ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a recess and for Mr Morawiecki and Minister Niedzielski to be brought into Parliament as a matter of urgency... Kaczyński, Kaczyński. ...because there's a pandemic situation that's been increasing for months and the government's been pretending nothing happened. The left hand today shows the rulers of the red card. A red card for not caring about Polish health care, for not doing anything about repairing health care. What do you mean they don't do anything? They make us wear masks. This is the numerator of shame that I'm putting in front of you so you can see - 60,000. disease, 1,000. the people who died. For four months, we've heard that the Prime Minister has been dissecting Coronavirus. He dismissed him so much that there are no hospitals, no ventilators, doctors complain, and Polish health care is in the swamp. All because of you. Wake up because Poland needs a government that will take care of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] Leave that card alone. Red propaganda.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u2	With a formal request from Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition requests that the agenda be supplemented by information from the Prime Minister on the state's preparations for a growing wave of coronavirus infection as well as the flu virus during the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen! No crisis can be managed at press conferences. Without a coherent government strategy, in chaos you will not be able to win against a pandemic, with a coronavirus that is increasingly dangerous, more aggressive and more powerful every day. That is why we demand reliable information, we demand a clear strategy. We want to know how the medical staff that saves the health and life of Poles and Poles was secured every day. We want to know where the respirators are paid for and not delivered. We want to know where the flu vaccines are. The government lost control of the pandemic because it was never prepared to fight the coronavirus, and the Prime Minister, busy with wars in the United Right, not so long ago said that the virus was in reverse, that there was nothing to fear that the situation was contained. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u4	Thank you very much. With a formal application by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to follow the article. Paragraph 184. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to make a formal request to change the way in which the discussion on the item is conducted: First reading of the Government's draft budget law for 2021, requesting a long debate. It has been a good tradition of this House for many years to discuss the state budget, to proceed on a draft budget law in the form of a long debate. We have a special time, a time threatening us with a crisis, a lot of needs, limited financial resources. All the more so at the moment at which we are present, it is good that this debate, with all the partialities present in Parliament, is complete, exhaustive, covering all the aspects of the budget that we are dealing with today. We fear as a club The Polish coalition that the form proposed by the Sejm Bureau does not exhaust these requirements. Therefore, I allow myself without any, Mr Marshal, malice, pinches to make this proposal, hoping that it is in the spirit of understanding, respect for the present situation that we will find consensus and we will change this debate to a long debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u6	Thank you. With a formal proposal from Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying formally to commemorate the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence after years of partitions. What then with this independence was done, how it ended, is of course another matter, but it is necessary to honor those who declared independence and prepared this independence for a long time. I would ask that this be just a resolution of the Bureau, not ours. Eventually, Mr. Marshal, maybe we should just ask Members to stand up, if that's okay. But what anniversary? October 7th. On 7 October Poland announced independence of course. The fact that she then gave power to some socialist is obviously not to regain independence. [[Some of the Members are up.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It'd be nice to know a story. The Regency Board.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u8	Thank you very much. There's still a formal conclusion. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u9	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask your marshal to put on the agenda a point on the draft tabled on 28 April by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, which is requested by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. Ladies and gentlemen! We proposed as a compulsory testing club for people employed in social services homes, 24-hour care facilities and medical entities. [[Applause]] This project was addressed by Marshal Witek in May to the Committee on Public Finance. There are all positions, there is the position of the Chief Medical Council, there is the position of the government, and the project has been frozen. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Yesterday we received dramatic data at the Senior Policy Committee meeting. At the moment, in Poland, the coronavirus is in 48 social services homes, affects 890 inhabitants, and 339 workers are infected. Eighty thousand. This case is absolutely urgent. Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a motion for you to complete the order of business with a print point 376. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u10	Thank you. High Seym! We've got five requests. We've got a request for a recess that we're about to vote on. Mr Paszik's request is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Szczerby's request - the time for submission was until yesterday at noon. 21. We will now vote on the request for a recess. This is a formal conclusion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering an adjournment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For-- 213, against-- 229, three stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union) (print No 186) and the Commission's draft resolution (print No 297), - Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2020 (Croatia Presidency in the Council of the European Union) (print No 565) and the Commission's draft resolution (print No 610), - Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints Nos 536, 537, 618 and 618-A), - Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy (prints No 240 and No 635), - concerning third readings of ratification drafts from prints 460, 487, 520 and 459. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the item on the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws (Print No 642). This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will now put to the vote the proposal to keep this item on the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of But it's preceded by... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of keeping on the agenda of the point: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and some other laws (Print No 642), will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 229, against - 206, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the offer. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the Minister of Health on the state of emergency hospitals and the state of their preparation for a possible second wave of SARS-CoV-2 infections - parliamentary club of the Left, - Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state's state of public finances, as well as financial situation in companies of importance for the economy of Poczta Polska S.A. and Polskie Linie Lotnicze As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of We are voting on the proposal for information from the Minister of Health on the current state of single-name hospitals. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For-- 216, against-- 227, holding off on one. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal concerning information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the state's state of public finances. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 215, against - 228, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This is print number 661. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hear 15-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle at the first reading of the draft government budget law for 2021. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection. Objection. I hear an objection. I will put this motion to the vote in the event of opposition. Who of the Members is in favour of the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to hold a hearing of 15 minutes' and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 231, against - 213, holding off on 2. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I would like to inform you that, despite the warning, Mr Braun and Mr Kulesza are still in the room without masks. These are the members of the Confederacy. Mr. Marshal... On the basis of the article. 22b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that they are in breach of the order established by the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. There's no such order, please in writing... You sent a completely different... Legal basis. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. Don't misinformed the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u11	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10.15, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Infrastructure Commission, at 3 p.m. 12.15, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u12	High Izbo! I would like to inform you that one more vote will be held in a moment. A formal proposal is made by the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should be treated as the Constitution of this House. We do not break it, we do not try to change it, and above all we respect it. We have been discussing at senior convention meetings for several days now, the Sejm Bureau, to respect each other in this House. In this House. The members of the Confederation deliberately break down the findings on how to proceed because it is dangerous in Poland. They set a bad example and do not respect the rules of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal! I am making a formal request to punish the members of the Confederation who do not stick to the findings and to exclude them from the deliberations in connection with the Article. 175. The House should respect such arrangements and Members of the Confederation should not be fooled. That's it. We are not different in this House. We're the same people. Let's respect each other. Mr. Marshal, let's get this over with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's against the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u14	I'm not giving you the floor. Negative, Mr. Marshal. Please provide the legal basis for your usurpation. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 661). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 661, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 420, 1 was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the budget law for 2020 (prints Nos 572 and 636). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft law amending the budget law for 2020 (prints 572 and 636). The first reading took place at the Sejm meeting on 17 September. The project was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance. The Public Finance Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 25 September. At the committee meeting, a general debate was held on amendments to the budget law for 2020 and the amendments tabled during the committee meeting were then considered. 34 amendments were tabled during the work of the Committee on Public Finance. Most of these amendments concerned changes in the budget for local expenditure, mainly for infrastructure, rail and road. These amendments were mainly tabled by the Left Club. Two amendments were accepted as a result of the vote: to shift expenditure within the supervision of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and to increase subsidies to the Industrial Development Agency for business aid. The other amendments were not accepted by the Committee on Public Finance. Finally, the Committee on Public Finance requests the adoption of a draft law amending the budget law for 2020 submitted in print No 636 and, at the same time, at the request of the applicant, submit one request from a minority. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u16	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! This time - as a representative of the club. I present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the revision of the budget. The draft law submitted by the government amending the budget for 2020 is a project characterised on the one hand by a great responsibility for state finances during such a great crisis related to the pandemic of coritos, but on the other hand - responsibility for the state of the Polish economy, jobs, as well as for securing the basic needs of families, employees, employers, pensioners, self-governments, as well as the good and safe functioning of state institutions. In my opinion, in the assessment of the club Law and Justice all these extremely difficult goals have been achieved. Of course, the amendment assumes a fall in budget revenue, but it is very valuable to increase both aid expenditure for entrepreneurs and investment expenditure, so that jobs can be maintained. This is the main objective of government action in terms of maintaining the state of the economy, stimulating the economy during the crisis caused by the pandemic. I am convinced that such a low increase in unemployment compared to the situation in other countries is the result of such an economic policy, increased expenditure on investment, continued social transfers. It would be hard to imagine how much unemployment could increase without these measures, and, as a result, it would result in a fall in budget revenue, and not just in budget revenue, because it is mainly about the income of the Social Insurance Fund, the Labour Fund or other wage derivatives... The natural consequence of the epidemic is the emergence of a significant deficit, but thanks to the fact that economic policy has been very responsible so far, the 2020 budget has been balanced... This is a significant security buffer, because then neither in 2020 nor in 2021. - because we already have a draft budget presented by the government for 2021 - no increase in the debt limit is envisaged above the constitutional threshold, but there was such a danger. This constitutional threshold, following an analysis of the draft budget for 2021, is of course not at risk, which is extremely important. On the other hand, the amounts are provided for all protective economic activities for entrepreneurs. Of course, it is very difficult to predict how this is going to be, how the pandemic is going to happen, what the economic impact will be, but at this moment this amendment is a very responsible amendment... Ha, ha, ha! ...agreeing all the difficult goals facing the government. The Law and Justice Club obviously supports this budget. At the same time, I would like to make a few amendments which will allow for more detail of expenditure, I am talking about small financial amounts, so to speak, which will make better use of the financial resources this year, because in other places these funds will probably no longer be used. These will be amendments which relate to the transfer in part: the Supreme Court, that is about PLN 0.5 million. Under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration - the transfer of expenditure between the Police and the Intelligence Agency - PLN 10 million, similarly between the Police and the Internal Security Agency, for IT security, also PLN 10 million. A very small amendment concerning the internal transfer within the expenditure of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice is a transfer to pension expenditure. In addition, an amendment that will result in the payment of compensation [[♪ The bell ♪]] for losses suffered by national parks as a result of the pandemic, due to a smaller influx of tourists and a decrease in the level of the economy in these parks. This increase in subsidies to national parks in the total amount of over PLN 5 million, of course broken down by national parks. We are making these amendments, but the Law and Justice Club will support and support this revision of the 2020 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u18	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you that in January you announced a great success, the 2020 budget was to be a budget without a deficit. We said then that this success has a propaganda dimension, because you spend tens of billions of zlotys outside the budget. You have also overestimated your income by typing into it the effects of the seemingly discreet actions. Today, the aisle comes out of the bag. The deficit of the state budget is to be PLN 109 billion. Tax revenues will be 36 billion lower. It is worth noting that the decline in VAT revenues is much higher than the expected decline in GDP. The VAT gap is growing, which means that between fairy tales you can insert your story of success in the fight against frauds, with the VAT mafia. This decline in income, by the way, is largely a consequence of your inability and omissions. One example: 5 years are underway on-line invoice register, which was supposed to bring 3 billion a month. This, a nomen omen, is the 36 billion zlotys missing today. What do we have on the spending side? 73 billion - as much as spending increases. You're saying this is COVID countermeasures, that it's business support and investment expenditure. But that's a lie. 57 billion of these 73 have nothing to do with the epidemic. In vain, there is a clear increase in healthcare expenditure or support for entrepreneurs, because they are not here. There is also not much in this amount for investments, because only 3.4 billion. We've got another witchcraft, though. The funding of the Solidarity Fund is not intended for this year, but for the next year's payments of 13 and 14 pensions. The place for this expense is next year. It's not financial engineering anymore, it's ruining the state, it's obviously manipulation. [[Applause]] Nearly 3 billion are spent on the army, intended, in fact, for advances for future deliveries, but from foreign entities it seems, because it is not the Polish companies that provide weapons for the Polish army. Nor will you spend this year on the financing of railway lines, and transfer these expenses to the next year. That's really spoiling the country. At the same time, this greater budget expenditure is accompanied by enormous appropriations spent outside the budget. As a result, the debt of the public finance sector is growing dramatically. When we look at the draft budget for 2021, this debt will exceed PLN 1.5 trillion. That's an increase of 475 billion in two years. It's more than a year's tax revenue from the State. The pace of debt growth is really shocking, and as we would have counted it well, half of the debt falls to the PiS government - for 2005 and 2007 - and the current governments, symbolic of a total of 8 years. No one in Europe is in debt as fast as Poland. The structural deficit, the deficit cleared really is the highest in Europe. This revision of the budget is unfortunately a milestone towards Greece. And that's not step one, because I'll remind you that your governments started by changing the stabilizing spending rule. December night 2015 - you changed inflation parameters, 30 billion more. The next steps are discretionary income. You have attributed your propaganda activities to an increase in tax revenues, increasing spending by another billion zlotys. The growing VAT gap and the decline in VAT revenues in relation to the original plan prove that we are dealing with an absolute failure of your actions here, but despite these changes, the rule was still upon you, and in the years 2018 and 2019 you started the process of circumvention of the rule, moving expenditure beyond the budget and the public finance sector. The Solidarity Fund is a good example of this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're on a straight path to a 60% constitutional prudential threshold. We hear that the Minister of Finance will cut this corset, that it must be cut, that the constitution does not specify how we count this limit, so we expect that he will try to adjust this method of counting to his needs. But let me put it at the end: breaking the thermometer doesn't mean falling the temperature. PiS will prove to us that public finances are safe, but that's not true. Well, thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the club... I've got corrections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u20	Oh, yes, I'm asking for corrections. Thank you, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Tomasz Trela will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, We know that what was meant to be balanced is a big lie. He probably knew that. Prime Minister Morawiecki, when he stood here in January and told stories to Poles and Poles, told stories to MEPs and Members that this was the first historic budget, which is a sustainable budget. 110 billion zlotys is your sustainability. And I'm sure it wouldn't be the worst thing to do in a time of great health crisis, a big economic crisis, we're making a budget deficit, but we have to answer the question of what we're spending this money on. Of these 110 billion zlotys, a small amount goes to the fight against these two crises: the health crisis and the economic crisis. I'm asking a question today. I wanted to ask this question to the Prime Minister, I wanted to ask this question to the Minister of Finance. How many more cases of Coronavirus, how many more people must die so that you can see that health protection in Poland is underfunded? There's over 3,000 today. cases, more than 70 people are dead, and the revision of the budget goes on to the agenda and it is considered that there is no problem. But the problem is in the army - you have to add 3 billion zlotys to the fanaber of President Duda, Minister Błaszczak, money you can't spend this year. Fanaberie - you have to add money to the police, more than PLN 1 billion, without seeing that there is an economic crisis and you have to save small entrepreneurs, those who employ people. At first reading, we threw the rescue wheel and tabled dozens of different amendments: these big ones, these small ones, the regional ones. You rejected all the amendments. But that was two weeks ago. Maybe today, in the age of what is happening, in the time that no epidemic has expired, no health crisis has passed, only he is powerful and this second wave is a fact, you will understand the proposals and ideas of the Left, who wants to socialize this budget and 10 billion zlotys from this amendment are dedicated to health care activities, precisely for activities related to Polish local governments, those local authorities that are on the first line of fire, activities related to helping small entrepreneurs, with education that today needs funding, because there is remote teaching and schools are not suitable for this and have no money for it. Maybe you'll understand. That is why I, on behalf of the Left Parliamentary Club today, will make such amendments and hope that we will discuss them at the meeting of the Finance Committee. However, in preparing for this discussion, for this debate, knowing that it is to be 15 minutes long, I have prepared for myself your achievements and your achievements, which really drained the budget, and you pass next to them indifferently. Today, citizens should know what would have happened if the PiS hadn't ruled. Well, there would be no scandal of Minister Szumowski and there would be no 100 million PLN spent on masks, respirators, which never reached Poland. There would be no transfer of PLN 2 billion to public media. There would be no SKOK scandal where the Bank Guarantee Fund had to spend, it had to pay over PLN 4 billion. There would be no GetBack scandal, which in total cost PLN 2.5 billion. There would be no CBA scandal, where the cashier of PLN 10 million was driving almost a wheelbarrow from the office, which is to lead the fight against corruption in Poland. Not to mention that Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Sasin welcomed a plane that carried medical equipment for over PLN 5 million to protect our citizens, which was never useful. But there's still a famous Toruń affair. I do not know if citizens know: PLN 165 million of public money for your colleague, the father of Director Tadeusz Rydzyk. These are just some cases and examples of how money was spent that could be spent on those who need support. And today the citizens of our country should answer the question whether they prefer PLN 2 billion to public media, in which they are told that everything is well, citizens do not feel threatened, the country is wonderful, wonderful and there is no crisis, whether they prefer to allocate PLN 2 billion to health care, higher pay for doctors (the bell), the purchase of equipment, respirators or even the expansion of the medical base in our country. Thank you very much. The question is rhetorical, the answer is very simple. I hope that your second reading will give you a reflection. In your hands, Marshal, I'm making amendments to the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u22	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Czesław Siekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! It has been a few weeks since our plenary debate on the revision of the budget. And then I talked about numbers, and I'm not going to repeat them today. I want to draw attention to other areas of the problem. The situation is so dynamic that today we are looking with much greater concern and concern, because we have a second wave of pandemic, which is getting bigger every day. The deteriorating health situation of our society, the avalanche increase of diseases - this will affect the economy, public finances. We may not repeat the lockdown in the spring edition, but today it is difficult to predict what will happen in our social and economic life. Let me put the basic question: Have the past time been used to properly prepare for the arrival of the second wave of pandemics? After all, it was widely anticipated, not only by experts. We've lost a few months. First of all, we put the presidential elections first, leaving out a number of activities related to the preparation for the fight against the coronavirus related to the restructuring of the economy. The government stopped working, there were no meetings of the Council of Ministers because everyone was campaigning. Then came the time for a vacation, maybe for the rulers a little shorter, but after all, the reconstruction of the government had to be taken care of. Coalition discussions were dragged forward rather than working to prepare for the fight against the coronavirus and to adapt the economy. Technically, we've had a government since yesterday, but we haven't heard about his programming at such an important moment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It has been announced that the budget adopted for 2020 is a sustainable budget for the first time. But reality was a little different. Hidden deficit - depends on how to count it, but I think it amounted to PLN 40.50 billion. The amendment we are discussing has opened up new opportunities as a stabilising expenditure rule has been suspended. As far as the proposed deficit is concerned, it has not been described exactly what is involved in it. The revision of the budget adopted the principle that anything could be done in 2020 because the budget is open. It is true that most countries are increasing their debt, but not on the same scale as in our country. The key question is: How will these measures - in the form of debt-taking measures, liabilities that will pay off future generations - be used to return to growth? The idea is that the economy should be able to generate resources to repay this debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak in the second part of the speech of the parliamentary club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Unfortunately, this revision of the 2020 budget and the project prepared for next year are being created completely in isolation from the realities of everyday life, from today's realities. Not further than yesterday, the Minister of Health, together with the Police Commissioner, announced a zero tolerance programme in terms of non-compliance with sanitary requirements related to the reduction of the effects of the epidemic. In parallel, the draft amending budget for this year brings the police, which is to implement this programme, over PLN 14 million and transfers these funds to cars and other expenditures to CBA. Well, there's been a misunderstanding. It is a complete detachment from reality and reality that we have today in Poland. And that's supposed to be coincidental and somehow intertwined. There is still time to reflect on this law to really adapt to the needs and requirements that the day brings us. Unfortunately, we don't see that kind of will, which is a shame. On the other hand, with regard to the work on the budget for next year, this is the last bell to really take into account the needs that reality is making today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz will speak first on behalf of the Confederation's Circle of Members. You're welcome. Please, sir, put on a mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can explain first why I'm not wearing a mask. Why are you putting other parliamentarians at risk of contagion, right? Is that what you want to explain? Well, as for the decision that Marshal Terlecki and you are calling for, yesterday we asked for this decision in writing and we got it. It reads: the Sejm Bureau decides unanimously that the Members present in the Chamber of the Sejm should wear masks with the possibility of exceeding the limit of 150 people in the Chamber. In case of non-respect of wearing masks, there will be a return to the limit of 150 Members in proportion to the size of clubs and circles. It was... The limit today is 55 people, not 150, so the conditions are not enough. Moreover, I have just counted the Members in the Chamber and there are 19 of them at this moment. I will point out, by the way, that according to the regulation in restaurants you can sit at a table and be without a mask, and in restaurants there is a much greater density than here. People sitting in a restaurant are more vulnerable than you are here, so it's selfish to put their health above the health of an average citizen, or hypocrisy, because in a restaurant the state doesn't use masks either. We go to the restaurant voluntarily, and here we are at work. Today, however, we are talking about budgets - the previous and the next, and when we look at the projects of these budgets, there are many devils in their details, but there is no need to look at them. for details to see that both budgets are bad because they're funded on wrong terms. And what are the rules, not only emerges in detail, but emerges in the words used by the people who designed this budget. Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki, considering a reduction in one of the taxes, said that a reduction in this tax would cost so much and so many billions. For Prime Minister Morawiecki, a tax reduction is a cost, not a profit, but a tax reduction is a profit for people who will not have to pay hard-earned money, in such a high amount, to pay for the budget. As long as you don't change your mind until you realize that tax cuts and budget cuts are people's profits, not the cost, as long as taxes are rising. We already have 35 new taxes introduced by Law and Justice, and another will soon come into force. These principles which I am talking about, were said directly by Minister Ardanowski, who, among others. He was therefore dismissed. And he said this, calling the source of these principles by name: PiS, the party I trusted, the party that seemed right-wing, is based on Marxist principles. Not only Minister Ardanowski who was dismissed, but also Prime Minister Morawiecki said on one of the rallies more than a year ago: We can honestly say this - this thought, the working socialist thought, is deeply in the philosophy of Law and Justice present. Change your thinking, because it costs a lot for every Pole and when the Poles lose everything, then they will change you. It's a shame this good decision will cost them so much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u28	Thank you, sir. Before giving the floor to Mr Braun, I would like to inform you that, first of all, the Bureau's findings you referred to come from a week ago and not yesterday and today's Bureau. That's one thing. We asked for these arrangements, and we got them. Secondly, the restaurants you asked to mention are visited voluntarily, as you have rightly pointed out. Besides, I don't know the restaurants where he speaks from the platform, putting other people at risk of being infected. He's silent. What you gentlemen are doing is extremely selfish, and I wanted to tell you, and the lack of responsibility for others. And that's the worst part. Because the fact that you gentlemen are risking your own and your own families' lives and health is indeed your business, but you are risking the health and life of all of us, and that is irresponsible. You're welcome, Mr. Grzegorz Braun. No mask, of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u29	God bless you! Izbo Law! Mrs. Marshal! Please decide whether you wish to derive the principles of the High House from the law in which there is a hierarchy, a law and a law in the lower order, and those of the higher order under the basic law must not change, restrict, cancel on the basis of the writings, regulations, guidelines for these regulations and, with all due respect, the Sejm Bureau. You can't do that. You're acting illegally. So you are appealing to sentiment and emotionally trying to warm up a few gathered here so that they lynching the members of the Confederate circle to demand that we be excluded from the proceedings. Decide on the ground on which you stand: whether on the law or on the basis of emotion. As for the budget, you have here no more bombs, but the crater after the meteorite hit, the meteorite you brought to Polish soil. You have caused an economic, social, cultural, political disaster on the pretext of fighting a supposed pandemic. Release the nation from quarantine. Let the Poles work normally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And make money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u30	Thank you, sir. I inform you that, of course, we are acting on the basis of law, but also responsibility for the health and life of others. No, no, I'm not letting you speak. Thank you very much. No. Technically, Your Marshal, you are disinformed by the High House. Put your mask on. Goodbye. Seym... Your marshal manipulates facts. Don't mention it. Take the opportunity to keep your mouth shut. Let's get to the questions. I inform you that you have violated the peace and order of the High House and thus the article. 22b... Thank you very much. You know the consequences. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. As the first Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition. There isn't? Gadowski is, he is. Mr. President, really... Gadowski!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 25 September, the government signed an agreement with the miners on the decommissioning of mines. In the budget that we are talking about today, in its amendment, you assume almost PLN 1300 million in section 48 on mining. I wanted to ask you if these funds are already earmarked for the implementation of the agreement that the government has signed. When will the Central Pompoń Bolko, whose tasks are to be taken over by the Company for Restructuring of Mine, transfer its competence and will it be eliminated? What are you planning on doing about it? When will the assignment of the Central Pompoń Bolko Company for the Restructuring of Mine take place? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For years, a financial hole has been growing in the Social Insurance Institution, and specifically, in the Social Insurance Fund. The original version of the budget for this year provides for a contribution from the budget to the Social Insurance Fund of PLN 45 billion. According to the novel presented to the High House, this contribution from the budget - budgetary resources - will amount to PLN 57 billion, but that is not all, because in addition to this the ZUS will be allocated PLN 38 billion from the COVID fund. Together it is over 90 billion PLN. I would like to say that next year these expenses will be even greater, because the deficit in the Social Security Office is not the result of a pandemic, it is only partly the result of a pandemic, and mostly this is the result of your earlier decisions, which led to your sending people to early retirement without guaranteeing them sufficiently high pensions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask government representatives if they're like that in the courtroom... But, sir... ...what you're going to do to stabilise the financial situation of the Social Security Office and prevent the starvation pensions that millions of Poles are going through. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were 3,000. that day and there are dozens of deaths a day. In Silesia, the situation in health care is that there is already a shortage of places in hospitals infectious to patients with Coronavirus, so they are placed in ordinary hospitals, so that others in need of treatment cannot rely on them. Such a dramatic situation is in the health care sector. This is also the case with education, where there are much higher requirements in relation to the epidemiological situation as well as economic issues. These are obvious reasons why the budget needs to be revised and expenditure increased. What, on the other hand, does this government increase spending to the greatest extent? To the army. Not to health care, not to education, not to support the economy, but to the military. Really, what's in your head? Why is this government acting against the vital interests of Polish society? Is that because this is what special Polish-American relations are all about, that this is simply a racket that we have to pay Big Brother at the expense of health care, at the expense of education (the bell), at the expense of the Polish economy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know who will answer, but I would like to ask if you, when examining and preparing this revision of the budget, have identified the needs of two very serious areas of our country's functioning in an epidemic era. The first area is, of course, the area of health protection. Do you have a definition and diagnosis of how much money is needed in this area? Because that little drop in the sea of need is probably not enough. The second area I want to ask you is the area of education. Do you know and can you inform us how much money local governments have to add to the announced increases made to teachers by the Government of Law and Justice, the government that promises, implements and does not give money to local governments? I ask for two answers to these two questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Each day of October brings us new, appalling information about new infections or the dead because of Coronavirus. Only in the first seven days of October were 15 805 infected, and 279 died. Does the revision of this budget in any way respond to the challenges of the moment? I'm asking you how much money you've spent on health care workers to strengthen the provincial and district sanitary and epidemiology stations? How much money have you spent on health support, especially on launching new COVID beds? Finally, how much money did you provide to fight the pandemic? In Małopolska, since March, you have dedicated PLN 6 million to the fight against the epidemic of coronavir. It's just a shame. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's not a penny in this budget, but you're making pillows so you can keep making geszofts... Thank you very much, sir. ...that you've been doing in the last six months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u40	Thank you very much. And we'll talk about the Geshefs on the ethics committee. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u41	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be enough money for everything. You weren't supposed to owe us any more. It turns out you need to borrow PLN 110 billion to cover all expenses this year. Today we have a record of infections: 3,000. Will this money go to fight the epidemic, to support health care, to support health care doctors? No, this money goes to pay 13 pensions, coal mining, the police and the army, to the National Radio and Television Council. If you're spending money you don't have, it means you're increasing your debt. At the end of this year it will amount to PLN 1384 billion. This means that each Pole will have a loan of PLN 36 421. You owe our country the fastest in Europe. Do you think he's responsible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And do you realize that following this path leads to a Greek scenario? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u42	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, gentlemen. Make up your mind. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. Grammar's on the list. But he quit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u43	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of this year and last year, Prime Minister Morawiecki said it was a historic budget. The historical budget, because it was supposed to be balanced. And it is indeed a historic budget, because it will have the largest deficit in many, many years. Minister! I have a specific question. Please respond in writing. How much will the budget deficit be in 2020? Minister, I have a few more specific questions. Are you going to fund the local government? You put new responsibilities on them all the time, but there's no money on these responsibilities from the state budget. Let me just remind you that there's money, i.e. 2 billion PLN, on Polish Television and Polish Radio. Minister, wasn't it better to spend this money on local governments or health care funding? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If there is a coronavirus in the country, if we have 3003 cases of one day and 78 deaths, what should be a priority in the case of an amendment of the state budget? Against the coronavirus, of course. Fighting the epidemic, of course. Of course, securing the weakest, most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a deficit in this budget. It was supposed to be a year without a deficit, a budget without a deficit. There never was. PLN 110 billion. But what is the problem, ladies and gentlemen? The problem is not to prepare society and state for the autumn pandemic. There are 1 million cancer patients in Poland. There are several million older people in Poland with multi-morbidity. How many flu vaccines are there? Influenza vaccines were supposed to be a priority, part of the state strategy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They just don't exist. We ask why the security features of personal protective equipment, medical equipment and medicinal products are not included in this project, are not a priority of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Budget discussions often run alongside what it means for ordinary people, active, entrepreneurial, working hard every day, or seniors. Sometimes it is worth asking ourselves what this revision of today means for such people. Because this huge debt that generates the PiS today is going to hit those who work hard every day, not lazy people and non-workers, because of course they have their honorable place in the PiS policy and they're going to be fine. It is the active, entrepreneurial people who will simply pay the debt that PiS is making today. Moreover, this policy melts the savings of Poles and Poles. The inflation is 2,9, over PLN 100 billion printed by the NBP and the interest rate in the state bank is 0.01%. Every Pole, every Polish woman, every senior who has savings today, systematically loses them because of the Law and Justice policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is: Will the government come to mind, will they respect Poles and Poles, will it help them to save money and protect their savings? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget law for 2020 in Part 85: Voivodeship budgets are planned for 70 billion PLN. On the other hand, the draft amendment to the Budget Act, in view of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, provides for an increase of almost 2 billion in expenditure in this part. That's how it goes globally. When an increase in the amount of expenditure proposed for specific voivodships is reviewed, it turns out that in 11 voivodships there will actually be additional funds, while in the other five, i.e. Lower Silesian, Lubuskie, Opole, Silesian and West Pomeranian expenditure is planned to be reduced. In view of the above, I ask for an answer, preferably in writing, to the question: What is the reason why one voivodship is increasing budgets and another is decreasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u50	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Exactly 10 months ago, when Poland's 2020 budget was adopted in this room, we said from this speaker that the so-called. A balanced budget is a fiction that countries' creative accounting and spending outside the budget in other institutions makes a real deficit of the state budget. And now it turns out, with regard to the amendment you are proposing, that it will be PLN 109 billion by the end of the year. And please do not convince us, please do not convince Poles that the only reason for this huge deficit, which we have not had in this amount in 30 years, is only an epidemic. The fact that the deficit exists, we talked about it 10 months ago. I have a very specific question. I want to know what is the total deficit of the public finance sector in Poland, because economists say that it can amount to up to PLN 300 billion. And don't tell me we didn't say in this room, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that Polish public finances are going to disaster. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u52	Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u53	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you really want to revise the budget, correct the budget, then maybe it's time to leave the Treasury company alone. When are you going to end the program: the PiS family on your failed business management? Let me remind you that since the Ministry of State Assets has been operating, the value of the largest state companies has fallen by 22%, i.e. by PLN 57 billion. 57 billion PLN is half of what we spend on health care this year, and this is just losses until the pandemic, because this is another 5 billion PLN down. I'm just talking about listed companies, and there are thousands of state institutions all over the country just as inefficiently managed and loss-making just because someone belongs to just the right party. PLN 62 billion of losses - so that you can pay your managers' salaries. Let it go. You don't know economics, and society is paying more and more for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u54	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're talking today about an avalanchely growing deficit and ruined public finances, and there's not even a finance minister in the courtroom. This shows his true approach to managing public money. What needs to be done today is to declare zero tolerance, but to waste public money. We've been hearing, for five years, the propaganda of success, about how healthy public finances we have, and yet the crisis has completely exposed it. You have inherited a public debt of about PLN 900 billion, and at the end of next year it is going to amount to more than PLN 1500 billion, which is going to increase by about PLN 600 billion. This is the bill after five years of your government and a short crisis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where is the Minister of Finance and when will he answer all the questions we ask today? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u56	Okay, where's the finance minister... Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, where's the finance minister? Such an important debate, unfortunately, has no ministry at all. What do you mean, it's gone? Look at this. The revision of the budget introduces a number of changes to increase expenditure appropriations to be incurred in 2021 - social transfers, investment money - while the government does not secure the expenditure that is necessary this year. High Seym! Why doesn't the government secure resources for education, education? Doesn't the government care about Polish education? After all, local governments will not cover this huge budget hole, which concerns Polish education. Why is there no money in the revised budget for this purpose? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki said it would be a historic budget with zero deficits. It is historical, but with the largest deficit, over PLN 100 billion. You're saying this deficit is caused by a pandemic. What happened during the pandemic, we know-- soul scooter, hell is gone. You spent the country as you wanted, who you wanted, without a tender. And that's why I'm here, because every dollar in such a difficult economic situation is important. The Minister of Health told us on Friday that in October money for ventilators will be returned - I will remind you, it is about PLN 70 million. And there's a draft amendment to the budget bill for 2020, and I'm looking. I'm looking in income, I'm looking at where there's a return of 70 million zlotys, a refund from an arms dealer for ventilators, and I can't see. And I have a question for the Minister: why didn't you write it in if you're sure he'll give it back? I ask: Why isn't this money included in the budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The real deficit today is not 110 billion PLN and 300 billion, because the commitments made by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or the Polish Development Fund should be added to this. In addition, this year's budget also includes expenditure on 13th and 14th pensions and other benefits. So this amendment has really nothing to do with reality. It's just creative accounting. My question is specifically what the measures covered by this amendment are intended for. I also have a question, as it seems, rhetorical: Where is the Minister of Finance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u62	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's do it again. The budget deficit is to amount to more than PLN 109 billion in relation to the previously assumed zero deficit, but in reality this deficit will amount to PLN 300 billion. It includes the commitments made by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Polish Development Fund. In addition, next year's commitments - 13th and 14th pensions - are being transferred to this year. Instead of significantly increasing expenditure on health and education, 3 billion PLN will be added to the army. These amounts for the army spent in 2020 total PLN 52 billion. The debt of the public finance sector is growing dramatically, the VAT gap is growing. Explain to me why the Śląskie voivodship loses PLN 216 million. Explain to me how you will be paying future pensions if the population is getting older so quickly, the number of people on retirement benefits is falling [[♪ The bell ♪]] the number of persons who may make up those pensions and the amount of contributions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. I can't see. In that case, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On Monday in many places in Poland farmers visited parliamentary offices and parliamentarians. One of the topics of these meetings is a signal of a lack of funds for agricultural and livestock insurance. Let me remind you that these subsidies are 65% up to 1 ha and one farm animal. In the current budget there was 350 million PLN for this purpose, 150 million additionally generated. That's 500 million. That's still 100 million less than in 2019. Therefore, the parliamentary club left the amendment increasing the expenditure on compulsory insurance for farmers by PLN 250 million. This is what farmers were talking about at the meeting of the Agricultural Chamber in Słupca, at the meeting in Gniezno and in other Wielkopolska towns. Since it is a duty (the bell), the state cannot save on it. Thank you. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, Solidarity of the arms industry has announced strike ambulances in all arms plants in Poland due to the bad situation of this industry and the trace participation of domestic plants in the process of modernization of the Polish army. The Polish arms industry is ignored in many key programmes of modernization of the army, and the purchase of weapons for the Polish army in Poland is exclusively on paper and in the propaganda of the success of the Minister of National Defence. The trade unionists from Belma and Nitro-Chem electromechanical plants from Bydgoszcz, from my constituency, publicly claim that the money for arms purchases spent at the moment does not go to the Polish army. In this connection, I have a question: When will the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of State Assets meet with representatives of the industry? And second question: how much of the 3 billion zlotys, the biggest increase in this budget, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not for education, not for health care, but for the army, how many of these 3 billion PLN will go to the Polish armory? Thank you. I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u68	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u69	I don't know what kind of alibi the finance minister has that he's not coming to the Sejm because I don't see any reason why he's sending a deputy minister. And we're talking about securing Poles. This budget is a scandalous budget, 300 billion zlotys of debt, and you're looking for an alibi. We have proposed 3 billion PLN for health, because there is no more important thing for Poles than health and security during the pandemic period, and 2 billion PLN for local governments. And the state outrageously offers an additional PLN 10 million for CBA, which before... 25 million PLN additionally did not protect, did not activate the anti-corruption shield. $200 million was supposed to buy ventilators, and it's not there. The state cannot do the simplest thing: coordination of places in hospitals, let alone management (the bell) of finances. Thank you, Member. And 3 billion for the military. Thank you very much. Well, for God's sake, we don't need this... Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. Thank you, Member. We just need money to protect our health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u70	Mr Wojciech Saluga. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! What is the state's state of finances, it is best seen by every Pole, how he draws money from an ATM - most often the new two hundred, sometimes five hundred. You print money to power, ruining the state's finances, and you create giant inflation, inflation, which is a hidden tax that the poorest will pay by buying goods in stores. Not only do you print, but also the NBP buys public debt for this printed money, buys government bonds. I would like to ask: What is the condition, the size of these concentrated bonds in relation to what was done the year before and the year before? Because it's an outrageous act that you generate debt for the printed money and you buy another debt with this debt, you roll debt. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke of a balanced budget, the first in history. We followed and said that this budget was not balanced. And today I have no satisfaction for this reason, because the fact that you are admitting that there is more than 109 billion zlotys missing today shows something else - that the truth is much worse, that there are two or three times more funds missing in this budget. This is one element, part historical. Two. If you want to modernise this budget in a sense now, let's see where the challenges are today. The first, most important challenge in my opinion, is health care. We know we have a record number of people and dying and sick people. The second element is entrepreneurs - we lose jobs. The third - where [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there support for local governments? And four for education. As for what you're proposing today... Thank you very much. ...you're going towards Greece. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u74	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u75	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During the debate at the level of the Committee on Public Finance and during this debate, a statement on state debt was made on several occasions. To understand this situation, you need to recall the history of the public debt of PDP over recent years. In 2007, when the Law and Justice ended governments, public debt amounted to PLN 527 billion, i.e. over 2 years government debt increased by PLN 60 billion, resulting in an annual increase of PLN 30 billion. Later, the PO-PSL coalition took over for eight years. And in 2015, at the end of the PO-PSL government, the public debt rose to PLN 877 billion. So it's increased by 350 billion... Thank you, sir. That gives an average increase of 88 billion a year. Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. And that's the scale. Comparing the economic situation and public debt... Thank you, sir. Time's up. ...in a world pandemic period until the normal economy is unfair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u76	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party. There's no envoy? In that case, the list of MEPs was exhausted. Minister Sebastian Skuz will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to answer questions that directly concern matters relating to the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. The first question concerned the recapitalisation and the allocation of additional resources to mining. Of this... billion 300... 879 million are funds for the recapitalisation of SRK. As far as I am concerned, these measures are also secured to take over this pumping plant that you have been asking about. The second thing is the Social Insurance Fund. I would like to point out that 38 billion are measures related to macro decline and an anti-crisis shield for entrepreneurs. In addition, I would point out that there was no reform of the OFE in 2020 and that these funds were also not included in the budget. However, it should be noted that the valorisation of pensions is proposed in 2021. The amount to be allocated for this is PLN 9.6 billion. A lot of questions were about strengthening health care. I would like to point out that in the COVID fund for this task is the planned amount of PLN 10.1 billion, it is about additional funds precisely for COVID activities. In the next year's budget, health expenditure is also increasing and the percentage laid down in the Act will be implemented, i.e. 5.3%. As regards the issue of local expenditure, I would like to point out that next year the subsidy is growing by PLN 3.4 billion, and this year an additional PLN 12 billion from the COVID Fund, the Government Local Investment Fund will be sent to local government units. Questions were also asked about issues related to the strengthening of health services. This year around 100 million went out of the reserve to strengthen the health care system. This reinforcement will continue in the part of the Minister of Health in 2021. In addition, the central bank issue: I pay attention to the issue of central bank independence and its policies, but a tool so-called. Qualitative easing is often used not only by the National Bank of Poland, but also by the European Central Bank or by the Federal Reserve of the United States. What is the deficit in the public finance sector? Currently we estimate this, including the PFR and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego funds, at around 11% gross domestic product for that year. The next question also concerns questions related to education. As I said, the resources this year and next year for the 6% increase for teachers were provided. There was also a question of reimbursement for the purchase of ventilators. I wouldn't want to serve the Minister of Health here. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that revenue is only a forecast, so when these measures appear, they will simply affect the state budget and thus reduce the deficit. There was also a question of increasing the resources for agriculture. I must stress that in the revision of the budget law, agricultural measures increase by about PLN 3 billion: about PLN 1.5 billion in the national part and about PLN 1.5 billion in the EU part. From the defence funding measures we have to assure the Minister of Defence that the vast majority of these measures, because about 2/3, will go to national companies. There was also a question of small amounts related to the transfer to the Central Anti-corruption Office. High Seym! The amendment represents an increase in the resources in the part of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration (the bell) by around 1600 million, so the amount of around 14.15 million represents a small fraction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft Electronic Service Act (Prints No 239 and No 598). I ask Mr Dariusz Stefaniuk to submit a report to the committee. The Member will present them remotely. Do we have a connection yet? We'll wait a little longer. Okay, one minute, then. You're welcome. Wait a minute. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u79	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft Electronic Service Act No 239 entered the Sejm on 6 February 2020, at the 10th meeting of the Chamber on 15 April. His first reading took place. The document was then dedicated to further work in the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. May 4th this year The committee appointed an emergency subcommittee for its consideration, which I had the honour of chairing. The subcommittee worked on the project during nine meetings. The draft law introduces new rules for the delivery of correspondence by public entities to public entities as well as to non-public entities, including natural persons. The aim of the project is to reduce the delivery time of correspondence as well as to enable the handling of official matters at a distance without having to go to the post office of the postal operator. Especially in times of pandemics, we see how Poles have changed their habits so far. At a time when we use our phone to buy airline tickets, we pay in the shop, students and students have classes online, the contact of the citizen with the official remains the same as almost 100 years ago. The proposed solutions assume that e-service will be legally equivalent to sending a traditional registered letter, among others. with confirmation of receipt. Electronic correspondence, i.e. e-mails, will replace previous correspondence between all state institutions, offices and courts, between power and citizens and companies, of course by means of a specially created register. This is due to issues of security, integrity or confidentiality of correspondence. A new public register will be created to introduce these innovative solutions. an electronic address database. Initially, a national operator, i.e. Poczta Polska, would be responsible for organising the entire correspondence process. This is also due to the fact that the project introduces so-called. hybrid service. Persons sending a traditional letter to the institution are guaranteed that it will be scanned to the system and sent to the institution. The same is true in the opposite situation. If the citizen wishes to receive correspondence only electronically, when it is sent in paper form, the operator of Post Polska is responsible for scanning and sending this correspondence electronically. Of course, the entry into force of the project requires the adaptation of dozens of other laws. Therefore, the long vacathio legis, which results from the specifics of subsequent institutions. Representatives of the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Finance, Climate, Development, Infrastructure, Justice and Administration participated in the work of the subcommittee. 24 minority applications have also been submitted. The Commission adopted a draft amendment act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I have the honour to present to you the position of my club regarding the draft Electronic Service Act (Prints No 239 and No 598). The bill on electronic services is a difficult and complex law, not only introducing new technical solutions, but also amending several dozen laws on the way documents are delivered. The solutions proposed in this act are a milestone in the digitalization of Poland. Thanks to this law digitization enters new, previously unregulated or poorly digitised areas so far. The solutions introduced will apply to the most important administrative, civil and criminal procedures. What are the benefits of the proposed changes? Firstly, the solutions adopted will ensure that all public and private entities, in particular individuals, can use one of their own e-service addresses, which can be used for correspondence with all other providers of electronic services. Secondly, they will enable the so-called. the location of the service process by enabling the sending and receiving of correspondence from any place, which will result in the need to inform about the physical change of the place of stay. Thirdly, the time needed to deliver letters, applications, applications and answers will be reduced. In addition, the arrangements provide service parties with effective legal proof of service, as in the case of registered mail. They will also ensure that digitally excluded persons, or those who are not yet ready for electronic communication, are allowed to use the currently available mail. I'm moving on to other changes in the project. I must start by saying that the observation of reality in recent months has shown that the dominant principle of dealing with matters through letters, written form, has largely become obsolete. The amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure provided for in the draft law therefore deserves special attention, which will initiate the direction of subsequent legislative amendments aimed at introducing the so-called. digital default in contacts with the administration. The amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure introduces equivalence of letters for dealing with matters whether they are written and recorded electronically or on paper. In addition, the basis for automatic handling of cases was created through the use of new tools, i.e. electronic identification means and qualified electronic seals of bodies. In view of the summary of my statement, I would like to stress that the failure to adopt this law would leave the way of service based on traditional, letter service and using different electronic systems and addresses. The citizen or entrepreneur will still have to remember to send a letter to a specific office, to inform about any change of address, many logins, passwords for different information systems and different electronic addresses. Finally, what is equally important, there will not be such an expected acceleration of the exchange of correspondence with public administrations or courts. Let me stress once again - recent months have shown that computerisation and digitisation are not just elements of increasing public sector innovation. It is a necessity and, at the same time, an opportunity to carry out public tasks for citizens in a continuous and undistorted manner. This challenge of the time, which is to ensure the smooth operation of the state now and in the future, corresponds to the draft act on electronic services. In view of the arguments put forward, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill. At the same time, I wanted to pass on to your marshal an amendment to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u82	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Michał Grammar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u83	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill really creates a new quality. I would like to complete the thesis of my honourable speakers presented after a few months of committee work and subcommittee work. Let me just mention the environmental aspect of this whole project. The transfer of official service to the digital world is a huge environmental benefit. This is the benefit measured in millions of saved cars kilometers, in tens of thousands of saved paper rations. The opposition's right, however, is to criticize, so it's worth it. mention that the law is still not free from defects and questionable elements. A lot of controversy is aroused, for example. the requirement for payment of an electronic service service. Today this service is free and it's doing great. We are not convinced by the argument of the Ministry indicating the need to secure Polish Post's revenues. I'm going to talk about the role of this company today. During work in committees, there was also no improvement in the controversial issue of how the law entered into force. The law is still to enter into force - I would call it - on instalments, gradually covering further areas, successive ministries and further state institutions. This lack of symmetry also caused the legitimate comments of the Sejm legislators. We should all be equal to the law: citizens, public institutions and market operators. The timetable for entry into force of the rules for the years to come is quite strong and quite serious in distorting this equality. The Act builds and consolidates the monopolistic position of the Polish Post until 2025. This is not the case for the European eIDAS regulation, which regulates digital communication. This also has nothing to do with the principle of free competition on the market. Once from this stand I had the opportunity to talk about how the rulers used Poczta Polska S.A. to conduct an unfair election campaign. In this respect I conducted parliamentary control, trying to determine what fate happened to the personal data of hundreds of thousands of Poles and Poles transmitted to Poczta Polska after the famous e-mail to local governments from 23 April this year. The data was transferred illegally. The post office claims that it was done at the order of the Prime Minister, and in the opinion of the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw, the head of the Polish government had no right to issue such an order. The guilty today, of course, is not. It is also difficult to figure out what happened to the records passed to the post office by 532 Polish communes. It is known that the data was processed, not entirely known by whom and how. And among others. Therefore, the idea of identifying this state-owned company as an operator designated for the next 5 years raises such deep doubts. Of course, it is no less important to maintain certain overriding European values: the principle of fair competition, the principle of equal market access, transparency or non-discrimination. When considering the role of the designated operator, it is worth stressing once again the need to secure the service so-called. hybrid service. It's nothing more than printing out an electronically transmitted package. I think that's the weakest point in the whole system that describes the bill. This requires the physical involvement of the postal worker. Will and how will our right to privacy be guaranteed? We hope that this issue will have a precise regulation in the lower order. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of minority proposals, the Civic Coalition Club will propose modifications limiting the Polish Post Monopoly. However, the club is aware of the importance of this law in building the foundations of a digital state, which is why we will not oppose the adoption of these rules. As an expression of goodwill, using the last few dozen seconds I have left, in agreement with the legislators, I would like to make one more amendment, which is to delete point 14 of Article. 83. This is a strictly legislative amendment, which removes duplication of changes in the same legislation. If we hadn't submitted it and accepted it, the bill would probably have returned from the Senate with one more change to consider. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski will speak on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Electronic Service Act can be mentioned by quoting the individual provisions of this really complicated law, using the technical and legislative new language. You can also try to talk about it and respond to its records, to this, let us remind you, government presentation, simpler language. Let me try the other method. The Electronic Service Act is, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more than an electronic communication manual. It is information and instructions on how to send and receive correspondence and how to prove that someone has sent or received correspondence - correspondence sent electronically. At the same time, High Izbo, the foundation of an e-state, a state which is much more efficient, which operates on the basis of the electronic circulation of documents not only between the various bodies, but above all on the interface between the state and the citizen. Oh, that's cool. If it looks that good, we would like to ask how the work on this law was going and, above all, we would like to ask, High Izbo, what the authorities of the government would say. Where is the government that should represent this submission? I had the opportunity to work in the subcommittee set up to draw up this bill. It was a difficult job, because it was primarily about agreeing the positions of Parliament's legislators with the successive high officials of government administration. I would like to express my regret that there is no representative of the government administration responsible for computerization, i.e. the Minister responsible for these matters, in this Chamber during the discussion on fundamental - and everyone, regardless of the party colours, underlines - a law that is to regulate relations between the citizen and the state again. Matthew Morawiecki. Yes, yes, recently Mateusz Morawiecki, perhaps rightly, except that he is Prime Minister, also became Minister of Digitization. Fortunately, Minister Andruszkiewicz is with us. Welcome. It remains regrettable that there is no former Minister of Information Technology, Minister Zagórski. Nor is Minister Wanda Buk with us, who resigned in due course in the Ministry of Digital Affairs. She piloted this very difficult and demanding project. In a word, it is not only that there has been rotation on these key positions, which are to be dealt with by the government administration on this difficult project, that there has been the liquidation of the Ministry of Digitalization itself. It's bad, ladies and gentlemen. I promise on behalf of the Left Club that we will monitor this project, because his, so to speak, legislative road will probably be over soon. The Left Club, your Marshal, will vote in favour of this project, but it is not crucial to pass even the best law. The implementation of this law is crucial. Here it comes, let me also mark this thread, the matter of vacathio legis. This is what one of my predecessors spoke of, rightly pointing out that it is divided into several incomprehensible stages for the public. At the end of the day, the bill isn't due to enter into force until nine years later. We have not decided, I am talking about the club of the Left, to make amendments that speed up the entry into force of this law, although there are important arguments and substantive and formal, only because we have seen the disorder in which this law is being conducted. I mean, the government side. I conclude my speech by calling on the government representative (the bell) to mobilise these forces and resources at your disposal and ensure that, after the legislative process, this project is implemented with due care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. We'll connect remotely. We've got a call. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law on electronic services. The project is in line with the expectations of the economy and society. It is the 21st century, and our offices use solutions from the 16th century. There is no doubt that it is necessary to change the way in which official consignments are sent and received and to end up with all the hated visas and stand in offices as well as in the post office. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that this is a very late step towards the future. This solution has been operating in Estonia, Denmark, France, Germany and the Czech Republic for years. Mrs. Marshal! My predecessors pointed out the advantages and disadvantages of this law. I would like to concentrate on the most important thing for Poles, i.e. on the trust that I would like to devote the rest of my speech to. High Izbo! It's been five years since the United Right took over Poland. I can't ignore the question of why once again it turns out that the government doesn't keep its own promises. The bill was to be implemented as early as 2019. This is the last of many examples of government omissions. Here I must mention, for example, the food holding company promised in 2016. If it were implemented, today we would not have a problem with galloping prices in shops. I must mention the law on the extension of agricultural holdings, which is supposed to have been adopted, and then we have numerous auctions of farms, or the collection of tragic harvests on farms of farmers of the ASF pandemic. Why did the government, and precisely the Ministry of Digitization, fail to keep their promise, made repeatedly on the occasion of the process of the digital megastasis, in which the standard of electromagnetic radiation was raised 100 times? The Minister of Digitisation has repeatedly stressed that citizens need to be guaranteed a sense of security, a sense and awareness of the state's control, and if we can talk about any threat, these threats are under control. I would like to remind you that in November 2019 the Law on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks entered into force. The Minister of Digitisation proposed a provision concerning the launch of an information system for electromagnetic radiation installations. The Minister of Digitisation has repeatedly persuaded parliamentarians and the public that this system will enable every citizen to check the level of electromagnetic radiation on the Internet in their homes and workplaces. The system was supposed to dispel doubts whether telecommunications stations exceed the permissible - I will remind you, currently 100 times raised - standards of the border electromagnetic field in Poland. I would like to remind you that this took place with the strong opposition of the scientific community in Poland expressing their opposition in numerous opinions presented to the Ministry of Health during the public consultation on the regulation. Unfortunately, up to now, the system is not accessible to citizens. In addition, the Act - anti-crisis shield 2.0 in April this year. environmental authorities and telecommunications operators themselves have been exempted from the need to measure electromagnetic radiation in residential and commercial premises, thus depriving the State of any control over this key environmental element for citizens' safety. It seems that the password: no control, radiation hardens - from the control of NIK on the activities of public administrations in the field of protection against electromagnetic radiation from mobile devices - is now more valid than a year ago. In summary, the proposed solution is very good, and it is good that it has been implemented, although it should have been implemented years ago. But there is a great deal of concern about the confidentiality of sensitive information provided, because the situation can happen again - and the government, as it says it will, is just saying it. Our confidential data will be badly secured, and the system will work well, but like other previously implemented systems, it will only work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Confederacy wheel, Mr Michał Urbaniak. You're welcome. For the speaker, too, in the mask, sir. I would like to ask you to put on a mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u89	There are almost no people in front of me, so I don't think I can infect anyone. Mr President, I ask you very much to put on a mask. Dear Marshal! [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I would like to ask you very much to put on a mask. Don't spit on the table because you're spitting on the table. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are breaking the arrangements for wearing a mask in the sitting room. The Bureau's findings. Once again, I ask you to put on a mask. In that case, in connection with the violation of the order of the Sejm's sitting, I inform you that you have broken the article. 22 Rules of Procedure and there are consequences. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] There you go. Thank you kindly. Yeah, we're working on an electronic service project now. It is high time for such a project to go to the Sejm at all, it is good that this is happening, so the Confederation applauds this fact as much as possible. However, it should be noted that the Ministry of Justice was preparing its own project. So the question is, will this not interfere with what the Ministry of Justice has been working on? Well, I'm gonna allow myself the time I have here on the speaker, and it's extremely limited today, to use on a slightly different point. Today, farmers are protesting all over the country and they are against five. The applicant for an anti-cultivation law, Minister Puda, has just become Minister of Agriculture. Nor has it presented the economic impact of the regulations in place. The draft law was not consulted with farmers, agricultural organisations and the negative consequences of the introduction of these provisions were not foreseen. The authors of fives for animals, giving a month to close production and vague claims of compensation, are de facto eliminating the entire industry. Let us remind you that the breeding cycle lasts 2 years. After the entry into force of the law we also ban ritual slaughter in Poland, both cattle and poultry. Our demand for the internal, Polish market is so small that at this moment the business in Poland loses its right to be in Poland. I would also like to remind you that export markets, acquired over the years, will suddenly be closed to us. We are also talking about markets in the European Union. The ban on slaughter is the elimination of Polish meat: poultry is 58% , and beef - 30%. This is approximately PLN 6.9 billion of exports that we can lose now. The Government of the United Right also wants to deprive itself of tax revenue at this point. Poland as the largest poultry producer in the European Union sold 855 thousand. t poultry from religious slaughter. Exports of beef were the main direction for this industry - 80% What we produce was sent abroad, from which 1/3 was meat from religious slaughter. $350,000. households may lose their income at this point, which is what the United Right does. Let us remind you that since 2014. Poland is also dealing with the ASF problem. Many farmers have changed into cattle farms. They won't have anything to change to tonight. Some of the plants will have to close within a month, because this is due to the Polish law that you want to announce. I think the consequences of the country's unforeseen effects are a sharp fall in the price of cattle buying-in, the buying-in of live animals - up to 30, 40% And the bill isn't here yet. The ban also effectively deprives bank loans - banks are afraid of what will happen in the markets related to farmers. The crisis will also affect the market for cereals, feed, paid waste disposal, fish processing, milk processing, meat, for example. There was also food for the minks that you want to move now - it turns out - somewhere abroad. I mention this because you ignore the protests of the people you're just taking away the bread from. At this point, we know that these people can already do their business because the United Right thinks it's better to introduce leftist law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u90	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. As the first question will be asked, remotely, by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! The club is called Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to ask you why Law and Justice don't keep their election promises again. Law and Justice in 2015 and recently won the elections by talking about judicial reform, and in this law judicial reform is due to enter into force in 9 years' time. Why do Poles have to wait nine years to be able to normally contact the prosecutor's office, the courts? Why is the reform so crucial for the Polish society put aside again for perhaps never, because 9 years is a very long wait for justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u92	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, as the formula for service will in principle provide a quick and convenient way of communication between citizens and offices. However, I have a question about the so-called. public hybrid service. The Act states that people who are not yet ready to exchange electronic correspondence for various reasons will be able to receive a traditional letter delivery thanks to the hybrid service. To put it simply, a letter in electronic form will be delivered to the post office, and this letter will print it and deliver it in paper form. How will the protection of confidentiality be ensured in this case, while ensuring the security and confidentiality of information? Aren't we dealing with (the bell) with the conflict with the provisions of the GDPR Personal Data Protection Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u94	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question: "Why will the digital service be paid?" What's the point? Today this service is free, it seems that it is just something similar to an email, sending a file. Where's the cost? How do you calculate costs? What makes this e-mailing cost money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've slept for at least four years. Today you offer Poles a bill that will enter for 9 years. You all say we're supposed to be equal to the law all the time. And here it turns out that different state institutions are not equal to the law. If you had introduced this law - needed, very needed - 4 years ago, gave vacathio legis lasting 4 years, all institutions and Poles would have prepared for this type of activity, for such tasks. And today, Minister, for nine years, you want to introduce what is simple, clear and legible. Minister! Why is there such a vacathio legis for the various entities of the State Treasury, the various public institutions that will be able to benefit from this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns Art. 20 laws. This article specifies when access to the service box is granted to entities other than the addressee. In fact, it is right - i.e. on the basis of a judicial decision or an administrative act. Using a separate alternative here makes sure that no other reason will cause access to my box for the wrong entity. However, it points out that, according to this provision, no one has to show any interest in accessing my box. No one has to justify e.g. a request for a procedure for granting such access. Moreover, the granting of such access is not subject to any time limits. How do you see the content of this provision in the context of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland specifying the protection of confidentiality of correspondence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a law that aims to use the latest technologies to improve the state. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. On the other hand, the question and concern are that the latest technologies and techniques are also being used to increase the etatism of the state's functioning. Hence my question and my concerns. Why, what is the justification that only one entity - Poczta Polska - is indicated precisely? Why should other operators normally operate on the market when it comes to service should not be allowed? That's the first question. The second is: How does the Ministry provide for the privacy of correspondence of persons to whom consignments will be delivered in hybrid form? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u102	Thank you very much. Last question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question, which concerns competition. Indeed, the situation is as follows: this law introduces a de facto monopoly on the electronic delivery market to one entity. He'll be privileged. My question is two things. First of all, why this monopoly? But the more important question is what happens next. What will be the lines of action to bridge the competitive advantage and ensure genuine competition in the electronic delivery market? In what directions will the government conduct these actions so that competition is a fact and Poles do not overpay? 'Cause they say you're gonna have to pay for it at all, for delivering an email. But the point is that Poles do not overpay for this service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u104	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask you to answer the questions raised by the Secretary of State of Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u105	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for really the substantive and very coherent cooperation on the draft e-service law, especially for working in the subcommittee specifically set up for this project, in the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. This work was running and running very smoothly. I think that this stage will still be ahead of us in order to continue this cooperation also on the proposals that we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen! Certainly the law introducing e-service in Poland is a revolutionary project, not an evolutionary one. This is what we are talking about, because the whole process of communication on the line office - the citizen will be transferred to the network, will be conducted electronically, via Internet. This, in our view, causes first and foremost that we will not only revolutionize the communication between the state and the citizen, as we all wish, of course, as we say in this Chamber. We want Poland to implement its objectives as soon as possible For example, a strategy for responsible development, which assumes universal digitisation of the State. In our view, however, this will also help to reduce bureaucracy in the future. But will we pay for e-mails? This, too, has been mentioned here, ladies and gentlemen. One of your fellow Members, I think Mr Szłapka, was talking about bureaucracy. I think that the targeted introduction of e-service, but also the wider digitalisation of offices, will also make the number of posts possible in a natural way, we hope, simply limited. But will we pay for e-mails? On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, while continuing, we also believe that it is very important to stress that we are so de facto staying at a stage that will allow for the slow but systematic introduction of these revolutionary ones, I remind you, changes. Therefore, we mark the vacathio legis, which was quite strongly criticized. We believe that, above all, these changes must be made robustly. We therefore want to prepare for them. We want you to be precisely prepared for them. This is also due to the fact that the various offices and institutions of our country have their own IT systems. We need to work to ensure that these systems, and that also includes this law, work coherently. We don't want to put up with them, we want to integrate them. That's our fundamental assumption. We want this law to put in place data security, as you also talked about. As the Ministry of Digitalization, and now the IT department, which will be incorporated into the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, we are of course concerned with data security. We are based, for example, on EU regulations, which are very strict in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we also want to introduce a de facto one electronic window for citizens, so that citizens simply have one window when it comes to contacting all the institutions of our country. I think we will work on this, and it is also in this law that we have included to join the commercial market. We all imagine in various ways that simply traditional, lettery, paper communication will be slowly eliminated. This is due to convenience, but also the care of the environment, the ecology. These are our very lofty goals that we all want, I think, to achieve above the divisions. This is also due to the spirit of time that we have before us. We're all going that way. Today Poland in this matter is catching up very quickly earlier, much earlier lost time. Ladies and gentlemen! Questions were raised here in the context of Polish Post. As you know, Poczta Polska in 2016 was appointed an operator by the Office of Electronic Communications. This term of office of Polish Post as designated operator ends in 2025. In view of this, we considered that from 2025 another choice of operator will be made in Poland, which will be able to provide electronic services in our country. All entities will be able to apply for this status. Will you have to pay for emails? Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the issue of entry into force, as I said earlier, the Ministry of Justice has reserved the deadline for which the Member has spoken. On the other hand, we want this bill to come in as soon as possible. I think, for example, in the context of communication with the Ministry of Justice, but also with courts in the field of the Civil Code, that this will happen much faster than in the year which is included as a vacathio legis in the Act. Answer the question. I would ask you not to interrupt. I answer questions regularly. But answer the question as to whether we will pay for the emails. But I didn't see you at the Parliamentary Speaker when you asked that question, so don't disturb me. But I listened to my colleagues' questions. I ask you very much to remain calm, sir. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Adam Andruszkiewicz: I listened culturally to your questions. I'd like to ask you not to bother me. Are we gonna pay for e-mails? Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Adam Andruszkiewicz: You will know the answers to all the questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't forget to answer the question. The fees to be indicated will result from the fact that the Treasury will bear the costs, which we have to compensate in some way. They're crazy. We're gonna pay for e-mails. On the other hand, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this law is definitely revolutionary in the context of the construction of an e-state. We will strive to ensure that our country is informed as soon as possible. Finally, thank you once again to the members of the subcommittee for this work. I also thank the Ministry of Digitalization and Minister Wanda Buk, who worked very hard on this bill. Thank you very much, Marshal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 42 hours 12 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws (print No 643). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to justify the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u107	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws, contained in print No 643. The changes are fundamental and evolutionary and are modelled on solutions that have been operating for 20 years in Estonia. We propose that from January next year the so-called. Estonian CIT, i.e. flat-rate from the revenues of capital companies. This is a way of taxing small companies, which guarantees maximum promotion of investments and minimum formalities when settling taxes. What is it? At present, income from economic activities is generally taxed at the time of its creation, i.e. accruals. This means that the taxpayer recognises the income at the time of the sale, even if it has not yet been paid by the counterparty. In the Estonian system, as long as profits remain in the company, it will not pay CIT. The tax will only appear if the profit achieved in the company is paid to the partners. The lack of tax and the leaving of funds in the company has two positive effects for it: firstly, it strengthens its liquidity and thus resilience to crises, gives it a kind of financial security cushion, and secondly, leaves it with financial resources to make investments. Unlike other tax reliefs, there are no restrictions here - the entrepreneur spends money on what he needs most. This is a way of settling, which is very cheap. The absence of a monthly, quarterly and annual payment of tax is also a lack of a number of obligations, and thus a considerable saving of time for companies. The taxpayer will not be forced to keep two separate records for tax and accounting purposes. He won't count tax and depreciation costs. It will also benefit from reporting facilitations MDR. The lack of a number of obligations means lower legal costs for companies. In Poland alone, without the help of CIT advisors only 20% of companies settle. There are three times as many in Estonia, over 60%. The settlement time of CIT is on average 5 hours per year, and in Poland almost 60 hours. In total, the Estonian system is a potential saving of almost 11 million man-hours spent annually by Polish companies to settle CIT tax. The economic effects of the reform in Estonia were very positive. The investment rate doubled over 4 years, consumption increased by 1.4% and GDP almost 3%. From a microeconomic perspective, debt decreased and company liquidity increased. In Poland, these results may be even better, although it would already be very successful for the Polish economy to achieve results similar to those of Estonia. Estonia was the first country to implement this modern way of taxation. Its route was soon followed by other countries, among others. Georgia and Latvia. From next year Poland will join this group of countries. The solution proposed by us is no different from its Estonian model. Tax settlement rules, so its simplicity, pro-investment... Minister, please put your mask on. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Of course. ...and cheapness, remain the same. In the first phase of the implementation of the Estonian system in Poland next year, it will be available to small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, I would like to stress that the conditions for using Estonian CIT have been very inclusive. Already in the first year of its operation it will be open to over 200,000. companies, i.e. more than 90% active capital companies active in Poland. Interest in this solution will be great, because Estonian CIT is a very attractive solution for investors. It provides not only the possibility to defer tax at company level, but also lower taxation at partner level and favourable tax settlement rules at the exit of the Estonian system. The project is the result of intensive consultation with entrepreneurs. In the course of government work, it was shaped to be as beneficial, open and accessible as possible to as many companies. Hence recent changes in the project, among others. double increase of the revenue limit from PLN 50 million to PLN 100 million, create additional incentives to invest in employment, to invest in human capital, as well as increase of funds for investments through the possibility to settle accumulated losses for 2 years back. The proposed changes will increase the volume of investment in the Polish economy, increase competitiveness and capitalise the SME sector. Entrepreneurs who suffer from a shortage of investment resources due to less opportunities to obtain external financing will benefit. This means that they cannot develop in line with their potential and are in a worse position when it comes to competitiveness. The new tax model will be a flexible tool for these companies to break down the non-financing barrier and even the chances of smaller businesses on the market. This will provide an impetus for the development of the economy as a whole. If the effects of CIT reform were in Poland such as in Estonia, it would result in an increase in employment by nearly 120 thousand. people with jobs that would be better paid (The Bell), resistant to economic crises and offered in dynamically growing companies. The proposed changes in the first year of application will reduce the revenue of the public finance sector by about PLN 5600 million. Based on Estonia's experience, only in the first 3 years of the new regulation has been adopted, while the proposed solutions are expected to improve the revenue of the public finance sector in the coming years. It is assumed that the changes will enter into force on 1 January next year. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Andrzej Noblet to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws, print No 643. The purpose of the introduced or modified legislation is to implement a new, pro-investment corporate tax system modelled, as the Minister has already said, on solutions already applied for 20 years in Estonia. The project proposes two alternative tax options on a new basis, without being able to combine them. The first option binds income to taxation with the categories of balance sheet law and involves changing the moment of the tax obligation. This is a lump sum on the income of capital companies. Option 2 introduces a special investment fund that allows for a faster settlement of the depreciation of fixed assets in tax costs, taking into account the existing tax rules. Both options are pro-investmental and thus growth-enhancing. The bill is addressed to a group of entrepreneurs, which has a weaker competitive position and less opportunities to obtain external financing for the implementation of the investment. They belong to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which want to pursue a pro-investment development strategy in particular through employment growth and systematic investment expenditure. In view of the lack of capital links, these companies face a barrier to access to finance. According to OECD studies, one third of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises fail to obtain the necessary debt financing. They cannot, as in the case of entities active in group capital, obtain funding from affiliated companies or obtain guarantees from group companies in order to obtain such funding from banking sector entities. This bill provides for amendments to five legal acts: the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Individual Income Tax Act, the Tax Order, the Accounting Act and the Tax Criminal Code. As regards the CIT Act, the new provision allows economic operators and at the same time agricultural activities or forest management activities to choose flat-rate taxation. Specific flat-rate taxation rules mean a significant change in the existing accounting rules. The proposed amendments provide for taxation of reserves and write-downs for taxable persons who have completed flat-rate taxation. The proposed changes to CIT include four tax bases: split profit income, hidden profit income and non-business expenditure, change income and net profit income. The PIT Act will retain the tax on corporate income at the time of the company's payment of profit and the income tax of individuals on the basis of the type of payment made by the company, e.g. dividends, interest, wages. The Accounting Act introduces an obligation to provide information under the financial statements on all income arising from hidden profits. In the Act - Tax Order, the proposal provides for changes in the scope governing the presentation of the tax liability. In the Act - Criminal Code, the draft provides for the tax liability of a taxable person who does not make a declaration to the company or lodges it on time. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u110	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Wojciech Saługa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! CIT may be Estonian, but the regulatory hell is definitely Polish. You spoke with such enthusiasm about Estonia just now, but when we read into this project, this Estonia is quite small. In Estonia, this solution is mostly common and very simple. In Poland it does not seem common because most companies in Poland are not capital companies, and this project concerns only capital companies - it is known how CIT is involved, but it will not be a mass solution for entrepreneurs, but rather I would say: exclusive. With regard to whether it is simple, the Estonian tax will appear at the time of payment of the dividend. Also in Poland, but - this is where it begins. For example, there is a survey on the Ministry's website which needs to be met in order to benefit from it. There are 15 requirements to be met in order to benefit from this Estonian CIT. You're urging this solution... There's a requirement to hire three people. I said, why? Why do you want to force people to hire, like? Don't they have to? They want to use CIT, people don't have to hire, so why hire? The same way you encourage people, entrepreneurs to invest: 15% 20 thousand, 33% $50,000, or maybe $50,000, $110,000. Once it's quite complicated, but also there's a risk that the entrepreneur won't invest as much as he needs, but he'll invest as much as he needs to get into this CIT. We also hear about overinvestments, too much employment. These are then problems for as small entities as these types of companies. Simplicity, universality. What entrepreneurs expect is easy, friendly, simple regulations. 25 pages of regulations, 50 pages of comment. In Estonia, an entrepreneur needs 50 hours a year to account for taxes, in Poland it is estimated to be 340. In the classification of ease of business we are very low. We have the chance of making this law easy at least in this area, just like in Estonia. But, unfortunately, 25 pages of these exemptions, exclusions, sharpenings, requirements mean that an entrepreneur, often a simple man like everyone, will have to benefit from the support of an accountant, financial, tax. He just can't handle it himself. He won't understand. Estonia has a 20% solution And that's it. Payment of dividend 20% And then you don't pay for the PIT dividend. In Poland - 10, 15, 20, 25%, and if PIT is 25 or 30. We're making this system complicated. I speak with enthusiasm again - the Minister spoke about Estonia - we are all eagerly waiting for these Estonian solutions, but when we read this, there is no Estonia here. Again, this is a Polish regulatory hell. It's like the road signs. When we enter Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, it says what the limits are. When we enter Poland, this board cannot be read. And we just like the board at the entrance, about what speed limits are, we propose in this CIT, which was supposed to be extremely simple. I've heard the Minister's interview somewhere, saying that we're learning from Estonian mistakes, from where they've made mistakes. As long as it's not the mistakes we make here, implementing such a law. You're talking about 200,000. companies, but elsewhere we hear about 40,000. You said it yourself, 120,000. people will be employed. It's at least three employees that give you $40,000. It's not gonna be a massacre. So these exclusions, the sharpening is too much. Too much. And we will urge the Minister, the government, to ensure that in further work, how necessary, because this solution is needed, is expected, so work, that this CIT Estonian, Polish is friendly and that these regulations [[♪ The bell ♪]] have been made as simplified as possible in the further process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anita Sowińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u113	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on printing No. 643 on the amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. One of the biggest challenges facing our economy is the small equity capital of Polish companies and a small tendency to spend money on investments. This is, of course, a problem not known from now on, which makes Polish companies not investing enough in innovation and fixed assets and therefore are less competitive on the international market. The second problem, which has also been present for many years, a case which blocks Polish companies, is a complex tax system requiring constant tracking of changes in regulations and keeping tedious tax records. The Estonian version of the corporate tax may be a way of removing both of these barriers. According to this concept, CIT is not deducted from profit generated by the company, but only at the time of payment of this profit from the company in the form of dividends. So as long as the money stays in the company and the profits are invested, for example. in development, while payment of CIT tax is not required. The draft law provides for two alternative tax options to be chosen by the trader. The first option is a lump sum on company income, i.e. a binding tax income system with categories of balance sheet law, consisting in a significant modification of tax rules - among others. the moment of the tax obligation, the tax base and the tax rates are changed. Option 2 is a special investment fund that allows for faster settlement of depreciation of fixed assets in tax costs. As a rule, the proposed amendments to the bill we are discussing are positive because they not only lower tax levels, but also encourage Polish companies to invest and simplify the way they settle taxes. As the Estonian experience shows, but also in other countries, these solutions are pro-investmental in nature and are likely to contribute to the growth of corporate equity, improving their liquidity, credit capacity and productivity, and thus will have a positive impact on the economic growth and competitiveness of the Polish economy. However, it must be pointed out that the proposed solution also has disadvantages. The disadvantage is that it will not be available to all companies, but only to limited liability companies and public limited liability companies, which meet all the criteria together, i.e. they do not have shares in other entities, employ at least three employees in addition to shareholders whose passive income does not exceed operating income and which show investment expenditure. Therefore, they will not be able to benefit from this preference of PIT taxpayers, i.e. natural persons engaged in business activities, or companies whose shareholder is another company, whether domestic or foreign. We must realise that this solution will lead to a distortion of competitiveness for businesses. We must also be aware that the solutions proposed in the draft law in the first few years will reduce the revenue of the state budget and local government units. According to the impact assessment of the regulation, in 2021 the negative impact on the central budget will be about PLN 4.3 billion and on local government units - almost PLN 1.3 billion. This is a lot, so we need to think about how to compensate local governments for the lower revenue to the budget, especially in the first years of the new tax regulation. Self-governments are already in a very difficult financial situation not only because of the pandemic, but also because of the increase in expenditure on education and health protection. Unfortunately, the new responsibilities imposed by the government do not involve additional revenue from the budget, so this needs to be taken into account in the new budget law. In conclusion, the Left supports further work in the Committee on Public Finances on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Poland Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 concerning the draft law on the amendment of the Act on corporate income tax and certain other laws contained in the Seym printing No. 643. According to our parliamentary club, the project brings several positive solutions to Polish entrepreneurs in principle. It concerns the introduction of two alternative tax options, i.e. a system modelled on the Estonian solution, a binding income for taxation with the categories of balance sheet law, consisting of a significant modification of the existing tax rules and a special investment fund which will enable taxpayers to settle the depreciation of fixed assets more quickly without interfering with the tax settlement. So-called. Estonian CIT is a modern tax treatment that allows companies to invest and minimise formalities in tax settlement. Companies that benefit from Estonian CIT will not have to pay monthly or quarterly advances or make annual accounts. According to this solution, the tax will be levied on the company at the time of the profit payment. This means that the funds that will remain in the company can be allocated to investment, which will translate into economic growth. Estonian CIT is also designed to counter the negative consequences of Coronavirus, i.e. to contribute to stable jobs and employment. The entrepreneur will be able to choose whether he wants to benefit from a new type of taxation or prefers to settle on an old basis. The new solution in the Polish version is intended only for limited liability companies and public limited liability companies. The new rules will allow the capital company, i.e. limited liability company, or public limited liability company, in which the shareholders are exclusively natural persons. The revenue of the company will not exceed PLN 100 million per year. This applies to approximately 90% Polish companies. A condition for using the so-called. Estonian CIT will employ at least three employees per contract of employment or incur monthly salaries for other contracts of at least three times the average monthly salary. The trader will be able to choose a new tax system for 4 years with the possibility of extending it for further periods of 4 years. An extension will be possible if, in the last - fourth - year of use of this system, the trader continues to meet the required criteria. Certainly, the project under investigation brings many benefits to companies, as I mentioned: the elimination of development barriers, the increase in equity, the improvement of financial liquidity, less formalities, but it is also necessary to add a bit to this, in our opinion, in the opinion of the Polish Coalition club, namely a very strong voice on this project by the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-government, which has highlighted that unfortunately we have, as with the zero PIT in the near future, also negative effects on the finances of local governments involved in this project. As we all know very well, the finances of local governments are already on the brink of capacity and it would be very important, I think, at this stage - and we as a club will demand this - to introduce some form of compensation for these depleted revenues of local governments. I think it's going to be part of us that we're going to be addicting our support to. As a rule, they are. These are very good solutions for entrepreneurs, but we cannot once again implement the noble assumptions at the expense of reducing local finances and revenue. I think this is the main argument that in our case will weigh on the definitive support of this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of Mr Jakub Kulesz, the Confederation's Circle of Posel. I understand provocatively without a mask, of course. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are also putting the Sejm's staff at risk in a special way, ladies, who are below the floor. They're responsible for the protocol, they're doing their duty, and you're just brazenly violating their safety. I understand you're gonna want to continue your appearance without a mask with full awareness, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u117	Your marshal, that's very kind of you... I asked you a question. No mask, right? I understand you know... You asked me a question, so I'd be happy to answer it. Excuse me, sir, I'm not done yet. A rhetorical question. You know the arrangements at the Bureau meeting, the Convention in the context of the need to wear masks in the Parliament hall, right? That's the question. Is it rhetorical or substantive again? No. I understand you do. I would therefore like to state that you are violating the peace and order of the Sejm, the sitting room, which is linked to the article. 22b. I state that you are in violation of order and that the matter will be referred to the Sejm Bureau meeting. I think you know the consequences. You're welcome to step forward. May I refer now, Your Marshal, to what you have said? I'd love to. Put your mask on. Within the time you're entitled to it. It is very kind of you to say to Prime Minister Morawiecki... that these tax issues, which are difficult, cover the subject that is easy for the media, this media history. Yesterday, all the media took care of Kaczyński's president, the fact that he didn't have a mask on his vows that he took off his glove, along with President Andrzej Duda. Today, your Marshal, a team with a trained opposition, deals with the Confederation and masks... Watch your mouth. ...saying oral findings that we didn't get in writing. It appears from your message that these arrangements concern masks. If that's the case, your marshal's breaking those terms, too, because you're not wearing a mask on your face, you're just wearing a hatchet. So that I would very much ask you to send me at least a written statement, even if it does not have any legal basis. You were at the Convention meeting and you heard the findings. So, if I may, I will move on to the substantive issues related to the law, what the media should really do, because it is about the fate of Polish entrepreneurs. I ask you to add to my commentary... No. ...the time I had to waste on polemicizing with you on foster issues. No, sir. I move on to the subject matter, the Estonian CIT issue. I have here a report by the KoLiber Association, by Maciej Letkiewicz, on Estonian CIT, and really about Polish CIT, which should be called anti-Estonian CIT, because it is. Prime Minister Morawiecki has this ability: he is an anti-Midas tax. Midas turned everything into gold, and Prime Minister Morawiecki turns everything he touches in tax matters into mud, so as not to say worse. And so it is in this case. What is Estonian CIT? The Prime Minister says this is an innovative solution. The Estonians have been able to enjoy it for 20 years, this is innovation. Thanks to this they have one of the simplest tax systems, spend six times less time on tax settlements - and ten times less time on income tax settlement - than Poles. Simple tax as building a cepa: until the company pays dividends, it does not pay income tax. This is a simplification of the rules, and in Poland we have an extension of the whole amount of regulation, because in Poland there are additional elements: there must be three employees excluding shareholders, there must be appropriate types of revenue, there must be no limits to revenue, the company cannot have shares in other companies and shareholders of this company cannot be companies, investment expenditures must be increased accordingly, the corresponding level. And this is all a caricature of the Estonian tax. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way, if you exclude large companies that really make a difference because they can afford foreign advisors, they run away with this income tax... These companies are excluded, so they will continue to flee with this tax. You exclude small companies by setting different requirements also for small companies. You make that practically no one will benefit from this very complicated solution, requiring spending a lot of money on tax advisors, because it is too difficult. That's what you're talking about. Personally, in 2016 I was already in the Ministry of Finance at a meeting with the Deputy Minister of Finance and presented him with the concept of Estonian tax. At the first meeting, he said it was some kind of fairy tale. I met him the second time, then he told me: indeed the concept is very interesting, but we don't have time now, because we have to push the vats, and in the first period it will cost. And you've worked four years to complicate this system so you can say: we're introducing Estonian CIT, but we're not really introducing anything. This is your tax policy - more and more taxes, an increasingly complicated tax system. He's losing his economy. Don't call it Estonian CIT. As far as these comments are concerned, someone in the ministry has certainly read this report, because two minor changes have been introduced - indeed the limit slightly raised, indeed the definition of the employee has been slightly changed. But it's still not Estonian CIT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u118	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation, please, at the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u119	Welcome to the masquerade ball tonight. A month ago, the viruses didn't hurt us, now they're hurting us again. Please accept that you are ridiculous about this masquerade. I don't have much time left, so I'll be brief. A bill that introduces extra... This law does not simplify the Polish tax system, it complicates it. This law introduces different requirements for which many entrepreneurs, instead of focusing on working for the economy, for the production of consumer goods and services, will focus on how to meet these requirements and how to mess with the company, how to transform their activities in order to catch up with some requirements. I would very much like if we refer to the Estonian CIT brand, which is a good brand, has already received some international recognition... Thank you very much, sir. Time... I would like us to get here a glitch from the Estonian embassy, that it is Estonian CIT, not Polish CIT. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Sadowski, the Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. You're welcome. Gadowski, I'm so sorry. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u121	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You could say, "What's with the CIT, what's with the CIT?" In fact, what is the government's trend with regard to tax reforms? On the one hand, you want to increase, on the other hand, you lower. In this regard, indeed, if this is done in the end, entrepreneurs will be able to benefit from the reduction and, on the other hand, you are introducing... We're about to discuss another CIT tax for limited companies. Minister, of course, this law on entrepreneurs imposes certain obligations, 15 conditions must be met so that this privilege can be exercised in the first place and people must be retained, investment must be carried out. In your opinion, how many entrepreneurs will be able to benefit from this bill? How much and what specific financial resources will be able to save you entrepreneurs? We all know that the local government is gonna lose on this, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] he used that tax. Next question: How are you going to compensate for the influences of local governments that they will lose, how will this bill come in? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. I can't see. In that case, Mr Adrian Zandberg, the Left Club, remotely. Do we have a call? You're an MP. You're welcome, sir. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u123	I don't know if you can hear me. You can hear me, sir. Please ask me to ask you a question. Thank you. High Izbo! In the Minister's speech, we heard a lot of enthusiasm and it was enthusiasm worthy of a salesman. But I would like to ask you a specific question, because you are planning to present a very expensive gift to capital companies, while I would like to hear what is the evidence that this gift will raise the level of investment in Poland. I stress: in Poland in 2020, because we have a different economy and a different structure for financing investments than Estonia 20 years ago. It is the devil's expensive proposal that will rip and from the central budget, and from the budgets of local governments thick billions of zlotys. And the question is, is it worth it? Is it worth it for the hospital money to be less educational? I'd like to see reliable analyses, not hear enthusiasm from lobbyists' brochures or from a salesman's manual. We haven't seen those reliable analyses. Meanwhile (The bell) capital in Poland is still taxed much lower than work, and if you implement such a solution, the burden of the budget will be even more based on employees. That's what happened where distributed profit taxation was introduced... Mr... ... e.g. That's why it's not too popular to solve. I'd like to ask you how you want to prevent this, and ask... Thank you. ...the answer to which there will be less enthusiasm and more concreteness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will quote the comments of the Startup Poland Foundation: The employment requirement introduced in the project for a contract of employment of at least three people closes the possibility of using Estonian CIT by many start-ups, especially small ones, which do not meet this criterion. We therefore recommend that this requirement be waived. End of quote. Hence the question. The idea and the idea of introducing Estonian CIT are worth considering, but why did the public consultation of start-ups and organisations representing such entities not have more opportunity to comment? After all, it was thanks to start-ups and small, innovative companies that came up with the subject of implementation of Estonian CIT, where the biggest reliefs and facilitations were introduced for this type of enterprise, while the Polish CIT clone found sharpenings and obstacles to this type of activity. In other words, the government tried very hard, and it worked out as usual.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u127	Minister! From year to year we are seeing less and less investment among small businesses. You're talking about how you want to increase it, you want companies to invest more. So why are we shutting this down? Why do we not allow everyone to enter this system, just complicate it to the limits of possibilities, so as to enhance this possibility of using friendly solutions? Friendly - if they were simple. Second thing. The cost of implementing this is estimated by the Minister at more than PLN 5 billion. CIT is used by local governments, mainly regional governments. What is the damage in the budgets of the voivodship self-governments in this regard? Are you planning any cover for these entities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u128	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested act in its form as present has nothing to do with Estonian CIT. This tax imposes an obligation to pay the money back to the fiscus at the time of payment of the profit. If it is intended for investment, no tax will be required. In your version, CIT is first collected from the company's money, and the rest is paid to the shareholders. From this dividend, the fiscal collects its share in the form of PIT. The new solution is partly beneficial for small entrepreneurs, but this project will once again reduce the revenue of local government units, as my previous speakers have already mentioned. Maybe the idea of this law is good, but for local government units it is negative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the influence of local governments be compensated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u130	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u131	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Deputy Minister, who read us from the card of Estonian CIT and presented us, also from the card, the advantages of this Estonian-like product, PiS-CIT. What are the similarities, how many similarities are there, and how many differences are there between the two different systems? I would also like to ask the Minister, which of the industries would be most likely to benefit from this Estonian-like product, the PiS-Polish CIT, and what this will have to do with the budgets of local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u133	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would agree with those voices that dealt with calling the new Estonian tax as a copy of that solution. This is obvious nonsense and such intellectual deception. Of course, it is a step, Minister, in the right direction, but in such a typically Polish bureaucratic, known to us style and edition. This project is based on regulations and complex and, most importantly, potentially only applies to about 200,000. of about 2.5 million Polish companies, i.e. less than 10%. Experts estimate that even from this group 200,000. companies only some will want to benefit from this because of these bureaucratic burdens. But I wanted to ask you about the ones the government ruled out. Why have cooperatives been excluded? I mean, they could use it quietly. And the other thing. Why does the PiS rule out [[♪ The bell ♪]] from this form of taxation innovative companies, where shareholders are e.g. Funds? Often these innovative companies need capital, and this capital offers funds. Thank you very much. It would be a natural space to apply this tax, and you rule it out. Why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. Mr Braun, do not lean over workers who are forced to contact you, and you are without a mask. [[Applause]] Do you hear me, Mr Braun? Excuse me? Step a mile away from the employee. Don't put an employee at risk of infection. Your Marshal, please do your duty, which does not belong to... Mr Braun, put on your mask or go a mile and a half. It is not your duty to instruct Members on their position in the plenary room of the Sejm. Mr Braun, I state that your behaviour in the Chamber once again violates the seriousness of the Sejm. You know the consequences. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u135	Your Marshal... Your presence here violates the seriousness of the High House. Once again, you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. Marshal Gosievska, you are violating this House's seriousness with your existence in this House and your behaviour here today. No comment, sir, because you're giving yourself a card. I hope you don't have a comment. I hope so. Ham! Please accept... Five minutes break, please. And step away from the employee. Grzesiek, calm down. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] We're calling a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 34 hrs. 13 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda. I would very much like to ask you to continue. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In theory, of course, this law goes in the right direction. Estonian CIT is indeed a good solution, but Polish Estonian CIT unfortunately does not have much to do with it. Polish businessman must meet a total of 15 conditions, which many people have spoken about. Well, there you go. Annual revenue not exceeding PLN 100 million with VAT. Why the VAT at all, why not the net? Only natural persons may be shareholders, and neither can the company have shares in other companies. What's that for? Many major companies invest in other companies. The need to invest in fixed assets. You therefore exclude the following sectors: training, consulting, consulting and financial. They don't need fixed assets. Then why are you doing this? After all, the need to set aside these funds for investment in a separate account makes it very difficult to maintain liquidity. And finally, de facto 24% interest after 3 years if one of these conditions is not met. Which businessman will risk it? Have any of you even counted how many entrepreneurs you're ruling out with these regulations? Well, because it's a little bit like you're announcing a theoretically good solution, and then you're making so many regulations, so many restrictions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure you've ruled out almost everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry State! The idea of the Estonian tax is an idea that aims to simplify the system and increase the investment of companies. That's the idea. That's a good idea. But what you have prepared is a slogan that has nothing to do with this original idea. If you talked to Polish entrepreneurs, you would know that the biggest barrier to the development of enterprises in Poland is excessive regulation. And that's the direction of this bill. This bill is over-regulation. Question one: Did you give this law to Minister Gowin, who once dealt with deregulation? Question two: Why does this change really work? And how do you want to protect Polish entrepreneurs from imposing further regulations on them and preventing them from actually developing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u139	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! When Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that Poland would become an ideal place for business development, he spoke about the introduction of the so-called. Estonian tax. The greatest advantage of Estonian CIT is its simplicity. For 20 years, the provision provides that all the company's income is not taxed as long as the company does not pay dividends to its owners. However, what you are proposing unfortunately has little to do with this Estonian CIT. The solutions you're proposing are very complicated. In order to benefit from the new form of taxation, the Polish entrepreneur will have to fulfil a total of several conditions. Please inform me why you have so complicated a very simple solution and how many businesses you will exclude from using this new tax. There is quite a lack of consistency in the proposed legislation. We will be quite far from Estonia when it comes to the competitiveness of the tax system. I would like to remind you that Poland is on the penultimate place (the bell) in OECD rankings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u140	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, According to the impact assessment referred to in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, local authorities, in particular regional and regional governments, will lose over PLN 3300 million in the coming years. In the perspective of 10 years, they will also lose 1.5 billion PLN. Why does the government, when preparing such draft laws, consult them also with the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government, fail to take their views into account? After all, the reduced shares of these local authorities are a reduction in investment opportunities. It's about investments, for example. in county hospitals, investments in roads or maintenance of educational establishments. In this way, the state consciously reduces the development opportunities of district communities, local communities. This isn't right. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u142	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is undoubtedly dedicated to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These entities will be the beneficiaries of this bill. On the other hand, criticisms of the impact of this law on the public finance sector and, in particular, on local governments have emerged in the discussion. There were different sizes when it came to calculating these effects. Therefore, I ask the Minister to present - I know that this is not easy, because it is difficult to accurately estimate the number of these entities, it is not known - how many entities will benefit from this, it is about some balanced proportion, so that we do not demonise it, saying that it will result in the collapse of local governments. Is that really a scale? About 1 billion a year? Is this any different? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u144	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u145	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many words have already been said about the scarce budgets of voivodships. And I think, Minister... I have a short question: Have you considered - because there will probably be less money, mainly in the budgets of voivodships - whether it might be worth thinking about increasing the share of CIT in voivodships, thus compensating for the lost income of voivodship authorities? That's the question I wanted to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll say it again, I think, with a lot of friends and colleagues... It is also about numerous doubts presented in club speeches. But the concern for self-government and its condition has been present in this House for years. Please answer the question directly: Why does the bill not include any compensation to local governments for the funds lost as a result of the entry into force of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u148	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u149	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Do you know what a chocolate-like product is? It's like this project is Estonian-like to Estonian CIT. You have multiplied obstacles and made a specific obstacle course so that the entrepreneur does not benefit and you have something to show for it. And that's a very bad solution. I will not repeat what Mr Saługa said and everyone critically referring to this project. That's the first one. And two: you may not remember, because you were not in the government, but when the Civic Platform proposed solutions for Janosik, the first was the government of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, which strongly protested as it lost 30 million. He's gonna lose 250 today and I can't hear the protest. I can't hear a protest from Podkarpacie. Did the local authorities and what governments wrote a protest to make it up to them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we will see whether you want to do this and whether the local governments have taken your solution seriously. Because it's an Estonian-like product, just like it used to be when there was a crisis -- a chocolate-like product. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u150	Thank you very much, Member. And please, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u151	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Is there little Estonia in the solution proposed by us? Of course not. Simplicity, pro-investment and cheapness of the solution were transferred to the Polish solution practically 1:1. Are the conditions for entry into the Estonian system complicated? Neither did I. The terms and conditions are transparent, inclusive, one that will be checked by every accountant employed in the company at hand. If this tax were implemented in the middle of this year, it could immediately benefit from 40 000. limited liability companies registered in Poland, with minor changes in the structure of conducting business e.g., employing at least one employee, could benefit from 200,000. companies, i.e. more than 90% actively operating in Poland limited companies. What sectors will be interested in this solution? Practically any industry that is interested in the development of its activities. Note: here the condition is not only to increase the volume of fixed assets, but also to invest in human capital, so both manufacturing, industrial and e.g. sectors will be interested. food, as well as service industries, advertising agencies, IT services and even security companies. Why the difference between the Polish solution and the solution in Estonia? First of all, from the 20-year experience of the Estonians. What we have implemented is the result of the joint work of the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Finance of Estonia, which drew our attention to three problems, so-called. Bermudian CIT triangle, namely: lack of influence on large players who have not started investing more, imprecise support of companies and leaks of the system. Since the implementation of this system as mushrooms after rain in Estonia began to appear dunes companies, which were used for tax optimization, often international, aggressive by large multinational companies. In Poland, we want to avoid this. We want to implement the Estonian system in the pilot formula next year at the first stage of its implementation, limit its application to those companies that need it most, and so it happens that it will be as much as 90% companies operating in Poland. What's the deal? What's the point of hiring three people? It is precisely so that companies that are not really non-existent are not created in Poland, serving only international optimizations, so that there are no dummies companies, and that companies that benefit from this act really and that the entry into the Estonian system, tax savings are associated with real, effective support of the Polish economy, including increased employment. Let us remember: we are not just talking about increasing employment on the basis of a contract of employment, but just listening to the needs of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, in the needs of start-ups, this condition has been modified. Now it is enough to employ any type of employment resulting in the employee's membership. Are the rules long? Not really. The conditions for remaining in the Estonian system are described on only five pages, and this is the five pages that should be learned by any economic operator who is in the Estonian system, because only they will benefit from them, and not from 278 pages that he must use today. What evidence is there that this solution will have good results? Here we are based not only on studies on Estonia, but also on Latvia, including Georgia, also on other countries where there are similar ways of supporting small and medium-sized business: German, Austrian or Hungarian. These are OECD tests. And what do they show? They show that a major part of GDP is devoted to the acquisition of fixed assets, showing a higher growth rate of fixed capital expenditure, a higher economic mood rate. These are only examples, but these are examples showing that those countries in which such a way of supporting investments by small and medium-sized enterprises operate are not only doing better than Poland, but also better than the EU average. As far as local authorities are concerned, there is indeed no compensation for the loss of revenue. Note that Estonian CIT will cost around 4300 million from the state budget and 1300 million from local government units next year. Let us remember: our key goal - and our, and local governments - is to protect the tax base, because it is the main source that allows to provide tax revenue that serves to satisfy the needs and central administration, and the government, and local government units. It is our shared responsibility to give companies the most favourable tax treatment that will support employment, which will support investment and which (The Bell) will also give companies this safety cushion, which will protect them from possible falling out of the market in the course of economic difficulties that may be experienced in the coming months. Remember what the Estonian example tells us. In fact, CIT is less in the first year of influence, while PIT revenues are growing precisely by increasing employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u152	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on corporation tax and certain other laws contained in print No 643, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and some other laws (print No 642). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws contained in print No 642. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on the compliance of businesses with tax obligations, reduce the burden on small companies, eliminate many doubts that arise in the application of tax rules, and adapt existing regulations to changing realities. With regard to corporation tax, a significant increase in the application of the preferential CIT rate should be indicated. The proposed project envisages almost double the increase of 1,200 000. EUR up to EUR 2 million, the taxpayer's income limit. For these taxpayers the rate will not be 19% , but 9% CIT. 11,000 will benefit from this. taxpayers, and in their pockets there will be over PLN 400 million. This is part of a permanent tax burden reduction policy. Until recently, the CIT rate in Poland was 19% for all companies. In 2017, we reduced CIT for a small taxpayer in the case of almost 90% companies up to 15%, 2 years later there was another drop - to 9%. In total, in the first year, since these reductions started, 400 million PLN remained in the company's pockets, in the second year - more than 560 million PLN, and from next year on the reductions of CIT companies will benefit annually for about 1 billion PLN. A positive change for CIT and PIT taxpayers is also the extension of the exemption from the so-called. minimum tax. The epidemiology-driven exemption now applies to the period from March to December this year. The project assumes that the exemption will continue until the end of the month in which the epidemic is cancelled. The Act also provides for amendments to the lump sum from registered revenues. A flat is a simplified way to settle income tax. The taxpayer does not calculate the income and instead applies the reduced tax rate directly to the income achieved, thus avoiding the tedious calculations, documentation and risk of error. Smaller companies should spend as little time as possible on tax settlement and as much time as possible on adapting their business to the changing economic situation. They have been calling for this for many years, among others. spokesperson for small and medium-sized companies and the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers. We, too, share this view. Hence the proposals. First of all, increase the lump sum limit. The simplified settlement could be selected by companies whose revenues did not exceed 250,000. Euros. Now we will raise the limit eight times, to 2 million euros. Second, shut-downs. The Act now lists as many as 58 industries that cannot benefit from a lump sum. These include e.g. services of lawyers, accountants or architects. We will remove the vast majority of these exemptions, and only a few will remain due to security reasons, for example. running exchange offices or trading car parts. Thirdly, we propose a reduction in the flat rate. Freelancers will benefit, e.g. Doctors, translators or teachers. The flat rate will fall from 20% to 17% for them, while the rate will decrease from 17% to 15% for them. They will benefit, for example. hotelers and photographers. Next year we want to work with the market to further reduce lump sums so that it is even more attractive. Next year, thanks to this lump sum change, the first time in history will be able to benefit as much as 180 thousand. companies. This will mean not only simplification but also savings for them. As a result, almost 900 million PLN will remain in their pockets. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the time of the exit of the economy, it is crucial for companies, especially the smaller ones, to ensure a level playing field with larger players. It is the big market players who have the most opportunities to save money on taxes. Sometimes it happens using dishonest methods. The result is an even greater advantage to smaller business. The fight against tax avoidance is particularly urgent in times of epidemic, because it is a time when large companies push smaller ones out of the market. Tax reductions for small business and sharp steps against tax avoidance are now announced by most European Union countries, including Germany, France, Austria, Italy and Hungary. Poland declared war on CIT and tax havens four years ago. According to research by the Polish Economic Institute thanks to tax sealing and reform of KAS, the CIT gap decreased by half over 4 years: from 2% to 1% GDP, but still amounts to over PLN 22 billion per year, which means that every third of the zloty that larger companies should pay does not go to the state budget. This is a big cost for Poland, because every unpaid zloty must be compensated by an honest taxpayer, most often by small entrepreneurs and employees. The sealing solutions presented in the project are not an experiment, they are an equation for a pelletson. We want to implement solutions that have been proven in most European countries for many years and are a standard of civilised tax regulation. In total, sealing changes will bring over PLN 2 billion and will mean a reduction of the CIT gap from year to year by more than 10%. These are the measures that will remain in Poland (The Bell) and will benefit the Polish economy, especially smaller companies in which we reduce taxes at the same time. Can I go on or... You have one more minute, Minister. Your Marshal, allow me, because these are important matters. You have another minute of extra time. Don't forget about the abolition. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Then maybe I'll talk about the abolition, and I'll put the rest in the answers to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of personal income tax, a specific and substantial change will be introduced a deduction limit for the abolition allowance. Since 2008, legislation has been in force which preferentially treats the income of people who live in Poland, but for part of the year they operate abroad. As a result, income generated in many countries is completely exempt from taxation in Poland. Abolitic relief often serves dishonest companies so as not to pay taxes in Poland at all. According to the information from the tax control, e.g. is avoided. by transferring the profit generated in Poland to a company registered in the Netherlands. The profit is then paid back to its Polish owner, e.g. in the form of a Director's salary, which is not taxed in Poland by abolition relief. The lack of taxes on foreign income is becoming an exception in the world. Poland has committed itself in the framework of cooperation in the OECD field to replace it with a new global standard, i.e. to credit tax paid abroad for taxes to be paid in Poland. We are fulfilling our obligations and we want to protect as much as possible those actually working for part of the year abroad. Hence, they are expected to have an amount free of 8 000. PLN per year. Thanks to it, nothing will change until 2/3 of those enjoying the abolition relief. The tax will only be paid by people earning very high income abroad. According to administrative data, people whose taxation is increasing save as much as 10 000 on taxes to be paid in Poland on average. PLN per year. Moreover, 80% of these revenues come from EU tax havens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First, remotely, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u155	Can you hear me? Hello! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the proposal submitted by the government for a print bill No. 642. The bill provides for amendments to several tax laws such as the PIT Act, the CIT Act, the Roar Act and the tonnage tax Act. At the same time, it amends other laws governing economic life. It goes on, among other things. for the Act on Accounting, Commercial Companies Code, the Act on Special Solutions related to Prevention, Against and Combating COVID-19 or the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementive Industries. The main objective of the Act is to seal the corporate income tax system ensuring that the amount of tax paid by large companies, in particular international companies, is linked to the actual place where they earn their income. It therefore provides that it will fall within the scope of the CIT Act having its registered office or management in the territory of the Republic of Poland of limited liability companies and those public companies whose shareholders are not exclusively natural persons and where taxpayers of income tax participating in the profits of such publicly owned companies are not disclosed, which results in the possibility of tax evasion. The proposed regulations do not include open companies for which the identity of the shareholders who are taxable persons, natural or legal persons, will be disclosed to the tax authorities. In the case of limited partnership companies whose links between the shareholders do not indicate an optimal purpose for their creation, the project provides for exemption from income tax for limited liability companies whose effect in the effective taxation of the profits of such limited liability companies will remain at a comparable level to taxation under the current rules. The treatment of limited partnership companies as a taxpayer of CIT tax is a widely accepted solution in many countries of the European Union and is consistent with the generally accepted intra-Community tax policy. Another sealing element is the introduction of solutions to facilitate tax recovery in the case of income from the sale of shares in real estate companies by non-residents. On the basis of the current legal solutions, it is difficult to claim claims from non-residents and therefore, as part of the seal, the project provides for the obligation to draw up and make public information on the tax strategy implemented. This obligation applies to taxable persons whose income in the previous year exceeded the amount in PLN corresponding to EUR 50 million as well as to taxable persons acting in the form of a tax group regardless of their income. With regard to personal income tax, it is proposed to amend the exemption for the income of seafarers on board ships to align the legal and tax situation of seafarers who are nationals of a Member State of the European Union or of a Member State of the European Economic Area irrespective of the flag under which they sail. The amendments to the Roaming Act consist in raising the revenue limit for the selection of lump sums and the revenue limit for quarterly lump sums, eliminating most cases where certain activities exclude flat-rate taxation from registered revenues, including by changing the definition of liberal professions, reducing and harmonising certain lump sums, clarifying the rules for lump sums paid on a quarterly basis or making it easier for taxable persons on a tax card. It is assumed that the changes will increase the number of taxpayers able to benefit from this form of taxation and make it more attractive. Changes in transfer pricing are also proposed in relation to transactions with so-called entities. tax havens. They consist of extending the scope of transactions subject to verification for compliance with the market price principle. They shall also include an extension of the documentation obligations relating to those transactions. In addition, they were proposed to do so. benefit test - description of expected economic benefits. The amendments are also intended to reduce the bureaucratic and administrative burden on enterprises (Ring) on transfer prices during the period of the outbreak or epidemic risk in relation to COVID-19. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government bill and recommends continuing to process it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u156	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u157	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill fits perfectly in the characteristics of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. It is both tax reform and many other laws. First of all, he treats entrepreneurs and taxpayers as potential fraudsters. Secondly, it surprises them with their changes. Thirdly - all this causes Poland to place itself next to Russia in the rankings of trust. The crisis of confidence of citizens and entrepreneurs in state institutions is growing. With the growing crisis of confidence in the institutions of the country of the majority of citizens and entrepreneurs lack the belief that the whole system is working in their favor. What you're trying to do clearly shows that he's not working. With a light hand you reach deeper and deeper into the pockets of entrepreneurs and taxpayers, imposing more and more danin, fees, taxes, benefits, contributions and burdens on them. When it comes to semantics, you're champions. In the case of economic governance, I regret to say that I do not. Right now, during the pandemic, taxpayers and entrepreneurs must not be disturbed. If it's okay, we have to help them. How? Don't burden them. Hold out your hand to them. Just trust them. Trust is a sign of a serious state. No tax changes have been introduced in a serious country since 1 January, adopting them less than 3 months before, without surprising the changes of taxpayers, accountants, tax advisors or finally the fiscal itself. In a serious country there are legislative standards, public consultation takes longer than 2 days. The voice of experts and the social side, in this case entrepreneurs, is not only audible, but above all heard. Poland's position in the rankings of economic freedom is growing steadily in a serious country. And how was it between 2015 and 2019? In the Doing Business ranking we fell from 32nd to 40th place, in the Transparency International corruption ranking from 29th to 41st place, in the Global Peace Index from 19th to 29th position, in the Democratic Index from 48th to 57th place, and in the Index of Economic Freedom we fell from 42nd place to 46th place. This isn't a serious country. You know what the worst part is? That you're moving on. The proof of this is the law which introduces CIT taxation of limited companies, which will directly hit Polish family businesses, making it difficult for them to compete with foreign competition. [[Applause]] The change you want to make hurts about 40,000. Native Polish small and medium-sized companies. And the point is, you're gonna tax these companies not at 19%. As you say, but at 38%. This is incomprehensible. Why do you want to punish these people? The business environment, the employers' environment, the associations protest against this law. They write us letters, they send us information. Finally, I would like to say to you that the institution you have set up, the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, is also protesting against this law. We in the Civic Coalition are against it and are asking for it to be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u158	Thank you very much, sir. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u159	I don't like reminding people of their age, but terribly young gentlemen represent the government in this case. There's no finance minister, no prime minister, no millionaires who, under strange circumstances, won wealth. What's the bill about? Gentlemen, you speak so easily of people who work abroad that they are outside the Polish tax system. After all, we are talking about people who have often been pushed to Great Britain, England, Ireland to work there. What are you doing? It's about people who work hard there and pay fair taxes, just like the English or the Irish, mostly young people, just like the gentlemen. What do they do with the rest of them? They're sending the rest home. They send their parents, wives, children hard-earned money. What are you doing with the money? You take them away from them and you say - you paid tax in Ireland, England, but you are Poles, so you must pay it again. Have you considered how, given the cost of living in Ireland, the UK, Norway and other countries, these people are to compete in the labour market with Portuguese, Irish, British? They pay tax once, and Polish citizens will work in Ireland and the UK and will pay it twice. Why? Because you guys had a ball, and for a couple of years you could afford anything, and today it turns out that the money is gone, that Mr. Morawiecki already ate them all. Who's gonna pay for this? They are to pay Polish immigrants who work abroad and send money to Poland every month to support their own families. What you're doing here is an exceptional insolence. You're robbing people who aren't using you in any way, but they're adding to it. It's a disgraceful bill. You can't host public money. No decent man (the bell) will put his hand in double taxation of Poles hardworking abroad. The Civic Coalition will request that this project be rejected at first reading. We will do everything, including parliamentary obstruction in the Senate, so that this bill does not enter into force. It is a disgrace that no serious man - some young people send here - is able to stand here honestly. There's no PiS in the O.R. Thank you very much. And this is how taxes are introduced to people, Poles who live abroad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u160	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u161	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Patriotism and faithfulness to the interest of the Polish state can be realized in various ways. In the long history of our Polish history, Poles and Poles fought armedly in independence breaks, on all fronts of war in the world, in resistance movements, in uprisings, but also witnessed their patriotism in the laborious reconstruction and strengthening of the Polish economy. They did so both in times of captivity, as did the Polish positivists in the 19th century and after Poland regained its independence. After the systemic transformation in 1989, these patriots and patriots rebuild the Polish economy, its competitiveness and competitiveness of Polish capital are the owners of Polish, native, often family-owned small and medium-sized companies. It is these small and medium-sized companies that build their national income to the greatest extent. Today Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki suddenly decided to put a knife in their backs, specifically the second most popular commercial law companies in Poland, i.e. limited companies. From day to day 70,000. Poles and Poles employing 3 million workers and employees and generating 300 billion income learn that they are fraudsters, quote: aggressive tax optimizers, operating only to circumvent the law. In an outrageous way, the overwhelming majority of honest Poles and Poles are accused of things that are not covered in the available data, also in official data of the authorities of the Polish state. This form, a limited partnership, is not usually an attempt to circumvent anything, is permitted by law and is chosen because it avoids the seizure of personal property or allows for a faster monthly profit payment. The government has come up with an idea, and this is the main idea of this law, to double taxation our limited companies, not only with PIT, but also with CIT. This reminds us of how unloving the Stalinist houses in Poland, which the government of that time imposed on the surviving remnants of private companies, in order to ultimately kill them with this further tax, apart from income and turnover tax. The justification for this move in the bill is bogus and manipulated. In contrast to what the government proclaims, this change will cause a deep asymmetry in the taxation of Polish limited companies in relation to their foreign counterparts and to limited liability companies, of which there are six times more than limited companies in Poland, of which 72% does not have any income at all, so they do not pay any tax, and they have a number of privileges which the limited companies do not have. It is rude and cynical to ensure that most limited companies benefit from CIT tax relief, because it is those companies that do not receive this relief that earn 90%. revenue generated by all limited companies in Poland. And these companies are going to be paying 38% now. tax, and their foreign competitors will only laugh and blur their hands. It is also lame to ensure that this bill will cause foreign limited companies to pay taxes in Poland, and here they throw examples, e.g. Lidl. However, this justification does not mention this; the existence of the article is ignored. Article 22 (2) (b) 4 CIT Act, which provides that if the foreign participation is higher than 10% , e.g. In Lidl is, this company will be exempt from dividend tax. Besides, the limited partnership with any foreign participation is less than 2% all limited companies operating in the territory of Poland. This law also calls for the elimination of escapes to tax havens, which we would all like to see, suggesting that these commando companies were created as well, but those limited companies which are registered either in Cyprus or Malta or in Luxembourg are at all 0.4%. This law also has terrible consequences for local governments, causing significant losses in their income. It's not just the transition from PIT to CIT. The share of CIT in municipalities and powiats is six times lower than in PIT. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, the second point that this law raises is the possibility for a wider group of taxpayers, namely 175 000. persons, using a simplified form of taxation, i.e. a lump sum, and local governments do not participate in lump sum income. This applies to 2807 self-government units. You're very close to the end. Half a minute, please. Half a minute. 15 seconds, 'cause it's already... Another change that I would like to raise, striking citizens and citizens, is the abolition of the abolition relief. Here we have just heard from a government representative how fantastically beneficial this will be. On the other hand, the relief in the countries of the European Union is five times higher than the relief in Poland. And if Poles who work abroad for their families, not for fantasy, were not to be discriminated by it, then this relief should not be 8 thousand and 33 thousand. zł. Thank you very much, Member. The Left Club has a negative opinion on this project. This project tightens the noose around the neck barely struggling with the crisis, with a lockdown, with a pandemic of local governments... Thank you very much, Member. ...Entrepreneurs and, as it turns out, Poles and Poles who are forced to... Thank you very much. ...work abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u162	Thank you. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The place of the law, which imposes additional tax obligations on Polish entrepreneurs in a time of worsening economic crisis, is, honourable ministers, in a basket. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland makes a request to reject this law at first reading. [[Applause]] What negative effects of this bill will materialize? Most limited companies with a turnover of more than EUR 2 million will wake up in a new reality - a tax not 19- but close to 40%. According to the representatives of these companies, this means mass bankruptcy and the transformation of companies into public or civil companies. What does that mean next? Jumping unemployment. Each limited partnership employs at least dozens of employees on average, so rejecting this harmful bill is the common interest of employers and workers. Reduction of salaries for young workers there. Blocking investment and new jobs. Is that what this crisis is about, ministers? Numerous bankruptcies of Polish companies operating on a low margin. Disincentives to show income. Expanding the gray zone. The competitive capacity of Polish capital vis-à-vis foreign corporations will be significantly reduced. Is that what this is about in times of crisis? Gentlemen of Ministers! After all, many limited companies benefited from the so-called. the financial shield due to their difficult situation and the decline in turnover by the pandemic and the economic recession. After all, one of the basic conditions of the mandatory agreement on financial subsidies under the shield was the maintenance of the company and its employees. How is this possible for many limited companies? We're gonna have a curiosity situation. First, the government granted the aid, and now it will lead to this aid being returned to the government by many falling limited companies. Is that what this is about? Gentlemen of Ministers! At the end of the calendar, which proves the puriazum of this bill. In practice, what does it mean for thousands of limited companies to enter into force on 1 January 2021? After its adoption, partners must first be sure that this idea will come into force and in what form. And that's what they're gonna know when the bill's gonna be passed. That's somewhere around the end of November. Then the partners have to sit down and conduct many long negotiations on the shape of the new company's contract, e.g. public or civil. Then a new company must be established, e.g. open, and there are all the formalities involved. The National Court Register would have to register it, which often takes several months in large cities. Only then, already in the new 2021, would all the assets have to be transferred to a new company, e.g. public, pay for certain taxes associated with it. Then we have to sign new contracts with employees. This can often give rise to negotiations and the passing of another time. And worst of all, then you have to sign contracts, annexes to a new company with customers, suppliers. This is extremely difficult because not everyone will agree to it. Many will renegotiate the terms in part of the contracts within the current limited partnership, there are prohibitions on the transfer of rights and obligations from existing contracts to new entrants. And then what? Anybody think of that at the Ministry of Finance? This is an extremely irresponsible jump on Polish companies. And that's a brutally aggressive word, because that's all you can call it. It leads many limited companies directly to the grave. There is still time, as I said at the outset, to reflect on this issue at a time of crisis, to really retreat from this project, which is absolutely tragic for the limited companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. Mr President, for the sake of respect for Members and employees, can you not wear a mask? He's too pretty.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u165	Due to respect for Polish entrepreneurs and Polish voters, I want to talk about double taxation plans for limited companies. If you treat it the same way as the safety of Members, congratulations. Empty government benches, not one Member of the PiS in the courtroom. Empty benches show respect for Polish entrepreneurs, which the governing party has. And here we are. Who? They show what the real attitude of politicians of the ruling option looks like, not the one declared in the media, but the real one, to tens of thousands of Polish limited companies, to Polish capital from the transport industry, the construction industry, the automotive industry, the glass processing industry and many, many others, to people who conduct legitimate economic activity, effectively competing in European markets, and now are to be destroyed as a result of the whim of the government. What's the logic behind what you're trying to do? Is this about you giving away money from the financial shield to the companies, missing in the budget, and what you spend with one hand in the shield, now you want it back? Is this about circumvention of constitutional regulations, about not being able to directly finance government debt? If not, explain the logic behind the fact that this form of doing business for 5 years did not raise your objections, and now suddenly its taxation is to increase not by 1 percentage point, not by 2 but by a dozen? Almost twice. What's the point? Why would you want to do that? How should Polish entrepreneurs compete in international markets? Do you really want to introduce these new regulations since January? Are you crazy? No consultation? How can you do that? How can you not be ashamed at all? How can you not be ashamed of entrepreneurs who work hard? Hundreds of thousands of Poles work in this scheme. I hear you're working on some housing programs. Did you know that more than half of the apartments in Poland are being built by commando companies that you want to hit right now? How could you even come up with this idea? How could you not invite anyone to consult? The Confederation will never agree to such a gangster standard of policymaking as they participate in... I regret the fact that I see officials here, I do not see politicians, I regret that you must be firming your faces and your names, sitting in government benches, this shameful policy, whose face does not have the courage to give here Mateusz Morawiecki, Jarosław Kaczyński or other politicians who play in puppet rulers, in masters of life and death, in masters of civil rights, in masters of economic freedom which they destroy in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u166	Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation. No mask, too pretty. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today in the Chamber there is an order for masks to be put on, and you do not consciously follow the recommendation of the Sejm Bureau, taking responsibility for the health of the Sejm and its Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u167	Relax, we'll talk about the masks after 41 grand. The limited companies will be dissolved because that's what this bill leads to. Do you really think that double taxation doesn't change anything in these companies, that they sleep on money, that - I don't know - they have made this money, they have machines to make this money and they just print it? I, too, have been running a limited partnership for many years, and it's not like you're making some coconuts without a job and you're just waiting for what to spend them. I don't know if you ever worked in a free market when you call these commando companies something where, I don't know, money moves out or taxes aren't paid. Everyone pays their taxes there normally, as they should be, and I just don't understand your actions in this context, all the more so since it is October. We'll introduce this bill in November, maybe it'll start functioning from January. How do you imagine any business plans, any loans? After all, these people might want to apply for loans to banks. I mean, at this point, no bank is gonna give the limited partnership a loan. How do you imagine that? Contracts that are signed for many years. So? Now they're going to renegotiate these contracts, tell their contractors: you know, sorry, in Poland the tax system has changed? Really? Is that how it's supposed to be? After all, these people will just take their companies abroad sooner or later. Disgraceful! Because in what other direction is this to go, as they see, how in Poland is the tax system run? At least there's some stability, right? There, they'll tell themselves, you can run these companies, and you can't do it here. And that's what the Polish government wants to do... It's an unimportant government. ...against 41 grand. limited partnership companies where 95% This is Polish capital? I don't know why. Naturally, you do not have the courage to introduce a digital tax so as to tax foreign companies: Google, Facebook, and download that money. So who are you downloading from? From Polish entrepreneurs. And that's what our government is doing. In addition, in the article. 2 Paragraph 21 requires that a report on the implementation of the tax strategy be drawn up and made public. What's that supposed to do? Now are big companies supposed to show what their turnover is? That's not how you negotiate. You can't run your company like this if all the finances are public. This bill is really bad and should be withdrawn. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u168	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u169	I would like to ask the ministers if they are aware that Poles who earn income abroad simply work abroad, maintain their families, for example by working. in Ireland or the UK, they may apply for the so-called. tax resident in the UK. Are you happy? Are you saying they can? Do you know what that means? That means we're gonna lose these people forever. This almost nationalist government will make their relationship with Poland disappear. They will be executed for Poland, for the Polish budget. I wanted to ask if you are aware of how many Poles work abroad, earn income abroad, being a tax resident in Poland, because from your justification it appears that 70,000. It's just absurd. It's a lot more than that. I wanted to ask if this law will also affect Polish officials working in the European institutions. Will they also be taxed twice, i.e. will they pay the Community tax (the bell), the European tax, and then pay the tax in Poland again? I would ask for a particularly precise answer to this second question, and also to the first question, if you know these answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Taxes should be fair and simple. You're an employee - you pay taxes, you do business - you pay taxes, you pay your own assets, you're a shareholder in the company - bravo you, you're only liable to the amount of your shares, you're entitled to a CIT tax, something to make the rules of the game fair for everyone. Unfortunately, it's a rip-off from commando companies. in these rules, a tear that costs the budget. At the same time, the limited partnership may not pay CIT and not be liable for the company's assets. And if you stick around and register your mother's company in the Caribbean, you don't pay tax at all. It's not fair to employees or other entrepreneurs. That's what needs to be changed. I am surprised at the position of PSL, who defends the limited partnership as independence. As this privilege was introduced, your messenger then avenged it and said that this was the easiest way to make untaxed profits. And she was right, not you. Of course, the bill is not perfect, and there are kicks. We need to lean on the situation of cross-border workers, but I have no doubt (the bell) that we should continue to work on this law, and I will vote in favour of its message to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u172	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u173	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, as well as I, are Members of the Warsaw District, which includes Poles and Poles living abroad. It is this law that applies to those who earn abroad. What's in this bill, High Izbo? First of all, it is the elimination of the abolition relief. This means that some Poles working abroad will pay higher taxes. Abolition relief is the remission of a certain part or all of the tax in certain situations. Currently, it is most commonly used in the context of tax accounting for income generated abroad. These usually exceed 8,000. zł. We have Mrs. Anna, who lives in Britain. That's where he pays his income tax. He gets his full income in the UK. Currently in Poland he does not pay any taxes. This will change on January 1, 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you want to patch this budget hole, this deficit, which is just 110 billion PLN this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! You can't punish those who want to do business. You can't punish those who work 10, 12 hours a day. You can't punish those who create jobs. You can't punish those who are at risk. Very often they also risk their own wealth, the property of the whole family. It is our duty to support Polish entrepreneurs. The law you are proposing limits support for Polish entrepreneurs from abroad. You can't agree to that. The last thing is time. Doesn't the PiS government see what's happening in Poland? Can't he see that a very large group of companies, a very large group of entrepreneurs is on the verge of bankruptcy, fighting for survival every day, fighting for their employees? No, gentlemen, this is not the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second, last thing - your marshal, 10 seconds please - the lack of stability of the law. People will never want to invest if the law is not known if the law is changed overnight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u176	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, but my glasses are steamed. We'd like to quote a classic, and it's a classic from this side of the room, which once said to send these economists to the Sahara, it'll run out of sand in a month. No offense, gentlemen, but that's the way to say about you. Send you to the Sahara, we'll be out of sand in a month. Did anyone even count when you're trying to launch this project... Ladies and gentlemen, the commando companies in your project have been aligned with the o.o. companies. Companies, individuals who have not so far paid two PIT taxes and dividends if they have decided to separate their activities related to business activity from personal property - because this was to separate business assets from personal business - after changes they will get additional CIT tax. When planning to create business in 2020 and offering the market the ultimate margin - at manufacturing and administrative costs - at 9% sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six-sixty-sixty-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven-seven-six-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-s These companies have such a margin - after the changes they will report bankruptcy, gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just putting in an amount of 60,000. PLN as tax-free is not a sufficient buffer. If in August this year, when starting up a business, companies decided to borrow at the level of many million to obtain at present on sales 9% And it's not until the next few years that more margins are going to be generated at as much as 200,000. zł will not allow them to handle a loan instalment, which is not at the expense of the company. It's not a cost, gentlemen. You have to introduce a longer vacathio legis, and it's best to let go of that gnome at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u178	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For the second time in an hour we rob Polish local governments. As a result of the implementation of this and the previous law, Polish local authorities will lose PLN 7489 million over the next 3 years. This is the result of the impact of the regulatory assessment. In view of both draft laws that we are discussing today, they will lose 15,732 million within 10 years. Second thing. In response to my question, the Minister himself from the Parliamentary Court on 5 May promised to attempt to regulate the possibility of transferring 1% the tax of more than one public benefit organisation. He said, among other things, I quote: I hope that the work will be completed as soon as possible and we will introduce this possibility from next fiscal year, i.e. from the annual accounts for 2020. When is this gonna happen? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments entered into force on 1 January 2021, i.e. in 3 months. The project appeared on government sites on September 16th, and business organisations had time to respond to it only until September 21st. The public consultation of such an important project in your performance is mockery and lawlessness, just as it is mockery and lawlessness to give entrepreneurs 3 months to adapt to such a major change. Double taxation of limited companies will further complicate our tax system rather than simplify it. It's another act that's harmful to entrepreneurs. What do you want to punish entrepreneurs for, reaching brutally into their pockets for money? Don't you have enough money to patch up the budget hole? Even so recently (the bell) Prime Minister Morawiecki told from this speaker that we have the first budget in history without deficit. The government's distribution led to a sudden search for money in taxpayers' pockets. Why are you doing this at the expense of entrepreneurs and local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u182	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the legislative proposals prepared, the elimination of the current abolition relief will be a manifestation of discrimination primarily against Polish seafarers. I say this as a Member of the Pomeranian Land. These actions of the government indicate that Polish sailors are treated solely as a burden on the country. It should be pointed out that it was the sailors who felt the consequences of the global crisis caused by the pandemic very badly. It is worth noting that seafarers are not entitled to health insurance and that they do not acquire pension rights because of their profession. The proposed legal changes provide that a sailor earning in a country where he pays lower taxes or benefits from tax relief will also be obliged in the Republic of Poland to pay tax on foreign income to the Polish fiscal office. The elimination of the current abolition relief will be a manifestation of discrimination primarily valued in the world (the bell) of Polish sailors. Why would you think that? What did the sailors do to make a good change? That they don't sail on ships under the Polish flag? Build the promised ferries and register them in the country, then give them a chance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u184	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u185	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today, entrepreneurs aren't lucky for you, or you're unlucky because you're showing, you're raising more taxes. So, ladies and gentlemen, Poles, hold on to your pockets. In limited companies on average - at protest - 15% extra tax, so modestly. This year you have already increased VAT, by PLN 8 billion, for everyone. For limited companies, the larger ones, on average about 15% . And then there's the abolition of the abolition notice. You locked the door in front of Poles working abroad. Nothing to say: come back, this is the labour market, today we have a very difficult situation. You do not respect Poles who earn money abroad. You don't take any step to make it possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was to help them. It's just outrageous. This project, as the Member said on behalf of the Civic Coalition, should be put in the basket. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u186	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The absent Members of the PiS and the absent Ministers of the PiS! Small and medium-sized enterprises are the salt of the Polish economy. Once again, you want to murder Polish business because you don't understand it, because for years you've only been spending not your money. Why do you need more taxes? For Kurski's television propaganda? Eight billion zlotys have already gone there. Minister Sasin's shredder at the Polish Post Office? There 70 million zlotys were ground. For further incalculable positions for your families in the Treasury companies? For buying coalitioners? For the double-time job of vice-ministers, the faithful? For the left-handed business of unpunished ministers? For what? Come to your senses, for in moderation in food and drink is a heavy sin, and misfortune is a crime against the hardworking people who work for your food. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u189	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, A few minutes ago, you said with disarming honesty that we had to assume this responsibility for Estonian CIT together. Now you're talking about the fact that we probably have to make more sacrifices together. The arguments have no meaning for you - whether this will be a reduction in your salary or bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen! Leave this economy alone, don't ruin it. Don't spoil it, ladies and gentlemen, because there's no good in it. Leave those commando companies alone. And I'm surprised about the Left. You signed together on the Animal Protection Act, and today you're creating a new coalition. The Polish United Right plus the new Left. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. [[Applause]] Read it right. Don't support PiS in ruining the economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u190	Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u191	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, as a club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition, we met with entrepreneurs who are based on this form of activity, on a limited partnership. Does the PiS government realise that this law slaughters tens of thousands of Polish family companies, which are based on this form of business activity? These are companies, which are the most honest part of the business operating in Poland. The meeting was attended by representatives and transport, and glass products, and lawyers. Everyone raises the volume, everyone doesn't like your bill. What arguments do you find to convince us today to support this bill? Transporters say today that this is the fourth plague that meets them. After the issue of the COVID, after the implementation of the cross-border directive, with which (the bell) you failed in the European Parliament, after the Animal Law, especially in the case of transporters serving special transport... Finish your work, sir. ...tonight - a new tax for limited companies. How can you explain that at first you wrote a constitution for business and today you cut the legs of the most honest Polish entrepreneurs? Go ahead and finish it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment ago... Today, the PiS attacks Polish agriculture, Polish meat industry, Polish poultry industry. Due to the bill five for animals in very bad condition will be placed, in a very bad situation there will also be Polish logistics. We now see another attack on Polish family companies and their destruction. This law introduces double taxation of revenue from limited companies. The law is so absurd that it will promote foreign entities in Poland, which will not be taxed twice, but will be taxed double Polish economic entities. We have an agreement banning double taxation between Poland and Germany. Should these entities move to Germany? It is known that this bill will have only one effect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] liquidation of 40 000 Polish entities, family companies, which could hardly build their capital and Polish economy. This is a bill that's really good for basketball. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u195	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to call on PSL-Kukiz15 Members not to mislead the public. I told you on behalf of the Left Club that we were negative about this bill, and I explained in quite detail why. I wanted to ask the government what kind of mechanism it intends to put in place that will compensate local governments for the income they lost as a result of this bill. Just now, Mr Tomaszewski said it would be almost 1.5 billion a year. I wanted to ask if the government would listen to the Ministry of Development, which has negatively assessed this project or not. Apart from the Ministry of Development - this has already been quoted here - all economic associations, over 70, have given a negative opinion on this project after a two-day consultation, including a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. I wanted to ask secondly and thirdly: Why doesn't the government listen to the opinions of the people they are consulting, and why was the consultation on such an important issue two days ago? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We are discussing taxes and their impact on the economic activity of individual entrepreneurs, but at the same time it is worth asking about the financial consequences of these changes. For the state budget it will increase revenue by nearly PLN 2 billion per year, while for local government units - almost PLN 1.5 billion loss or loss of income per year. I didn't find any information on how the government was going to compensate for these losses to local governments. There is no information on this subject, but regularly local governments add to their tasks and take money. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How does the government intend to compensate for these shortages? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a law on the plundering of the Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurs by politicians of Law and Justice. First of all, facts. There are over 40,000 in Poland. limited companies that employ almost 3 million employees. This is the foundation of our economy. What are you telling them? If you're working hard, if you're making money, we're gonna pay you back. First question: Why do you treat entrepreneurs as potential frauds as thieves? What does the term "aggressive tax optimizers" mean in the statement of reasons? Secondly, did any of you at the Ministry check whether this bill would lead to an increase in unemployment, block investment, reduce employees' salaries? What's the rush on this bill? Why did the consultation last only two days? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u200	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're nothing but liars. On July 1st, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that President Duda is the guarantee of not raising taxes in Poland. On July 8, President Andrzej Duda, during the campaign, said that he would always move towards reducing taxes. A few months have passed, you have lied to the Poles and you have no honor to stand before them - for there is not a single Member of the Law and Justice - to look Poles in the eye and say: yes, we raise taxes for you. In 2 years you have led to Polish debt of 400 billion and want to burden these honestly working Poles. 2.5 million Poles working abroad will have to pay additional tax in Poland at the expense of their families. 72,000. Polish entrepreneurs who employ 3 million employees will no longer compete so well with foreign companies, because foreign companies have [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only 1% the market in limited companies. Apologize to Poles and withdraw this harmful act for the economy and for Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u202	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u203	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! In your sub-secretary's speech, the word "unfair" was constantly duplicated. The dishonest ones, the dishonest ones, it turns out that only in the government are crystals. [[Applause]] But I would like to remind you that entrepreneurs want to pay taxes in Poland simple and fair, and fair. You may not know, but most of the current limited companies are Polish entities. A lot of them have grown so much that they are effectively fighting for a place on our market with foreign entities. Instead of supporting them, you consistently weaken them. The taxation of limited partnership companies will serve only to cover the budget hole that the crystal representatives of the government simply generated. The total tax paid by these companies is in real terms between 34 and 35%. These changes are supposed to come in January 1. I don't know if you guys used to run a company. Business budgets are already planned and these changes are too sudden for them, too difficult to carry out. That's gonna cause them a huge crisis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The limited partnership is a company for difficult times. Such a difficult time we have now. The state should support them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u204	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of companies at a time of pandemic is really very difficult. In companies, revenues fall, profits fall, and expenses grow. A lot of companies have to fire workers, some of them go bankrupt. And it is absolutely outrageous that in these difficult pandemic times you are trying to impose another tax on limited companies in Poland, which is almost 50,000, which will reduce the attractiveness of these companies and their competitiveness. In your explanatory statement, you write about aggressive tax optimization. The wording itself is harmful because these companies operate on the basis of Polish law. It's like punishing all drivers for one speeding. You also write that it is foreign capital, but only 3% of these companies have foreign capital. The Act also creates deep disparities between Polish limited companies and foreign companies. Therefore, you are reducing their competitiveness vis-à-vis the foreign counterparts of such companies. The organization of entrepreneurs warns that this will not contribute to budget growth, but only cause a wave of collapses of limited companies, transformations and transition into a grey zone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What really is behind your actions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u206	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u207	Dear Marshal! Ministers! This actual liquidation, High Izbo, the limited companies, is an absolutely disgraceful idea. Prime Minister Morawiecki, who, kneeling in front of foreign corporations, promised them that he would not tax them, now in an absolutely insolent way reaches into the pockets of Polish small family companies, because it is these Polish small family companies that are concerned. They're not big foreign corporations who don't pay taxes, even though they're trying to get us all to. 97% limited companies are Polish companies, small family companies. Moreover, they chose taxation to pay taxes, only to pay objectively simpler ones. Today, however, when the government says that it cannot tax these foreign companies, it reaches into the pockets of these Polish small companies. This project, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be repaired. I hope the government comes to their senses and withdraws from this disgraceful project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But today, when you hit Polish companies so hard, you have to ask: Why does the PIS, why does Morawiecki's government hate Polish small companies so much that it wants to eliminate them all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is an outrageous bill that should be immediately withdrawn from the proceedings in the Seym. An hour ago, you were moming entrepreneurs that some pseudoeston PIT was for them to ease their work. And here we have a Polish solution, which is used by as many companies as you plan to transfer to this Estonian CIT. You simply slaughter companies that operate legally, pay taxes legally within the framework of a system that is built in Poland. Maybe that's what you need to brag about, not invent pseudoeston CIT? It is precisely this solution that can be the Polish Estonian CIT, if so many companies choose such a way of taxing. Think about it, because the welfare and income of the state come from work. It bothers you. You print money for power, and you think you're gonna keep taking money out of entrepreneurs forever. It's gonna collapse. It's not gonna work. Get out of this, I beg you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u211	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! PiS wants this project quietly today, secretly punishing 40 grand. Polish entrepreneurs... Scandal! ...and toss more money out of their pockets to patch up the budget hole. First of all, you have to save money. The PiS authority speaks a lot about Poland, about Polish companies, about support for Poland. We can see what is the support for Polish companies. What are you doing for these Polish companies? Minister! I'd like to ask how many of those 40,000. Polish limited companies registered in Poland have Polish capital and how much foreign capital. I would also like to ask, because you are talking about good changes, that there is a lower CIT tax, how many companies will benefit from this lower CIT tax. How many companies would that be? How much will this change really make for entrepreneurs and how many will it be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project is bad, this project is outrageous. It was scandalous to proceed on this project. We will oppose this project, and we will not leave it so that it will be quietly settled in the Sejm. Even if there's no PiS in this room, we're gonna scream loudly. The Civic Coalition will always be with entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today we have two more records: a record for the number of patients with COVID-19 and a record of deaths. The companies today are really worried about another freezing economy. They're afraid their lives will go up in smoke, because another stop in generating revenue will just mean their bankruptcy. Similarly, citizens have a renewed fear of losing their jobs, both those living in the country and those outside our borders. They left because they couldn't find a good job here. What's the government doing today? He taxes both the group and the group. You're really special on the map of the world and the map of Europe. While in other countries life is facilitated for people, entrepreneurs, tax cuts, you work on two basic symbols (the bell), the symbols of the PiS government: first, the avalanche increase in the country's debt, second, the avalanche increase in the number of taxes in the national tax system. You have no right to say that you are lowering taxes for Poles, because you are... Thank you. ...systematically adding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u214	And please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, representatives of the limited companies who hosted the Polish Coalition club presented data showing that more than 99% of the limited companies are business activities related to our economy. You're trying to deny it by proving that the limited partnership is some kind of foreign capital, they're some kind of speculator. That's not true. Although I can see that you are effective, because even some of the representatives of the Left, like Mr Necessary, are caught up in this. But don't go, my friends from the Left, this way, because it's not true. These are Polish entrepreneurs. Finally, I would like to ask for a written answer: How many foreign entrepreneurs run commando companies in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Jan Sarnowski for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Starting with the issue of abolition relief, I would also like to remind the honourable Members that the abolition allowance applies to Polish tax residents, i.e. people who live in Poland for more than 183 days, i.e. more than six months. Currently, it leads to a situation in which their income abroad is not taxed in any way in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the new principle of settlement, the principle promoted by the OECD, which Poland has committed to implement, operates in many countries of the European Union. Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, Austria, Lithuania and Slovakia also accepted it. These are the countries in which it already operates, and these are also those in which the Pole working, competing with the inhabitants of other countries also operating there, will be taxed on a similar basis, i.e. on the basis of crediting the tax paid on on-the-spot work towards the tax payable at the place of his permanent residence, where he lives more than half a year - in the case of abolition relief in Poland. As regards seafarers, ladies and gentlemen, a change has been introduced in the course of government work to exempt certain professional groups from changes in the abolition allowance. First of all, it is those who do not carry out their activities in the land territory of the country in which they work. Therefore, sailors will not be affected by changes in the abolition relief. As for the economy during the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, what companies now need is three things. Firstly, low taxation - low taxation, which, first, will give companies a safety cushion, second, will provide them with investment funds. Secondly, it is a simplicity of settlement - the simplicity of settlement, which will provide universal access to the lump sum and Estonian CIT for companies that are developing next year. And thirdly, level playing field, i.e. the issue of equal rules for the smallest companies and for larger companies that can afford the support of tax advisors and which can also engage in optimization schemes. In total, 400 000 will benefit from the changes proposed by us next year. entrepreneurs. Some changes will affect 40,000, which is 10 times less, and this will not always be a negative change. The sealing changes, including the taxation of limited companies, will bring PLN 2 billion to the budget. In total, the whole package of reductions planned for next year is PLN 7 billion, which will remain in the pockets of entrepreneurs. This means that a package of seals in just over 1/4 will compensate for the tax reductions planned for next year. Where did the changes in the limited partnership come from? According to the audit data carried out by the tax administration registered in Poland, limited limited liability companies are increasingly a vehicle used to bring funds to tax havens, and they do so through transactions with related entities registered there. This applies both to those companies whose owners are entities registered in tax havens, which are actually very few, as well as to those whose owners are Poles - Poles who are also shareholders or are managers in entities registered in the Netherlands, Cyprus or Luxembourg. According to data from the National Tax Administration of the MDRs, the practice of acting in the form of hybrid limited liability company and limited partnership is increasingly common. In such a scheme, the limited partnership is camouflage only the actual activity of an entrepreneur which is economically, economically and economically not different from the situation of a limited company. This is the same phenomenon that, six years ago, caused CIT to be covered by a limited partnership. In 2014 there were also arguments in the Sejm that the inclusion of CIT limited companies was a matter of elementary tax justice, that is, equality with law, constitutional issues. And it fell from the mouth of the then finance ministers who presented this project. This was not achieved simply because the limited liability company was not commonly used in the hybrid formula for tax avoidance. It's completely different now. This problem, which Poland notes, appears in many countries that are trying to fight it. This is supported by the OECD, which recommends the inclusion of CIT companies, which has already been done by 12 European Union countries, both in the West - Belgium and Spain, as well as in our region - Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. Does the inclusion of CIT in limited liability companies mean their liquidation, or does it mean that they are equalised with a limited liability company? Of course not. They will continue to serve the business to raise capital. Smaller companies won't feel change. CIT paid by the company will be deducted from the tax paid by the partners. The situation of the partner will not change, it will deduct the company tax from its own, and the commander will receive a free amount. In addition, due to almost a tenfold increase, twice, I apologize, to increase the limit on preferential rates 9% CIT will be covered by as many as 3/4 limited companies operating in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I talk to you for a second? Half a minute, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that foreign companies operating in Poland will as a result have a better competitive position than Polish companies. Remember, taxation of their income occurs not only in Poland, but also in the country of residence of foreign taxpayer, where it is often higher than in Poland. It is worth recalling the nominal tax rates: in France - 32%, in Portugal - 31.5% , in Germany - almost 30%, Italy - over 27%, Belgium, Spain, Austria - 25%. Ladies and gentlemen! You sometimes talk about the example of Germany. Indeed, there are limited companies in Germany, even in the hybrid formula with a limited liability company. But let's remember there's no linear rate of 19%. and this taxation at the level of the partner reaches up to 45% there, because this is how tax progression is established in Germany. Effective taxation of limited partnership companies will be much lower, even remotely lower in Poland than in Germany, given the situation that exists in Germany, as well as the dismissal of shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm bureau, proposes... I'm sorry. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the Government draft budget law for 2021 (print No 640). I ask the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting, I will present to the High House a draft budget law for 2021 adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September. The budget for 2021 was prepared taking into account the macroeconomic situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The violent inhibition of economic activity and the collapse of current trends forced the updating of budgetary and macroeconomic parameters and the launch of extraordinary tools to combat the effects of the pandemic. The key parameters contained in the Budget Act are a consequence of the current macroeconomic situation and our expectations and forecasts of its development over the next few months. In the 2021 budget, we provide funds for both pro-investment actions, so necessary for further economic success as well as for the continuation of social programmes that also mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic. I will briefly present to the High House the most important information on the draft state budget for 2021. Macroeconomic situation. The macroeconomic assumptions we have adopted are quite conservative. We assume that the gross domestic product will increase next year by 4%, which is a result similar to the forecasts of the National Bank of Poland, the European Commission and which falls within the range of market forecasts. This level is similar to that achieved in recent years. With regard to core labour market indicators, we expect the rate of recorded unemployment to rise to 8% at the end of this year and to fall to 7.5% at the end of next year. We assumed that the nominal growth rate of average wages in the national economy would be 3.5%. in the current year and 3,4% Next year. At the same time, we expect an annual average price increase of 3.3% for consumer goods and services this year, and by 1.8% next year. We assume that in the following years, the average annual inflation rate changes will gradually move towards the NBP inflation target, i.e. 2.5%. The level of revenue of the state budget next year will be determined by the expected return of the economy to growth. We estimate that the total revenue of the state budget in 2021 will amount to PLN 404.4 billion. The income side will be affected by further and new measures to support the recovery of economic growth. Tax revenues are expected to increase by 5.5% next year after the expected fall this year. and will amount to PLN 369.1 billion. The budgetary ceiling set in the draft law for the year 2021 is PLN 486.7 billion and is less than the proposed amendment of the budget law for the current year by more than 21 billion, i.e. 4.2%. This amount secures resources for the continuation of priority actions including, inter alia, increasing expenditure on health, science and national defence. The budget for next year will return to applying the limits set by the stabilising expenditure rule, albeit in a revised form. According to the clause, half of the projected financial impact of actions directly targeted at halting the impact of the epidemic this year has been taken into account. In its original form, the rule will apply in 2022. The deficit of the state budget will amount to PLN 82.3 billion. This is about PLN 27 billion less than in the draft revision of the budget law for 2020. On the other hand, the general government deficit calculated according to the Union methodology is forecast at around 6%. GDP. The planned amount of public sovereign debt at the end of 2021 is around 1242 billion, i.e. 52.7% GDP. The increase in debt is mainly due to expenditure related to the crisis shield and the financial shield, i.e. expenditure on rescuing businesses and jobs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Seym! The draft budget law for 2021 is the next step in the plan to return to the growth path of the global lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to pursue a budgetary policy based on supporting economic recovery and a return to growth while maintaining the security of public finances. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Please accept the draft budget for 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u220	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u221	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The budget for 2021 is constructed under the most difficult economic conditions, which have not been met in many years. Polish, European and world economies are probably experiencing the biggest crisis since World War II. In 2020 we see a drop in GDP in developed countries of around 10%. , and in large European Union countries such as Italy, Spain and France, this decline is estimated to be 13%. Against this background, the projected decline in GDP in Poland in 2020, i.e. approx. 4% , is really an optimistic phenomenon. Come on, the epidemic wasn't supposed to affect us either. Madame, you can listen calmly instead of disturbing, because you don't really discuss with numbers. If you have another interpretation, you'll have a chance to talk about it here. The Seym is a debate. But those are the facts. I know that they may not like it, because indeed Poland is doing great against other countries in this economic, economic situation caused by the effects of the pandemic. Of course, the construction of the 2021 budget makes it really difficult to predict real economic events as the pandemic continues to develop. The current significant increase in disease is certainly worrying. What's it gonna look like? How long will it take? Everyone's asking themselves that question. Will 2021 be free of this? Will the number of diseases be falling? Will the economy grow? Can we avoid another lockdown? Because it's a danger, too. We have seen the economic impact particularly in the second quarter of this year, so if this situation were to occur again in 2021, I think that budgetary assumptions may be affected. These are questions I don't think anyone can answer right now. The Ministry of Finance, taking into account these uncertainties, has constructed the budget for 2021 in an extremely responsible manner, I would say, although this was a very difficult task. The macro-economic assumptions adopted in the draft describe as reasonable, reasonable under these conditions, based on forecasts that economic growth - of course, a growth comparable to 2020 - will return after a moderate recession in 2021, and this is not even an economic growth comparable to 2019, but this project is forecasting an economic growth of 4% compared to 2020 GDP. These assumptions, you might say, are optimistic, but also very real. Similarly, unemployment is expected to increase, but in a very moderate way to 7.5%. This is expected at the end of the year, so it's probably even better than it was two or three months ago. I think that the impact on the level of unemployment, employment, and thus on budgetary finances - because it is not only the budget, but also the contributions in other funds - causes that... It is this level of unemployment, which is so slowly growing, that we can look with optimism at 2021. Given these forecasts of GDP growth and unemployment, the estimated revenue is planned at a realistic level as in 2020, so it is undoubtedly a very cautious forecast, but such a cautious forecast gives greater certainty about its implementation without correction during the financial year. Because, of course, the correction that affected the 2020 budget was a natural phenomenon and the effect of a pandemic that could not be predicted, no one predicted this pandemic at the time when the 2020 budget was adopted. Budget expenditure is to be really lower than expenditure in 2020, i.e. according to this revised budget, but also to be higher than 2019. This increase in budget expenditure compared to 2019 shows that this is the activity of the state in the fight against the consequences of the crisis. A budget deficit of up to PLN 82 billion is naturally emerging, i.e. 3.5% GDP. Of course, it is a deficit incomparable with years before 2019 or previous years, when Law and Justice ruled, but it can be said, looking optimisticly at the comparison that it is, however, less than what is planned in 2020 after the revision of the budget. Because in 2019 the budget deficit was only 14 billion, that was 0.6% GDP, and now, let me remind you, that's 3.5%. More importantly, the government debt-to-GDP ratio is projected to rise to 52.7% and, of course, this is a significant increase in relation to what was still at the end of 2019, but it really is still quite far, quite significant margin in relation to the constitutional threshold. So if the next years are years of return to normal economic conditions, this means that this level is really still very safe. Let me remind you that our predecessors had a debt exceeding 55% GDP and then, grabbing 150 billion from OFE (Mounting in the Chamber), they saved themselves from overshooting the 60% level, while no one was talking about such an unprecedented crisis at the time. So the situation we're in right now is that the safety margin is even higher than 7%. this security margin within the constitutional threshold, which was already when we were very dangerously close to the set level of debt. So you can see very clearly that we have a significant safety margin. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Of course, it is very necessary and everyone knows that because debt vis-à-vis GDP has steadily decreased, year by year, but it is precisely because it has been decreasing over the past years, now we have this margin and there is the possibility of active intervention in the economy. This is extremely important. At a time of such crisis, an active economy, which is mainly aimed at maintaining jobs, is extremely needed because these jobs later provide not only the impact of taxes on the budget, but also various types of contributions, of course the largest for the Social Insurance Fund. As a result, the revenue of the state budget of PLN 44.5 billion, expenditure of PLN 487 billion, i.e. deficit of PLN 82.3 billion, was planned. The most interesting thing is that these expenditures have a place for all programmes which are programmes for consumption. A total of PLN 41 billion is planned for the 500+ family programme. Health expenditure is consistently increased, i.e. a law adopted 2 or 3 years ago, with an expenditure of 6%. GDP for health, is implemented systematically, 5.3% are planned for next year GDP. So this is only in relation to the amounts resulting from the implementation of this law, an additional amount of more than PLN 11 billion, which will be allocated to the health department. Of course, it does not give up on the valorisation of pensions, which is expected to be almost 4%, so it is an additional amount of PLN 9 billion. It is important that consumption for the poorest part of society is not slowed down. Good start program - over a billion zlotys. Implementation of national defence expenditure in accordance with our ally commitments - over PLN 50 billion, including over PLN 15 billion are property expenditure, i.e. those that really increase our security. It is not planned to slow down the implementation of multiannual programmes, for 2021 the amount of more than PLN 10 billion is planned. Continuing the implementation of the excavation or the waterway, rather that's what we call it, by the Vistula Land - for 2021 the amount of PLN 700 million is planned. Museum of Polish History - almost PLN 150 million. Campus of the Music Academy in Bydgoszcz - PLN 115 million. Program: Uniwersytet Warszawski - 130 million are planned for next year. With regard to the strategic reserve programme, an amount of 274 billion is planned for next year, which is extremely important in this respect, when there is a sudden need for aid for rapid response. Program: school meal - 550 million. They used to say that children can't be hungry, so there's no savings in that. I will also list expenditure on the implementation of the national road and motorway construction programme for 2021. - only from the budget almost PLN 5 billion. This is also responsible for the implementation of the railway programme, where another PLN 2 billion is planned for next year, again from the budget, or funding for the management of railway infrastructure - over PLN 600 million. Now, another very important thing I'd like to focus on. It's a donation to the Social Security Fund. Looking at the experience we all have... I remember perfectly well from the Committee on Public Finance, as in 2008, mainly, 2009, 2010 the Social Insurance Fund did not receive subsidies from the state budget to hide the deficit, but owed itself. The loans from the Social Insurance Fund were 30 billion and more. However, here in a very transparent, transparent way, the deficiencies in the Social Insurance Fund - because they are, were and will be - are financed by a grant from the state budget. 125 billion. This is now a clear, fair presentation: a grant from the state budget. There is no hidden deficit of the Social Insurance Fund, but it is a deficit of the state budget, because the planned grant to the Social Insurance Fund for 2021 is almost PLN 60 billion. Social Insurance Fund loans are not assumed as they were in previous years. The grant is complemented by shortages and this is obvious. 126 is added to the gasoline. I know comparing those years isn't your taste, but, well, that's the facts. It is worth recalling them, because despite a very difficult situation, the government does not do such tricks, only if there is a shortage in the Social Insurance Fund, this deficiency complements with a grant and this is seen in the deficit of the state budget. And you could say, let the Social Insurance Fund borrow 50 billion, the government budget deficit would be 30 billion, not 80 billion. Could you do that? You can, but we don't do it like that, and it's extremely valuable. Of course, grants to the KRUS Pension Fund. Here it is traditionally maintained in an excellent majority of grants - 18,5 billion PLN. Also subsidising the Pension Fund for 2021, 1325 million PLN. It is also extremely important that we keep spending on the Self-Government Road Fund. This is PLN 6.3 billion for next year. Let me just remind you that this is an extremely important aid for local governments (the bell) who need financial resources to continue their investments. Or even the Development Fund for bus transport, the passenger, the public. This is intended for the next year 800 million PLN. We raised the bill not so long ago the rate for 1 km. Today. This means that public transport in less urbanized areas... You are very close to the end, sir. ...excellently functioning. So it is very clear that in these very difficult times the government has prepared a very responsible budget. Of course, the Law and Justice Club will support this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u222	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Every crisis, including the one caused by the pandemic, is an exam for the government. Unfortunately, the PiS exam failed. The state's finances are proof of this, and the end of the epidemic is not yet seen. If it weren't for Poland, I'd probably have the satisfaction. From this speaker I have warned many times that you must not recklessly spend money that you do not have. This irresponsible attitude towards taxpayers' money caused that after 5 years of running the PiS, he brought to the Sejm a draft budget, with a cumulative deficit of PLN 409.5 billion from 2 years, 2020. Indeed, you are right, Mr President, not to argue with numbers. Such a deficit should be like a bucket of cold water for the next election campaigns of the head of the populist PiS government. Unfortunately, for 2021, we have again recorded sustainable expenditure without income. No one has ever devastated state finances like the PiS. [[Applause]] This budget isn't a forecast either. Rather, it's a mixture of pious wishes, deceptions and manipulations. The first fraud is low inflation. After all, we all know that she is, in fact, the highest in the European Union. The second fraud is an overgrowth of GDP. Of course, these two cheats, one down, the other up, for the budget, they'll probably come up at zero. The problem is that taxpayers will pay for it from their own pockets, because VAT money will be more than budgeted, because inflation will be higher than assumed. Third fraud is traditionally an overinvestment. As far as investments are concerned, Prime Minister Morawiecki and PiS live in some parallel reality. They think what they called responsible development and four years ago they showed in slides, it happened. And yet you didn't make any - I'll repeat - no investment. Tell me how it is that we did it, and you're not doing anything about investment. Recently, Deputy Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz called on Poles for ideas for the implementation and development of money from the National Plan for Reconstruction. It was like an act of despair. Do you want to invest in the form of a common movement? To sum up, inflation from the ceiling, GDP growth from the ceiling, investment from the ceiling. The fourth lie of this budget is also from the ceiling. These are expenses. After all, they have nothing to do with reality. After all, there are not tens of billions of zlotys in this budget that the government plans to spend in 2021. Why? In order for President Kowalczyk to stand here and say that this huge deficit, which will amount to over 82 billion next year, is less than the deficit of PLN 110 billion this year. Mr. Speaker! That's not true. Check your entire sector's deficit. He's taller next year than he is this year. The fifth fraud of this budget is that from year to year you finance more and more out of the budget. You're bragging about that ZUS you're gonna pay for this year... Attention, do you know how much after a great reform of reducing the retirement age? PLN 125 billion. The bad news, especially for young Poles, is that every year we will pay more for pensions and pensions. And this is the legacy of your populist government. On the other hand, by returning to this another fraud, i.e. expenditure financed from outside the budget, I would like to say that PiS has multiplied so many agencies, funds, state-owned legal entities, that no one knows who, how much and for what it spends. The finance minister has no idea. The Greek Finance Minister had exactly the same knowledge of finance when they questioned him at the Ecofin meeting in 2010, and he simply had no idea at all about the real state of these finances. And finally, the last lie I'm about to tell, because the fact that we have 15 minutes, it's a joke at all, but not from the High House, it's a mockery of the citizens, which is the last lie I'm about to tell, is a lie about tax reduction. We're still hearing, we're gonna lower PIT, we're gonna lower CIT. If you compare the new taxes you introduce: sugar, retail and power charge, do you know how much Poles will earn to reduce PiS taxes? They must spend out of their pockets, they will bring you 7700 million more in taxes next year. You will talk about health, Dr Hok, so let me just say, Mr Hok, that you do not even give 5.3%. In my question, I'll explain why. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u224	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget for 2021 assumes the second largest deficit in history, after this year's budget. But in the explanatory memorandum there is no reason to look for reasons why this deficit is to be as high as PLN 82 billion, or 4%. GDP roughly. It is difficult to understand why with a 4% increase in GDP compared to the current year and a 5.5% increase in tax revenues the budgetary situation must be so bad. There are two explanations: either this is another example of the failure to rule the United Right, which even with the growth of 4% .4% really, it's 6%. nominally - it is unable to achieve sustainability of finances, or we are simply dealing with the continuation of this year's policy of jumping into money under the pretext of pandemics. This money heist is possible thanks to all the manipulations that Mrs Leszczyn has already mentioned in part, and which I am about to develop shortly. It is these accounting manipulations whose main purpose is to obscure the picture of public finances and make it seem that it is much better than in reality. It was mentioned here before noon during the debate about this year's novel, the novel of this year's budget, the suspension of the stabilisation of the expenditure rule and the consequences of this movement - the consequence is that you simply have a free hand in spending money - that at the moment the only existing brake on your expenditure is the constitutional limit of debt, which is also at risk. But the best proof of your creative accounting is that public debt data are collapsing according to national definition and EU definition. This and next year the debt according to the national methodology is expected to increase by more than PLN 250 billion, as Mr Kowalczyk said, but according to the EU methodology it is to increase by more than PLN 465 billion. You are very eager to use national methodology to simply lower the actual size of the debt and deceive Poles about how much you really owe them, their children and their grandchildren. Last year the difference between the state public debt according to the Polish definition and EDP amounted to PLN 55 billion, was within the average of the last few years. Next year it will be a difference of up to PLN 270 billion. It's just that all the expenses that you don't think can be financed by the budget anymore, just to keep a good impression, you're now moving to parts outside the public finance sector. First of all, they are. it is, of course, expenditure related to borrowing by the COVID fund and by the Polish Development Fund. So the reason for these discrepancies is your shady policy of moving these expenditures out of the public finance sector set out in the Act. But the methodology based on this definition is simply getting less reliable and does not show the real size of the debt. On the other hand, the EU methodology, which is more objective and unified for the Union as a whole, shows that at the end of next year the debt will amount to PLN 1510 billion and it will not be 52% or 54% GDP, only 64% GDP, Mr President, and that means that this debt is well above the constitutional level. This also means that only in the two years 2020 and 2021 there will be an increase in public debt by as much as 18%. GDP. Nobody's ever been in debt in their lives. Poland for such a large amount in such a short time. You are well aware that you would have to stand before the Constitutional Tribunal if the actual size of the debt had been shown. But because you're afraid of it, you do all kinds of tricks to hide the actual state of public finances. This is the Greek way, and it'll end the same if you don't come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Five years ago, PiS went to the election with the motto of the liquidation of the National Health Fund. The state budget was to take over the financing of Polish health care. That's not what happened. Today, health protection continues to be maintained, funded by citizens, Poles, all patients who pay health contributions - that is the main financing of health protection. [[Applause]] The few billion in the budget you're talking about is really a drop in the sea of needs. Today Polish hospitals are indebted to PLN 16 billion, of which approx. 3 billion are outstanding liabilities whose payment deadlines have long passed. Today, Polish hospitals are only due to the outbreak of COVID... In Silesia 23 county hospitals owed another 200 million PLN. You promised raises to all professional groups, while nurses, paramedics, lab workers, physiotherapists, paramedics, as well as administrative services are waiting in line. Those were promises. What do they get paid for? With the funding of the National Health Fund for hospital directors who have to wonder whether to buy oncology drugs or buy masks, or to cover the costs of rising gas charges, for light, for all deliveries? Today health protection in Poland lies completely. It's about oncology, psychiatry, child psychiatry. Dramas, suicides of young people, prolonged queues - were supposed to be different. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the underfunded health care system has the face of a tired medical worker, also has the face of a sad, confused and abandoned patient's health care system. Without a significant increase in health expenditure, he will never be able to cope with this dramatic situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the budget for next year at a very difficult time for the Polish economy, not just for the Polish economy. The PiS government has not completely prepared us at this moment and these two projects - this year's amendment and next year's budget - are the best proof of this. After 5 years of living on credit, irresponsible politics, disobeying experts and opposition, after 5 years of ignoring our economic amendments and draft laws, you present a budget showing a deep deficit and disaster. Already today, 33,000 per capita. zł public debt. If we divide this amount into employees, we have 78,000. zł. That's a 14,000 increase. PLN compared to the previous year and by as much as 21 thousand. in five years, and yet there was an economic downturn. 2021 will be the year of economic reflection. That is what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said at the September press conference. Then let's see how that reflection looks, Prime Minister. A deficit of 82.3 billion is equivalent to two 500+ programmes per child. Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that the cumulative deficit at a time of great economic prosperity in 2016 and 2019 was 95,7 billion. PiS has indebted the Polish state on an unprecedented scale, and the increase in investment, listen to the country, is only about 4%. Let me remind you that one of the priorities of Morawiecki's plan was to increase the investment rate. Do you remember the strategy for responsible development? This is one of the developmental traps indicated by Prime Minister Morawiecki. He founded 25% In the meantime, how much is it? Less than 19%. Ladies and gentlemen, inflation and other matters have already been discussed here. New taxes should be added to the problem of rising prices, which make the cost of living in Poland increasingly higher, and the projected increase in earnings is apparent. The PiS government has already introduced 34 new taxes - I will not exchange them, we all know about them. This will result in government debt levels exceeding 58% at the end of 2021 GDP and according to the EU methodology 64%. Five years ago, you started a fire in the Polish economy. Today it is a giant size and this budget you plan to put out this fire. The consequences will be mourned. The bill presented is anti-development. It is the result of your irresponsible economic policy. The saddest thing is that the effects will be borne by ordinary Poles, whom you talk so much about (the bell) and not by your colleagues pushed in companies of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing the draft budget for 2021, the sejm print No 640. To be honest, I have listened attentively to the speech of the President, who said in his first words that the experts were positive about this draft budget. I'd like to see what kind of experts they are, because if they really are, it's worth discussing. I have the impression that we are talking about this document, that it is rather a document that resembles fantastic literature at this moment, rather a science fiction novel than actually a document that reflects the real finance and a serious approach of the Polish government to the state's finances during the pandemic and after the pandemic, because I hope that we will deal with this problem soon. The truth is that if the pandemic really ends, the effects of this crisis will continue to be felt for many years, and that is why today there is a need to make wise and calm, balanced decisions. This budget, unfortunately, feels like it doesn't have that kind of decision. It can be said that during the preparation of this budget Mr. Finance Minister hummed a song like a National Stadium: nothing happened, Poles, nothing happened. But it did happen, for example, after the revision of the 2020 budget and after this giant deficit, which is a fact today. We have the impression, unfortunately, that the rulers still believe that you can keep such creative accounting that you can create virtual budgets that you can create virtual forecasts and that all of this will be accepted. Therefore, at this moment as a Left we appeal to you, we demand to present the real, current financial situation of the Polish state. This is the moment when all Poles need to know what is really Poland's finances and what could possibly threaten us in the future. The truth is, it's better to know the worst truth than to live in an illusion world and cheat each other. The truth is, if we continue to do this, future generations, our successors, neither you nor you, will forgive us. So, Minister, today, first of all, we want to hear what the state's financial situation really is. There's already been a discussion about public debt, and we've talked about it here. Public debt reached 1,200 billion, and it is fair to say that it is 33,34,000. zł per head of every Pole to be clear - from infant to retired. The truth is that today every child born in Poland, also from the 500+ program, which you are so proud of, has 34,000. sovereign debt, which will undoubtedly have to pay for years of its work. The question is whether it's going to be enough or if there's going to be more. Of course, I am aware that we are aware that it is difficult to talk about the draft budget for 2021 today, because we have an amendment to this budget, and we do not really know what will happen by the end of the year, what macro-economic indicators will look like. Let me just remind you what the plan was in January this year, again, that it was to be a budget without a deficit. It turns out that there is already 109 billion PLN, but of course I know, we know this narrative, that it is the fault of COVID, it is the fault of pandemic. Sure, it certainly has a huge impact on that. I just want to point out, because you're making the same mistakes right now, in my opinion, that you've done the same thing with this zero-deficit budget, because some of these expenses -- in the form of loans, financial tricks, prepared by the finance minister, and it has to be appreciated -- are out of the budget. Just find out how the 13th pension was paid. If we want to find out, we can find out. A loan from the state budget to the Demographic Reserve Fund, the Demographic Reserve Fund lends to the Solidarity Fund, then the Solidarity Fund pays the thirteenth pension. The only problem is that loans usually have to be repaid, that 9 billion as a problem remains. He will, of course, be resolved in these documents and you can see how, but I will still keep you in uncertainty, and I will finally say it. We are afraid that this will be the same with the 2021 budget, the same maneuvers used, the same assumptions. Here the revenue plan is at 404 billion, expenditure - 486 billion, deficit planned at 82 billion PLN. And today the question arises in this context: Is it a real deficit, or is it sometimes not going to be bigger? The question is also raised: Does the government and the ruling majority have an idea for the Polish economy after the pandemic? Is it an idea to raise taxes? Is it an idea to stop the investment? Does the 2021 budget really answer the question of how we will cope economically as Poland after this great crisis? And for the record, the answer is very simple. This draft budget at this stage - but I believe that the Minister is listening to these voices, and I believe that he will also draw conclusions from it - this budget does not answer any of these questions. Because in our opinion, and this is what the Polish Left says, today the budget for the crisis, the budget for the time after the pandemic, the budget for 2021 should be the budget, we call it, 3P - the pro-investment budget, the pro-work budget and the health budget. Because today we are dealing with two crises in Poland - we are dealing with a health crisis and we are dealing with an economic crisis. And now let's see how we plan to deal with these two crises. As far as the income side is concerned, 6 billion more than in 2020, or 404 billion PLN. We have a large increase in VAT revenues, from 170 billion to 181 billion. Of course, this can be related to this economic situation. Question: "Is it real or unreal?" We have a drop in CIT revenue from 38,5 billion and we are planning CIT revenue of 37,1 billion. Of course, this can also be explained by one of the draft laws that is being processed today. As far as PIT is concerned, we are planning a large increase, and the question is therefore: Is the increase in PIT revenue the result of the planned increase in taxes or additional burdens on employees? With regard to the revenue of the budgetary units, we have in turn major changes in minus, this year - 31 billion, in 2021 - 23 billion, so the question arises: Is it really real? How does this relate to the planned 4% GDP growth and inflation at 2% ? I think time will tell. And here, too, we have reservations that perhaps these assumptions are not entirely real. In terms of debt growth, the planned debt increase in this budget for 31 December amounts to PLN 180 billion. There is no doubt that, especially in times of crisis, there is a real need for debt, perhaps this deficit should indeed be at this level, but there is a question of what we are spending this money on. For the sake of clarity, these funds from the budget deficit, these loans and these loans will certainly not be spent on increases for the budgetary sphere, because the wage rate in the budgetary area is planned to be 100% so far. We will not spend this on health protection, because it is really planned 5.3 of GDP in terms of health protection, so we will still be at the gray end when it comes to health expenditure in the European Union countries. Therefore, these measures, even though there is a pandemic and a crisis, will not be spent on this. What are we spending on? Well, planned expenditure - 486 billion, including wealth - 23 billion. What's going on? We spend 15 billion on property expenses related to the Polish Armed Forces. The question is whether this is the most important problem today. Are we really going to fight the coronavirus with F-35 or cannons or guns? You don't know why you're doing this, because 63% all planned investments will be carried out by the military. In addition, expenditure on road property in this context this is the amount of PLN 1.43 billion. I know that Mr President was talking here about 6 billion, but we are about to see what is going on around this budget, and we will see that this 6 billion is also illusory. But just so we're clear, we can afford to transfer securities to public television for PLN 1.95 billion. We therefore continue to make the same mistakes we made in 2020. As far as debt management is concerned - 28 billion PLN, this will cost us so much for this service of public debt. Grants for local governments - PLN 70 billion, education - 52 billion. It seems that it is a lot, but if we count these losses and losses in government income in 2020, it is not so much. But in all of this, we really need to realise one thing: that in fact there are two separate budgets outside this budget. And let's take a look at this because it requires an absolutely deep analysis, because it's hundreds of billions of zlotys. So, we have an assumed deficit for the Social Insurance Fund at the level of PLN 12 billion, the Self-Government Road Fund - indeed this 1.4 billion is in the budget, but you plan that this fund will have minus PLN 5.5 billion at the end, only this PLN 5.5 billion will have to be paid. There's a capital investment fund that's been dead so far, and now you're predicting that you're going to spend 600 million on some kind of stock. The question is, for what? Do you want to buy TVN or do you want to buy other private media? I don't know, it's a matter of wondering if this is the best thing to do in a pandemic period. Many of these out-of-budget units assume losses, so that it is clear that sooner or later, in one way or another, they will return to the budget and there is no doubt about it. Because if the National Environment Fund is assuming at the end of 2021 minus 2.5 billion, the Social Security Office - minus 1 billion, then all this is going to burden the Polish budget. Finally, there is a solution to this mystery, which I said at the beginning - the Solidarity Fund. As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, as we look at it, this is a plan of 11 billion deficits. Well, what's the 11 billion deficit? Something's got to happen, because there's 11 billion, something's got to happen. So if we look at the next bill, it turns out that's where it happens. It's just that all these loans are canceled there, so when it comes to this whole mess at the beginning about a balanced budget, it turns out here that it wasn't so balanced, we were just taking out loans that we're, in short, canceling out today. I'm done. It's a virtual budget. Therefore, we appeal to the Minister: let's get down on the ground, let's get out of this financial space. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and let us actually work on a pro-investment, pro-worker and health-promoting budget. Only such a budget will support the Polish Left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u232	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft budget for 2021 should be the next step in the plan to return to growth on the global, European, national lockdowns caused by COVID-19. I name the world here, Europe, the country, because these economies are connected. The problem is, we have a second wave of pandemics. We do not know what the health impact will be on society and the economy, how it will translate into the situation of public finances. The government expects GDP to rise by 4% next year, in relation, of course, to 2020. And in 2020 there is a decline compared to 2019, we need to take this into account. Of course, there are also optimistic assumptions of the government about pro-investment actions, the continuation of social programmes, as we are about to do. On the other hand, if you look at numbers, I would like to emphasise once again that debt, debt from the public finance sector, according to the EU methodology, will be 6%. , and debt at 64.7% GDP. They're already big. Of course, we understand the complexity of the situation, the fact that there are so many unknowns when planning the 2021 budget, which is the situation. Because the situation is special. This is why we need to talk more about continuity, because this morning we talked about it and we will vote later on amending the 2020 budget. It has to be connected. Of course, this is what I was talking about: the government intends to continue the priority socio-economic policy programmes. I won't replace them, they're widely known. But somehow I haven't read the amount of funding for housing tasks. We know what living for young people is, for stability, which is extremely important. Similarly, there is no more information on the tasks, how will be financed, what areas - from the Solidarity Fund. It's also about funding higher education, but I just don't think they can be here because it's not exactly defined. Finally, debt issues. Professor Rosati mentioned this. This greatness is indeed... We are approaching a size that is already frightening when it comes to debt that we will have at the end of 2021. However, it must be said that we have not taken advantage of the opportunity - whether we have wasted it - to reduce debt in good economic years 2016.2019. Finally, I would like to move on to the problems of financial transparency. It is difficult to demonstrate some future expenditure in 2021 in this year's budget, when, as we know, we do not have an expenditure rule. So a strategy has been invented to pack up to the maximum of this year's budget expenditure on paper, which, due to the lack of time, cannot be realized during this quarter. So it's cleverly done, because we're going to have a budget bookmark this year, where we're going to loosen up the spending rule for next year. As far as PIT is concerned, it is estimated that there will be 68 billion of it. Of course, with regard to the fact that this is more than in 2020, but much less than in 2019. We have a similar situation when it comes to the VAT problem. As regards the relationship between future revenues and this year's receipts, we must take into account that taxes are linked to the state of employment, that the growth of the shadow economy and that in a period of crisis these taxes are always lower. Therefore, I think that these assumptions for 2021 are too optimistic. Nor is there any proposal to abolish the capital gains tax. As far as the Estonian CIT system is concerned, this was the case. It was mentioned that there was a commercial tax. The sugar tax's gonna come in, too. The reduction of the abolition allowance was also mentioned, including the limited limited liability companies. We also talked about the extra tax burden. There will be a higher subscription when it comes to radio and television. The fees will be higher: spa, market, property. Even higher will be the dog tax. This is, of course, an attempt to raise funds to improve the state of the budget. Some chances are that our functioning on the EU market is linked to a certain dependence on what is happening in the German economy or in other economies. We have the biggest link with the German economy, which is still doing well during this period of crisis, which will also translate into co-operation opportunities of Polish companies and companies. Some hopes are that we are lagging behind in the implementation of spending from the financial perspective of 2014. They are still in the game, and the Union has loosened the spending system. This situation, as far as this decrease in investment is concerned, is therefore improved by the increase in investments of these outstanding EU funds. On the other hand, I have already talked about other funds. As far as the Fair Transformation Fund is concerned, the amount of funds is much lower than we could have received. That didn't work out for our negotiators. On the other hand, with regard to the reconstruction fund and the financial perspective of 2014.2020, this will be delayed. This will only enter after 2021, because it is still the subject of the game, although it must be concluded that even if we add funds from the perspective 2021 to the recovery fund, it is less than in the financial perspective 2014.2020 at fixed prices. In summary, we would like to say that all these changes need to be used to restructure the economy, because it cannot be as it was. There must be a new restructuring approach that will modernise the economy, innovation and meet the requirements of smart development. My greatest concern is the division of the new government, the renewed government or the new government. I am very interested in how much the ideas, the development, the strategy will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and how much the Ministry of Development will be responsible for. It is simply important for the author to be responsible people to watch over the changes being made, because these changes are at the same time a transformation of the economy and not just a fight against the economic crisis. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A good state budget is a budget that meets the needs of the people of the country concerned. In analysing this budget, which the Minister has proposed, it is difficult to feel that it actually meets these needs. One example that has already been set in this House: today, the needs are on the side of health policy, not defence policy, Minister. The 2.2% GDP for defence is too much for today. Our request, the request of the Polish Coalition, by 6,8% GDP on health care, health policy today seems, for these times, to these challenges, to be called upon. The question is why he doesn't find understanding on the government's side. I am afraid that the Prime Minister's words still have a very significant mental impact, that the epidemic has already gone, that it is not necessary to fear it. The budget seems to be the answer to the Prime Minister's slogan during the election campaign. As far as agriculture is concerned, Minister, perhaps you are far from those agricultural issues, with the challenges facing agri-food markets. Probably it is also a little bit so that the new minister starts the process of closing the Polish agriculture, because one law has almost succeeded, but the 80% reduction in the level of budget resources to stabilise agricultural markets in relation to 2020 is a scandal. Minister, you may not know this, but the African swine fever virus is beginning to decimate Polish pig breeding. It would seem that a good state budget should include this in the heading: agriculture. Third thing. A year ago President Kaczyński placed a very strong emphasis on transport, on the development of connections. I do not know whether you have consulted the budget with President Kaczyński or not, but I do not think the President will be happy with this, because from 26 billion in this position last year the funding is falling to 9 billion. It's a 65 percent drop. And if it wasn't last year, it's not like that, for example. bus connections from Rzeszów to the capitals of neighbouring regions, to Białystok, to Olsztyn. As from the capital of Opole Voivodship there was no bus connection to Warsaw, there is no bus connection. President Kaczyński will certainly pay your attention to this, Minister. Why does the Self-Government Road Fund disappear from the state budget? This was supposed to be the flagship action of the United Right Government aimed at local governments. I see, it's gone, the election's over, it's gone. It's amazing why there's 200 million less on the police, 60 million on the State Fire Department. They're also institutions... Who was standing next to the Minister of Health last night? The chief of police, who assured us of a zero-tolerance policy. What's that zero tolerance the police are supposed to implement when you cut her money for? These allegations and many others lead us to conclude that this draft budget, Minister, does not correspond to the real challenges facing our country today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, Minister, I believe that a constitutionally important person like you in this government should not be laconically treated with information about the most important law at the most difficult time in Poland. I think it's a mistake for you to see how you presented this budget. Why didn't you take the matter of the health system with your heart? Why didn't you mention how you wanted to support the health department that is breathing with sleeves today? After all, there are situations in our country that the health department suspends any activity other than action to fight the korunavirus. There are city offices that post at the beginning for training and later for health care. These are the most important things today. Didn't you see what TV showed yesterday, how the health system works: that you take a stick and fall into a window window to get a prescription or point out that you have to change it at some point? Today, the Minister of Finance should say so. There are situations of people coming into my office, and they say they can't get into public health, they go to private, and there's a wall, and the money comes from them with tweezers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the health system today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u238	Thank you very much. Now Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u239	Hello again. We're going back to the masquerade ball, but I can see that the atmosphere is still numb. First of all, I apologize to the voters for having to speak in this mask, but that's what happens when a person comes in with bad company. It's me, Dobromir Sosnierz. It's better to adjust sometimes. This game must end badly. We can see slowly that this evil end can be seen behind the next corner. But the government doesn't care. We squandered the money in good times, spent it under traffic, lived from first to first, then when we were doing well, now that it's going bad, we have to be under traffic. You still can't make peace in this budget with the fact that it's not gonna happen anymore. This budget is one big denial of reality. This budget is about getting into a policy that has already led us to the brink of bankruptcy. And right into this bankruptcy, you're going to embrace hyperinflation and a bigger crisis. I pay attention to what I have pointed out several times here, that you cannot lift yourself up by the hair. Meanwhile, the government in this budget bill keeps heating up the same myth that as we make less money, as we just lost a piece of payout, we need to spend more to stimulate our home budget. Recently, there has been an initiative to solve the burning issue of parliamentary salaries. Well, if that's the case, I recommend you use the same method. If you believe that on a macro scale it works, that it is enough to raise more money from people, then give it to them, and everyone will be richer, let's do the same in the Seym. Instead of raising our wages, let's make a target fund, we'll all fall off, then some of our most outstanding representatives will be giving it away in the form of some programs, funds, stimulus, and we're definitely starting our budgets. We're gonna be in debt for the next term, and I'm sure it's gonna be okay. If you believe it works, use it on yourself first and then only on the living tissue of the organism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak. Sir, are you wearing a mask? I can't see. He's not wearing a mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u241	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Sir, did you wear a mask? Mr President, we have agreed that if we are attending the meeting, we are wearing masks. Would you kindly put on your mask and then get back to the podium? Ladies and gentlemen! Today we're discussing... I asked you, sir. This is about the health and safety of other Members, not you. If you want to infect yourself, you can infect yourself. Please leave the pedestal, put on your mask and return in your mask. And yesterday at the committee meeting, everyone was sitting without. But today has changed. I wasn't at the committee meeting. Mr. Marshal, please don't make this any more difficult... Then get off the stand and put on your mask. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today we're discussing... This budget is based on optimistic assumptions... I can't hear you. Mr. President, I asked you to... The question to be asked to the government in the context of this budget is: Why are these optimistic assumptions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u242	In this situation, we'll move on to the questions. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The first question is asked by Mr Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition Club. Mr. Marshal, please... Mr President, I have drawn your attention. Put your mask on or get off the stand. Okay, let me. If the marshal thinks that the debate with the microphone off will be more efficient, then it is a choice of your marshal. I can't hear you. I think you're hearing very well. No. Is Mr Dariusz Joński here? There's no envoy. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, the Member is asking a question. I'm afraid, Mr. Marshal, someone's standing right here. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, you will not ask a question without a mask, please leave the room. You have no right to limit the possibility of speaking to Members of the Sejm. You have no legal basis. I have a legal basis in the form of a unanimous determination of the Sejm Bureau. An oral that hasn't been handed over to us. Oral's enough. It's oral enough. Since you don't understand our oral requests, I'm giving you a written request to give us our findings and not threaten us. Put it down, I won't touch it. Please, the Member is asking a question. Let me finish. A break must be announced, Mr. Marshal. Clearly, the government has decided to complement the decline in tax revenues... Mr President, on the basis of the article. 22b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct is a gross violation of the agenda. Thank you very much. Tell me, Marshal, if my speech is registered. No, it's not. Thank you very much, sir. I would very much like to ask you not to make the speech difficult... Then put on your mask. Mr. Marshal doesn't have a mask either. I'm wearing a mask. It's not a mask, it's a visor. Well, I've got a pinhole. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club. You're welcome. It's about security. I would ask you very much, Mr. Marshal, not to make my speech difficult. You're out of time. Don't be afraid of opposition criticism. Don't whine. I'm not afraid of criticism, but you should be afraid of financial penalties. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please, Mr Maciej Necessary. I'm afraid I'm having a difficult time speaking. Turn on the mike, please. Oh, please, but you're running out of time. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So, as I said, let me criticize the state budget despite the difficulties of the marshal. Accepting such optimistic assumptions that the planned economic growth... Sit down. But he's not wearing a mask. What's this? And you took your mask off again. [[Joy in the Chamber]] He's not wearing a mask. Oh, there it is. You're welcome. Accepting assumptions... But let's get this over with, seriously. 75 people died today, and you're making fun of me. Either Mr. Marshal is a man and he's gonna clean up, or... You want me to call the Marshal's Watch? Oh, no, let's just let the gentleman fool around a little bit more. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry. You don't. This gentleman doesn't have a voice. I'm sorry. Please, this is Mr Artur Łącki from your club, the Civic Platform. Did your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska punish the Member? Mr... But he does. Were you laughing then? You're a trained opposition. This is a picture from today's performance. Shame on you. Respect for Members. If they're training you, then what? Mr President, on the basis of the article. 22b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that you have grossly violated the agenda. You're welcome, sir. Is it okay? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I don't want... Your ridicule, your acceptance of this censorship, I understand, is on the level. Mr President, stop it. You're just following orders. Mr President, I would like you to put an end to these arguments in the courtroom. You're welcome, sir. The year 2021, which we are discussing now, will be the year in which, we hope, Poland will emerge from the economic crisis. Just to get her out of here, you need a solid investment. As the history of economic crises shows, it must be public investment, because crises rarely come from private investments. Meanwhile, the investment budget planned by the Government of Law and Justice is less than 25 billion, very little. What's the most shocking thing? As much as 63% of this amount is an investment in the military. What does that mean? That there are no more important investments in Poland, that the apartment+ programme turned out to be such a huge success that we no longer have to invest in apartments that Poles live in fantastic, spacious apartments and have trouble getting into them? I don't think so. At this point we have a huge problem with overpopulation, we need to invest in rail, because railway connections in Poland are still unsatisfactory and incomparably worse than those in Europe, for example. Despite this, the Government of Law and Justice does not want to invest in public transport, does not want to invest in rail, does not want to invest in apartments, even after the absolute failure of the scheme. It spends 63% on military investments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is crazy. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński. Still no envoy, sir? Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, please. No, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by asking, at which point where the budget's position is the savings resulting from the weight loss of the government that was sworn in yesterday. I can't find it, and it's supposed to be a very important issue that's being discussed on government television all the time. I would like to ask you about other very important matters: How much money have you booked for next year to build 100 bypasses? I am particularly interested in ring-roads in the Łódź Voivodship: Brzeziny, Łowicz, Wieluń, Błaszko and Srock. I also wanted to ask how much money you will spend next year on the construction of the S12 road is mainly about the section constituting the Sulejow ring road. You've talked a lot about this. The decisions were made, in the election campaign you promised that this construction would begin any moment now. How much money did you book for next year? I would also like to know how much money you have reserved for the support of local governments, especially in terms of health and education systems. Do you know that more and more local governments, especially district governments, are taking loans to finance increases for teachers, and this is the decision that the government has made? I would like to get an answer first and foremost to these questions. How much money did you book for flu vaccines next year and for the only drug (the bell) accredited by the European Medicines Agency, Remdesivir? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent Member. There is no Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I was surprised to hear from the Minister of Finance and the chairman of the finance committee who were so complacent that this was the year of the pandemic, because the coronavirus will also be with us next year, implementing its unambitious plan to investigate for years up to 6% GDP for health, and next year it will be 5.3% GDP. First question to the Minister of Finance: Do you believe, and do you agree, that the health care system needs more money during the epidemic than at a time when there is no epidemic? As rhetorical as it would seem, the Minister's question would answer, I would like the Minister to point out, and I ask for an answer not only from the speaker but also in writing: If the Poles pay over PLN 103 billion to the NFZ next year, in order to achieve this 5.3%, how many billions of PLN must pay the budget? Please indicate where in the budget these missing appropriations up to 5,3% You're predicting GDP? And don't forget to tell the High House how much money you've guaranteed in the medical fund budget bill that President Duda wanted to blur the Lichocke gesture shown to all cancer patients, the gesture, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which the president himself showed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u248	Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u249	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am so glad that Minister Piotr Patkowski is with us because the question is addressed to him. What? The VAT gap, Minister. How's the VAT gap? It is a source of financial success, thanks to which it was supposedly possible to finance numerous social programs of the PiS government. It is good that they were financed, but it was argued by the way that this is happening, that many VAT mafias are smitten and that is why there is money for the social programmes in question. I hope, and so it follows from the draft of this budget, that the programmes will last, but the VAT gap, if the calculations of experts are correct, in 2021, i.e. this year, which concerns the budget discussed at this moment in the High House, will be PLN 40 billion. That's right - 40 billion PLN. Unless my information is out of date. You will admit that, with the amount of tax on goods and services, the revenues projected for the amount of 181 billion, this 40 billion is impressive. The question is, what are you gonna do about it? Will you involve Minister Kaminski? Would you like to introduce a new interpretation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the answers on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u250	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u251	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In the current crisis, the budget should meet real needs, what is happening in Poland. We all repeat that health and economic affairs should be the most important. What's it like, ladies and gentlemen? It's a small increase. You, ladies and gentlemen, have an amazing opportunity to deal with the huge, galloping debt of county hospitals. Do you have a real proposal? No, you don't, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, you give, you increase your resources for defense. Praise, Minister, when it comes to investment, yes. We need to give as much for these investments as possible, because it stimulates our economy. But health care, ladies and gentlemen, is at an insufficient level. We have this chance, we can do it. I encourage you to be braver, otherwise this health service will simply sail completely in 2021, and in the first place it will be county hospitals, which today, if there were no local governments, would be no more. This is a few billion zlotys paid in total by county authorities for the operation of these hospitals. Unfortunately, as far as contracting is concerned, nearly 90% in many of these units (the Bell) are only wages. This is a reflection, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. You're an MP in a mask, aren't you? Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Club of the Civic Coalition. Mr. Marshal... Sir, you don't have a mask. You're welcome to leave the podium. Mr. Marshal, you're breaking the law... Don't spit on me. ...to prevent me from fulfilling my mandate as a Member. Exactly. You're a criminal, Marshal. I'm so happy for you. Art. 231 Criminal Code - Abuse of Permissions. Sure. Unfortunately, there is a unanimous decision of the Sejm Bureau. And I hope that... Mr President, speak that way. ...the courts of the Republic will wipe that smile out of your face. We'll see. Unveil her notabene. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. It's the criminals who cover their faces and maybe there's something in it. Maybe there's something to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to ask questions... This is outrageous! ...in the budget debate. Whatever. It's a serious caliber... Mr President, on the basis of the article. 22b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct is a gross violation of the agenda. ...in other matters other than finding out... But don't spit in there. [[...how much money to spend, what to spend on and where to get it, right? Because power doesn't have any money that she wouldn't have taken from her own people before. What you're doing is already beyond the measure of courtesy and honesty, that's fiscal oppression. This is fiscal pressure. History shows that there have been riots against fiscal oppression, including in the Republic of Poland.]] Mr. Marshal, I think we're gonna have to disinfect the podium. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 35 hrs. 16 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda. Well, then, I'm going back to my voice, Mr. Marshal. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. Well, then, I'm going back to my voice, Mr. Marshal. Please don't spit in here, okay? That way. I ask you, sir, not to go into your criminal defiance because the court may consider this an additional circumstance incriminating... Mr President, I will have to exclude you from the proceedings. ... Because what you did rashly, you repeat after a moment of reflection, which you gave yourself time to. [[Applause]] Now, on second thought, you're already a criminal offender, and you're in criminal defiance. Don't do that, Marshal. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. I call on you to step off that path of crime you've already entered. As a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I cannot be passive in relation to such an obvious violation of the law in force in the Republic of Poland. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Then please turn on the microphone. The court will take this into account as a mitigating circumstance. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Yes. Oh! [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u253	Mr President, allow me to speak. Member, handkerchief. You can clean it up. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. High Izbo! I'll get back to the investment... Dear Member... Mr President, I am warning you. ...you take time for me in this debate. You're taking the time that's meant for me. Mr. Marshal, will you control... I'll isolate you, okay? I'm gonna push a little. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. Sir, please don't invade my private area, okay? I'm not making, I'm sorry, no invasion. Members, please... Don't go to the hacks or the backs, sir. I stood right here. I'm defending my friend at the club. But he's gonna scream. One of the priorities... Dear Marshal... May I continue? ...please call the Marshal's Guard, because criminal acts are already being done in this room in a series of ways. I'm declaring another three minutes' break. Thank you very much, Marshal. I understand the guards are on their way. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 40 hours 16 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. High Sejm, I'm calling the Senior Convention at the hour. 17 in the marshal's office. I'm declaring a time-out. 17.10. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 46 hrs. 17 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda. If I remember correctly, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Coalition Club, is asking questions. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna come back, with a maniac's stubbornness to invest, because in order to do these beautiful social programs, we have to get what we need. And if there's no investment, what are you going to do with these wonderful social programs? Do you remember the strategy for responsible development, which Prime Minister Morawiecki was so proud to present while driving around the country? One of the development traps he identified, one of the most important ones, was the low level of investment, the low rate of investment. He assumed it would be 25%. And let me remind you, because today you probably don't want to remember this, the pandemic has been going on for six months, that you were operating in a great economic period and the assumed indicator first fell to this level from 1996 to the end of 2019 to 18.8, which gave us 23rd place among the 28 countries of the European Union. The driving force was to be these huge investments: Central Communication Port, power plant in Ostrołęka, 100,000. apartments, a million electric cars. None of these investments have been realised. In addition, you have led private investment to collapse, because it is a bad law, as example of today's commando companies. Minister, I ask: What is to be the basis for economic development? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland in 2021? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since several debates related to budget issues, I have consistently asked about the issues of falling agricultural expenditure in the Polish budget. Because it is quite symptomatic that since 2017 this drop has been at the level of approx. Five, seven billion a year. I would therefore like to ask the question which, at the moment, the Minister, including the Government, envisages a change in this trend. Because this trend is worrying, for example because of the many challenges that are facing the broad-based section - agriculture. For example, the Veterinary Inspection. Extensive animal diseases, which are epidemic in nature, require a strong strengthening of this inspection. The second element is the issue of water and intervention in this area. Here we are dealing with long-term expectations in some regions. I will give an example of southern Wielkopolska - the Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery, which is prepared from the ground, but at the same time it also requires, so to speak, support, that this scheduled date for the start of the implementation - 2023 be realistic, that it actually begins, because this is one of the biggest investments in the area of water retention in Wielkopolska. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I remember perfectly how from this speaker Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about the fact that money is enough for all promises and there will be no debt to be incurred. The reality is completely different. Next year the public debt will amount to a record amount of PLN 1500 billion. It's a record. For an average Pole, these are abstract numbers, but in order to say what it means, it must be made clear that each of you: you, Mr, Mr, Mr, Mr, and all Poles will have a loan of 40,000. zł. You are debting Poland at a record rate. Over the last five years, you have increased public debt by more than PLN 500 billion. I would like to ask the question: Do you think this is the responsible conduct of state policy? Is this the case of the country with a view to the next generation? No. I have this feeling that all you're thinking about is what to do here and now to fulfill promises that there's no money for today. You need to borrow this money, and then you don't have to worry about it, because it's probably gonna fall on your successors, and those debts are gonna have to pay off. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The next generation. I think it's irresponsible and shortsighted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, At the first reading of the revision of this year's budget, answering my question about the support of Kraków and Małopolska in the organisation of the European Olympic Games in 2023, you said that you intend to increase the budget of the Ministry of Sport for 2021 by PLN 56 million. When I look at this projection for 2021, I don't see that in Part 25. There is a special reserve item 37, but there is 30 million, and there is this reserve.: dissemination of sport. I think this is mainly about supporting sport infrastructure and the preparation of logistics for this large European event. The second point is the budgeted appropriations for the financing of agricultural insurance. In 2019 it was PLN 600 million, this year - 500 and still there are no funds. Only PLN 400 million is planned for 2021. On the basis of what calculations do you think that these agricultural insurance funds should be reduced in the budget of the Minister of Agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! You planned revenue for the NBP budget for PLN 1.3 billion. Where'd you get that amount? Is that NBP's respect? Because so far these influences have been greater, depending, of course, on a year. As for the proceeds from the liquidation charge of OFE, what amount will it be - because I did not read it, maybe I was wrong - in 2021? As far as self-government is concerned, the state says that the government's revenues are increasing due to increased taxes and other receipts, and the local authorities say that by reducing various taxes they have a smaller share. What's it like? The same applies to teachers' salaries in 2021. How much will the government finance, and how much do local governments have to pay? Finally, Mr Grzyb asked about the green order. Do you have any simulations of how much money you spend on energy, coal, water, air? This is relevant information for the call for tender in the Union as regards the Fair Transformation Fund or other possibilities for obtaining funds from the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs Klaudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u263	Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask when the government, instead of indebting Poland, will finally think about saving, especially during the pandemic. Here's a receipt for PiS expenses, unnecessary PiS expenses. Awards for party prosecutors - PLN 1 million, protection of Jarosław Kaczyński - 1800 thousand, commission of Macierewicza - 2.7 million PLN, Mr.Rydzyk - 64 million PLN per year, May unelected elections - 70 million PLN, faulty medical equipment - 80 million PLN, Polish National Foundation - 100 million PLN, Justice Fund - 117 million PLN, insurance of priests - 300 million PLN, IPN - 423 million PLN, hole in Wiślana - 880 million PLN, cost of the failed Ostrołęka plant - 1 billion PLN, religion in schools - 1,5 PLN billion, TVP - 2 billion, unnecessary central airport, construction has not yet started - 2 billion PLN, priests, tax exemptions - 3 billion PLN, failed purchase of F-35 from the USA - 17 billion PLN. In less than a minute I found you rounded up 29 billion zlotys of savings, and this list of unnecessary expenses is long, because these debts, the number of debts, we will pay back for years, just as our parents paid out Gierek's loans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u264	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During today's debate on the revision of this year's budget, we have pointed out that we think that the need for education in times of crisis has been temporarily overlooked. Exactly the same allegations could be repeated against next year's budget, although at least we on the left hope that the crisis will leave us in 2021. However, you seem to be doing a lot to keep this crisis going in education, at least. In the draft budget for 2021, teachers' wages are retained at the same level, far insufficient wages to stop the outflow, the deepening outflow of teachers from the profession. In September, as the trade unions estimate, as the education curatoria says, as many as 10,000 of the schools left the school. teachers. My question to you is this: How do you want to stop this staff disaster in education if you do not expect an increase in salaries for teachers that are already beginning to run out this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u266	Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Two specific questions. First: What financial resources did the government secure for the implementation of the national oncology strategy in 2021? And two: What's next about funding Polish education? Why does the government, knowing that the amount of the education subsidy is insufficient and causes financial collapse in the Polish education system, not secure the necessary resources for this purpose in 2021? It is estimated that the deficiency in education is about 20% appropriations allocated in 2020, while the increase in the draft budget for 2021 is only 4%. Self-governments have absolutely no money to finance the missing resources for education, which is the task of the state. Please, Minister, answer the question about the financial situation in Polish education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u268	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2020 the revenue of the state budget is expected to be lower than the revenue planned in the budget law by more than PLN 36 billion, i.e. 8.4% , including tax revenues of the budget will be lower by more than PLN 40 billion, i.e. by 10,3% in relation to the amounts originally planned for the current year. After the expected drop in 2020 tax revenues are expected to increase by 5.3% in 2021. State budget projections are primarily determined by estimates of the following macroeconomic factors: real GDP growth - by 4%, nominal - by 5.4% , average annual price increase of consumer goods and services - 1.8% , the nominal increase in the average annual salary fund in the national economy - 2.6% and an increase in nominal private consumption by 6,3%. Hence my question. The government projections for 2020 predict tax revenues lower by 10.3% than those originally planned, while for 2021 you predict that tax revenues will increase by 5.3%. Is the United Right going to give us new taxes, or is this another creative accounting procedure? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u270	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The budget for next year also includes funds for the new Minister for Local Government Affairs. For now, we do not know what Minister Michał Cieślak will be doing. He himself, in a talk on the Radio TOK FM admitted that he does not yet know the tasks that the Prime Minister has set before him, but assures that he would like to prepare some outline of local government reform. However, for a long time there has been information that the Law and Justice in the recent parliamentary elections will be taken over by local governments in order to take over and reduce their competences. The first year of this parliamentary term is about to pass, which is why I have a question: What will the new Minister for Local Government do and what tasks will he have to carry out? Was he called to support and help local governments, or God's forefathers, on the contrary, and the bountiors of municipalities and districts should be afraid? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u272	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government assumes a retail tax income of PLN 1.5 billion. Has it been correlated with the potential consequences of the pandemic and the collapse of the economy, resulting in a decrease in demand in the retail market? That's my first question. Another question. I would like to know how much money the government intends to allocate to compensate local governments for their lost influence. I am particularly interested in the local governments of Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodship. How much money will be spent to secure schools and hospitals from COVID-19? I would like to know what it will look like in the case of counties and cities: Elbląg, Iława, Lidzbark Warmiński, Działdowo, Nowy Miasto Lubawskie, Bartoszyce and Braniewo. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Club of the Civic Coalition. Your envoy isn't here. I kindly inform the High House that I will not take into account excuses unless someone is attending a committee meeting. We are very late, so those who do not vote on the scheduled agenda will unfortunately have to resign. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Because you're about to be disfellowshipped.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government proposed for 2021 a deficit of PLN 82 billion for state revenue of PLN 404 billion. This means that our country will have to borrow 1 PLN for each of the citizens' 4 zlotys. Well, that's my question. Of course, there are investments within this budget that come directly from the theory of a country before 1989, which is whether it is necessary, whether it is cost-effective or not, but it is important that they are as big as possible. I'm talking about the CPK. I have three specific questions. How much in the record budget of the Ministry of National Defence will be allocated to Polish arms plants, which are currently on the verge of collapse? How many of these funds will be allocated to the Polish defence industry, and how much will the US defence industry strengthen? Question two. Thanking the Prime Minister for taking the S10 route between Bydgoszcz and Torun, I said that I would keep asking what the funds were for this investment. I therefore ask how many of these measures will be in 2021. And the third question: How much money will be spent in individual ministries for the employment of make-up workers? On behalf of my constituents, I would like to assure Prime Minister Sasin that the amount of powder will not be the opinion of the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just the amount of money generated by the companies you manage. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u276	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the end of December 2018, the value of all shares and shares belonging to the State Treasury exceeded PLN 190 billion. Only 386 million dividends are planned in the budget for 2021. This, ladies and gentlemen, is 0.2%. That's how efficient this government works. The owners would throw away such a board after the first such information, and the minister, Prime Minister Sasin, buys powder to powder reality. Unfortunately, the PiS appreciates inability. Disagree in housing programs, in the playback of rail, bus connections, but ministers remain unchanged. The 2021 budget is also a significant reduction in resources for infrastructure investments. Basic question: Where are you headed? You introduce new taxes, you own state Treasury companies. When are you going to start working, because so far, failure is chasing disaster, and failure is written down in every subsequent budget, including the latest one, for 2021. Specific questions: How much will you use for the operation of an ambulance? So far, you've eliminated them in the voivodships. What will be the resources in the different voivodships in 2021? What funds have been reserved for the construction of the Beskydy Integration Road? You promised. She's not here yet. You're still lying. Which funds have been reserved [[♪ The bell ♪]] To maintain a psychiatry unit at a hospital in Bielsko-Biała? What measures are planned in the southern part of the Silesian Voivodeship to fight smog? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Excuse me. I'd like a written reply. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question. Why is the education subsidy for next year as low as this year's? A total of PLN 52 billion has been planned this year. This subsidy covers an average of 55% expenditure. It should be 40 billion more this year. Pathology was accepted as normal. The pandemic has resulted in higher costs on the part of schools, which this financial year the central budget has not covered. Many local governments are short on wages, many local governments are in debt. I wanted to ask you about the local governments of Wielkopolska Voivodeship, Poznań, Poznań County. When will these next year's losses be evened out in the light of this budget? Second question. Why is 10 billion less planned for investments than in the current year? 63% These investment expenditures are military expenditures, and only every 13 zlotys are earmarked for rail and roads. On 17 September in this House, we adopted another COVID law, which assumed that the pandemic lever would be the cost of transport, communications and rail from the economic collapse. Meanwhile, transport and communications are scheduled in next year's budget of 66% less. For the housing economy - 44% less. Even computer science was planned for 4.5% in the days of remote work. less. The question is about transport and communication, what for Wielkopolska. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will the airport get the funds? What roads will be financed in Wielkopolska? What will the railway expenditure be next year?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The crisis exposed ruined public finances. Public debt is 1.5 trillion, 600 billion have come from your governments. It proves best that there was never any money for Kaczyński's five. The crisis also exposed the devastated social security system. For pensions we will pay PLN 126 billion from the state budget. The crisis also exposed the myth of Prime Minister Morawiecki about sealing the VAT-V gap, which unexpectedly grows after a few months of crisis after 5 percentage points. I already asked that in the public finance committee. Mr President made a joke that the VAT gap was based on the budget. I understand that it can be read from the budget, but I asked why we suddenly grew so much. VAT falls faster than GDP, and it looks like after the VAT mob election you gave back the money that Prime Minister Morawiecki had taken from them before the election. Now my key question, Minister. In the previous term, the entire committee under Mr Horala was working on how the PO was stealing money. Who and how much did you let steal that gap? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has it grown again? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u283	High Izbo! From enormous military expenditures, over PLN 50 billion, we will be neither healthier nor wiser nor happier. Health protection in the future budget accounts for only 5.39% GDP, and this is the time when we have a medical emergency, people are not being investigated, and operations are being postponed. Health care is on the shoulder. You spend 10 billion less on investment than in 2020 and 63% on top of that is investment in the military. But buying more American planes isn't gonna help you with your American LGBT assessment. Only every 13th. zloty is used to invest in roads and railways. From Szczecin and Koszalin to Warsaw for years you drive 7, 8 hours through Rzepin and Kostrzyn. Vistula is 465 million. How many vaccines, of course, from a reliable source, can you buy for it? So when are you going to end your war obsessions and start spending on our health, education, economy and culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u284	Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We're talking about the state budget for 2021. And there is no more important issue, High Izbo, for Poles and Poles, especially during pandemics than health. Health should be a priority for the state. And that's 5.3%. GDP is absolutely insufficient expenditure on health. Ladies and gentlemen! We're an ageing society. It is very often the case that older people, people with dementia, people with Alzheimer's disease, and there are half a million of them in Poland, need the care of another person. These are adult carers of people with disabilities. I'd like to ask you a specific question, Minister. Where is the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment in this budget for 2021? Where are measures to compensate adult carers for funding? This is the first case. The second point is compensation for local government units. In fact, through the laws you adopted, you have reduced the income of local government units. Many local governments lack the resources for investment, for their own tasks. Does the budget for 2021 provide for compensation for local authorities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u286	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state budget is also the budget of local communities. It is the budget of the inhabitants of Tuchola, Znina, Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw. It's a budget of people who often put their problems in hope. Hopefully, here in Parliament, we will adopt laws that are good and serve this community. Unfortunately, in the budget, two extremely important issues for the Left are still treated as stepmothers: health and education. Today in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship one of the biggest problems is funding hospitals. Hospitals, which face not only the pandemic of Coronavirus, still have a rude shortage of equipment, but also lack the possibility of hiring new staff. This is one of the key elements that should be implemented. I therefore ask the Minister: How much money do you plan to allocate to county hospitals, which will be dedicated to equipment and salary increases? The second thing is about education seen in the eyes of parents and children. What are they missing most? Laptops, interactive boards, but also funds to finance various initiatives. More money for education and health is a chance that local Poland will be proud of the budget that we will adopt in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u289	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My question will concern the implementation of the Silesian Programme. You probably remember the announcements from 2019 - 116 projects worth a total of PLN 62 billion. And my question is, will there finally be such a moment, in 2021, that you will start to account for these announcements, not to tell unpretentious stories about the measures involved, not defining this concept, but precisely account? The last publicly available clearing document for this programme is the report for the second quarter of 2019. When the opposition compared your announcements with what was really happening, you just stopped publishing more data. In July of this year, the Minister responsible for regional policy informed me that the report for the whole of 2019 is being prepared and will be made available to Members, probably, as the ancients said, ad calendas Graecas, meaning in Polish: a saint never. I'll just add that at the expense of over 120 grand. zł you have created a website of the Silesian programme. The three newest entries are March, April and June 2020. The last one concerns the meeting of the Executive Board of this programme. What do you think, Minister, can a Member of the Polish Sejm see the minutes of this meeting? He can't. He can wait, ask, appeal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u290	Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition Club. How long is it, Marshal? One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask whether, by budgeting health expenditure, you have taken into account the increased risk arising from the second wave of pandemics and thus from the increase in the cost of treatment, but also from the economic environment, i.e. the decrease in income from health insurance contributions, the increased cost of minimum salaries in health care, but also the burden of maintaining single name infectious hospitals. I would like to ask you about the fact that the number of green oncology diagnosis cards you spend in the budget for oncology treatment, for chemotherapy, for the financing of a national oncology strategy has really fallen. How much money do you spend on psychiatry, including child psychiatry, in the state budget compared to 2020? How much money will there be for drug programs compared to 2020? And I would like to ask whether, in this budget, the State will finally implement the electoral promise from many years ago concerning the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which speaks about the compensation of benefits for carers of persons with disabilities, regardless of the age at which this disability arose. Please answer these questions in detail. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u292	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, your statement should be preceded by very precise information and calculations of the costs that future generations will have to bear in order to pay back this irresponsible financial policy that you are now in debt to the state. Because you are well aware that you are firming and giving face to current business policy (Gwar in the Chamber, bell) at the expense of future generations. And this is a crime against the state, against society, but above all against the next generations, our children and grandchildren. I have the following questions. First of all, I want you to make it clear here what taxes you're planning to raise next year. At this session of the Sejm, today, we talked about two more taxes. In the previous term, it was a few dozen new taxes that were introduced by the rule of law and justice. Secondly, I would like to know whether the government is working on what Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz revealed in an interview about the introduction of vouchers in the 500+ programme. Thirdly, I would like to know whether there will also be a policy next year towards the Justice Fund, which should help victims of crime, and in fact serves to implement the financing policy of Tadeusz Rydzyk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u294	Mrs Marta Golbik, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u295	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Being in the second wave of pandemics, in preparing a budget, a budget largely focused on health issues, I wanted to ask you about a particularly important thing, about the psychiatry of children and young people, about what resources were allocated to this particular issue. I ask because all the data that comes down to us is that it is during the pandemic that this problem is getting worse, that all the specialists and reports are talking about it. You will be familiar with the NIK report in detail, which is crushing for the psychiatry system of children and young people, in which you can learn that there is no daily psychiatric care hospital in Podlasie. That's a cost of 4 million. I would very much like to know whether you have included such a cost in this budget, whether there has been a real valuation of services for services, because unfortunately we are still dealing with a drain of professionals into the private sector. That's what makes it $400,000. Children - because this is how the need for specialist services is estimated today - we have only 416 psychiatrists. Let me stress once again, Minister: really, in a pandemic period, this is an extremely important subject that requires our special sensitivity. Please also reply in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to ask what funds have been earmarked for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u296	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u297	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In December 2017, the Prime Minister of Morawiecki announced and presented the programme for Silesia. He presented this programme as a strategic programme whose implementation is to lead to a change in the economic profile of Silesia. Today, on September 25th, you signed an agreement with the trade unions to liquidate the mines in Silesia. You want to take down the steelworks. Minister! I ask you what financial resources you have saved in the budget 2021 for the implementation of the Silesian Programme. What financial support will six cities in the Silesian Voivodeship receive, which - as you have indicated in this programme - lose social and economic function, among them are among others. Hawks-Driver and Rydult? January 9th this year Here in the High House, we discussed a citizens' bill granting the pension allowance to long-term members of voluntary firefighters. All the parliamentary clubs were in favour. Enough, President Duda has clearly promised support for this project during the campaign. I ask you, Minister, what resources are included in the budget for 2021. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u298	Mr Artur Łącki, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, When the government introduced its anti-crisis shields, holes in the anti-crisis shields, I wondered when the tax sword would come, because if there was a shield, there was a sword. It hasn't been two months, and it is. Today will be recorded in the history of micro- and small Polish enterprises as a black Wednesday. First, CIT Estonian, or actually Polish variations on CIT Estonian. Secondly, the end of limited companies, read: the fall of tens of thousands of Polish micro- and small companies. Third, taking out the abolition relief. I turn to sailors who all benefit from the abolition allowance because more than 180 days a year work outside the country: you will no longer have it, you will pay taxes twice. And then there's the budget bill -- more like dismantle financial rules, creative accounting, and propaganda. My question is: How much have you written down in this budget bill, Minister, for the purchase of possible vaccines on COVID-19 that will appear in 2021? And you know it's gonna be the only cure for the Coronavirus pandemic. Is there money saved for this, and if so, how much? So that the vaccine doesn't show up, you can buy it, and as usual, we won't have the money for it and we'll have to look for it right away. The second question concerns Zachodniopomorskie and Pomeranian voivodships. Are they secure? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the act money to finance the entire road S6 from Szczecin to Gdansk? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u300	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask for Eastern Poland once again. I would like to encourage the government, like the European Commission, to create a special programme for Eastern Poland, because these delays, when it comes to the development of this region, are quite large and without these funds it will be very difficult to cope with the economic crisis. But it is also about developing the country in a balanced way. This is the first element. The second element. I am asking for national roads S12 and S17 from the village of Sandy to the state border, including buffer parking at the border crossing point in Dorohusk. If today someone wants to arrive from Chełma to Dorohuska, he must break the rules at least a dozen times, because this cork waiting for the passage of trucks has a length of up to 20 km and sometimes more. I also give consideration, if we are talking about the development of Eastern Poland, to the construction of a new border crossing point Zbereze - Adamczuki. We've been talking about this for a long time, but unfortunately it only ends with talking. Another element is extremely important. We're talking about the bypasses of individual cities. Chelm is one of the few big cities that still doesn't have a ring road. I firmly believe that financial resources for this purpose will not be lacking, but I also call for more funding for self-government routes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u302	Thank you. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Budget, draft State budget It's not just a list of numbers, it's not just a list of expenses and revenues for several hundred billion zlotys. The state budget is above all a document that should show what key problems Poles and Poles want to solve next year. And this is what I wanted to ask you: What are the problems that you want to deal with next year? Will you improve the functioning of obstetrics, about which NIKI writes in his report: do not provide patients and newborns with the required quality of medical care? Will you take care of the problems of child psychiatry when there are no psychologists, psychiatrists, psycho-pedagogical counsellors, psychiatric departments in hospitals in many voivodships? Will this budget in schools bring better equipped classes? Or maybe there'll be daycare? But not the private ones. You like to talk about the fact that there are crèches in Poland. The question is whether there will be crèches of state, public, such as Poles and Poles will be able to afford. So I want to know what concrete, real problems the Polish state wants to solve next year through this budget. And there's one more thing I wanted to ask you about, the E40 Waterway. Will this water road be implemented in Lublin next year? What is the amount allocated to the construction of this investment, which will degrade the Lublin region, and whose documentation (the bell) are you hiding? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u304	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u305	I would like to carry out a test such as one out of ten, and ask the marshal and the minister, do they know how much health seems to be spent on the tax paid by each taxpayer 100 PLN? Does the Minister know? No. Does the marshal know? No. If you don't know, I'd like to answer. Of our 100 PLN paid tax - apart from the health contribution, because of this country you are talking about - for health we ourselves, Poles pay only 2.60 PLN ourselves, that is what we pay for health. This is health support from the state budget. How much for debt support? Minister, do you remember? 6.60. So for health, 2.60, for debt service, 6.60. So? And today is a pandemic. And today, hospitals are closed. The state should know how many hospitals are closed and how many debts they have. After all, September passed and local governments had to pay for the debts of their hospitals, which are founding bodies. However, there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court of November 2019 which states that the State Treasury is responsible for the financing of health care services. Time limit [[♪ The bell ♪]] This solution is due in June 2021. Thank you very much, Member. There's no money for that. For our health there is no money in this budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u306	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The deficit this year will amount to almost PLN 110 billion, and next year - over PLN 82 billion. The pace of Polish debt growth is shocking. Overall, as much as half of our country's debt is the work of the PiS government. For the last five years, you have not prepared Poland for a crisis, and you have squandered the Poles' money for populism, for propaganda, for the wages of their people employed in companies of the State Treasury. Not to mention 70 million PLN, which Minister Sasin spent on elections that did not take place. Despite the deficit now, there's no money left for anything. There will be no increases in the budget, which actually means a decrease in earnings, because there is inflation and an increase in the cost of living. There is a lack of resources to counter the COVID, there is a shortage to save the economy, to save health, to prevent other disasters such as flooding. And it's no wonder that money is missing, since in times of economics you didn't comply with the stability of the spending rule and you spent money earned by Poles. Now that there's a crisis, you're saying you're going to follow that rule, so you're spending money again. I said, who's gonna pay for all this? What steps - apart from accounting optimisation and the imposition of additional taxes, what are you trying to do today, on companies - are you going to do to save the budget and the failing economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u308	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u309	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have two laws here that we are currently working on in the Sejm. This bill, the housing bill, we just took it off the agenda today, but we're probably gonna pass it this year because it's a law that doesn't raise any doubts, it contains good solutions and in the Infrastructure Commission it actually got unanimous support. And this law does not see completely with the second law that I hold here, which we are debating here today, because in this law, the housing law, it is written that by 2020 for the housing development fund will be provided 1,5 billion, and to the Fund Payment per year this law provides for the addition of PLN 1 billion, i.e. we have 2.5 billion for housing per year, and this is not here. I checked. Really. The largest, which is, the largest amount, which is in the budget law, is a reserve of 300 million. And no one can explain it to me. So I wanted to ask - because housing is a very neglected area, which really requires big money, and at the same time it is small local investments, which can leave money on the spot, stimulate local construction companies - why there is no money for housing in this budget, while there are for such monuments of power, for such gigantic investments, for example. excavation of the Vistula mine or another work on the Central Communication Port. And I ask you to give me this reply in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u310	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki announced on July 1 the reconstruction of the Corawieckius, announced the victory, we were no longer to fear the Corawieckis, he invited the crowds to the elections. 3 months after that today we have 3003 new cases of coronavirus and 75 people who died. Why am I talking about this? Because today it is Minister Kościński who says this: this time next year we will be over the recession. We have already buried all the effects, and most of the European Union's countries are probably going to be ahead of them by now. I'd like to ask the minister whose fairy you were with. Or the same one that Prime Minister Morawiecki was with? Because if you do, your seduction sessions just don't work. What you're doing is nonchalantly spending public money, for example, on the Ministry of Health. This nonchalance against the pandemic and the recession has a common denominator. This fight is just a PR fight. Now you're looking at the one who says and calms down that everything's gonna be okay, just don't tell me what data and indicators you're based on. So I'm appealing to you not to practice fiction, not to do PR just and exclusively, but to tell you what the reality is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u312	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy, now has the floor. You're welcome, Minister. I will ask you, Minister, for most of the written answers, because we are very late, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth about the state of finance is that at the end of September we had more than 120 billion in the accounts of the state budget. We have over 98% of our loan needs already completed. Recession in Poland - we as the Ministry of Finance predict whether this will be 4.6, according to what the European Commission is forecasting the same way. The market predicts much less, between 3 and 3.5% This year. Also data from the European Commission, from the World Bank: Poland will have the lowest recession from all countries of the European Union. We're the only country that's going to be below 5%, and the average is about 9%. Poland will also emerge from this recession probably the fastest from all countries. These are data from the European Commission, the World Bank. I would like to remind you that on 11 September the international Moodys agency maintained its rating for Poland with a stable perspective, which means that public finances are well managed in Poland. On 25 September, the international agency Fitch also maintained Poland's rating and its prospects at a stable level... ...he also had a high pointer. On 2 October, last week, Standard & Poor.s, the last of these big three, also maintained Poland's perspective at a stable level. Today I recommend that you look at the report of the International Monetary Fund, where it recommends to all mature economies to be less concerned about public debt - so far the cost is historically lowest - and more investment or as much investment in infrastructure. And again, I confirm that there is no work at the Ministry of Finance to increase any taxes. Of course, we're working all the time to seal it. Thank you very much. Like your marshal said, we'll answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] But the Minister didn't answer any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u314	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2021, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 6 November 2020 and the Public Finance Committee shall adopt the report by 2 December 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2021 (print No 641). I ask the Secretary of State at Sebastian Skuza's Ministry of Finance to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Together with the draft budget law, the Council of Ministers adopted and addressed to the Sejm a draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2021. The main solutions contained in this project concern the freezing of remuneration in the State budget for 2021. State budget units, including ministries and offices, are, as a general rule, expected to maintain salaries at the level of the current year. Therefore, the draft around budget law for 2021 contains provisions freezing remunerations in public finance entities and entities and bodies referred to in Article. 139 Public Finance Act, i.e. Chancellery of the President, Sejm Chancellery, Senate Chancellery, Constitutional Court, Supreme Chamber of Control, State Labour Inspection and Institute of National Remembrance. In addition, in view of the principle of social justice, it is proposed to maintain at 2020 among others. the remuneration of judges, prosecutors, including retired persons, and the maximum remuneration of persons listed in the Act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities and persons employed in entities subject to the provisions of the Act on the formation of remuneration rules for persons managing certain companies. The project also includes regulations that change the rules on discretionary prizes. In 2021, it is proposed to replace the planned prize fund resulting from the various sectoral rules to maintain the possibility to award prizes for specific achievements or to keep exclusively from remuneration which has not been spent for objective reasons, such as. staying on layoffs, parental leave or holidays. These actions will contribute to reducing the increase in state budget expenditure. It is also envisaged to maintain the basis for the calculation of social funds at a level similar to that of the current year, the level of the calculation base for 2018, and this would apply to teachers, pensioners and soldiers and officers of uniformed services and their families, as well as to civil servants, in respect of the calculation of which an occupational social benefit fund is created. Another element of the proposed around budget law is the waiver of the loan granted to the Solidarity Fund from the Demographic Reserve Fund in 2019. I just wanted to point out that the Minister responsible for public finances in the same year, i.e. in 2019, made a contribution from the state budget to the Demographic Reserve Fund, so that these funds were supplemented. The draft law also takes into account provisions giving the President of the Council of Ministers the power to create a new special-purpose reserve from budgetary blockades to address natural disasters, including, for example, the droughts we've been dealing with this year. In addition, in 2021, as before 2020, the transfer of treasury securities with a nominal value of about 0.5 billion to higher education and science is planned. These activities will allow for the continuation of the "Initiation of Excellence" programme - research university. The project also includes a provision allowing the redemption of the loan granted to the National Water Farm of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the provisions presented, I ask the High House to adopt the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u316	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Henryk Kowalczyk on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law, print No. 641. Of course, the rules written in this bill, i.e. the freezing of wages or the freezing of social funds relating to 2018 are a natural consequence of the situation in which we are in. The freezing of wages in the budgetary sphere has been practiced for many years. The social fund also sometimes referred to 5 and 6 years back. Thus, in this exceptional year the social fund refers to two years back. This is a completely natural phenomenon and in this situation is worthy of support. It is worth noting in this Act that changes are made to make the use of resources more flexible for both teacher improvement and for a prize fund or methodical advice, so that tasks can be carried out freely, and that local authorities have the opportunity to treat these expenditure flexibly. A very important offer is among others. a proposal to increase the expenditure limits of local self-government units in pre-school education. This will be possible, among others. the distribution of PLN 1.5 billion dedicated precisely to local governments for pre-school education purposes. Changes related to the Labour Fund to support district governments in the achievement of the objectives related, among others, are also noteworthy. with the elimination of effects of COVID-19. The simplification of the payment procedure for the right to free coal can be mentioned. He will pay him directly to the ZUS, instead of brokering it as an ordering agent. Entries that freeze wages from the social fund, given the situation we have at the moment, are necessary. Law and Justice will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u319	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill presented is one big freeze, and the applicants do not hide it. The Act provides for the freezing of remuneration in public, local and municipal sectors. The changes proposed by the government will have an impact, among others. for the remuneration of judges of the Supreme Court, judges of the general courts, judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, administrative courts, the salary of judges and prosecutors retired. Freezing will also be subject to a diet of members of the National Judicial Council and jurors participating in the recognition. It is also worth mentioning the figures, because the consequences of freezing the write-down to the social benefit fund will be borne by about 13 354 teachers from government schools and 527 196 teachers from schools and institutions run by local government units. Over 3 million public-sector workers and over 6.5 million private-sector workers will suffer the consequences of freezing the write-down base for an occupational social benefit fund at the level of 2018. There will also be consequences for uniformed services, retired uniforms and members of their families. That's over 411 grand. persons. Projectors explain the widespread freeze rate of the situation caused by COVID. Budget constraints could be expected to cover all unnecessary state expenditure. Meanwhile, in the same bill we find a provision on the budget appropriations for the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers for renovations in real estate, e.g. construction of a communication hub in the Perkoz building in the Łańsk resort or modernization of the interiors of the reception lobby in the main building of Puszcza in the Łańsk resort. Ladies and gentlemen! Money, 57 billion, goes to all kinds of ends. The highest amount is almost 27 billion for the Solidarity Fund, 13th and 14th pensions, because you finally committed yourself to it. 3 billion were allocated to the army, to service the debt of 2.2 billion. The salaries in the President's Office are increasing, but education workers, judges, rectors and pensioners of uniformed money were not enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u320	Thank you. In the second part of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that the Minister of Finance has left us because I wanted to ask him if it is so good that everyone praises us as he thinks it is so bad that all the salaries in the budget have to be frozen, as my colleague has just said. Because if it's so good, why is it so bad? Something's not right. The truth is, in fact, public debt is growing avalanchely, faster than ever before. Just as our parents paid Gierka's debts, so we will pay Kaczyński and Morawiecki's debts, and the entire PiS. During the budget debate, I talked about the fact that you have also ruined the social security system in general, and by the way - there is still time for a discussion that you have kept to a minimum - a few words about it. So from this year's budget we will spend additionally on pensions, apart from what ZUS, KRUS and other dedicated entities support, 126 billion PLN. More than 60 - a grant for ZUS, almost 20 - for KRUS, 24 are pensions and pensions paid from the budget and nearly 23 - for 13th and 14th pensions. I would like to ask you why, Minister, you are lying that there is money, since it will actually come from debt, because although this year we are adding PLN 26 billion to the Solidarity Fund, of which you are 13 and fourteen, there will still be a very high deficit: about PLN 20 billion. Because there's no money for it, and like I said before, they come from debt, which is at the expense of future generations. It would be very solid to think about pensioners and pensioners not only today, but also in a few years when you stop ruling, because then the Social Security Office must also be solvent. And I would like to ask the Minister on this occasion what is the rate for the current thirty- and twenty-year-olds to replace the paid money to the Social Security Office from wages (the bell) to the amount of retirement in the future, because they are afraid to look at these numbers. Thank you very much. I'm filing a motion to reject the budget bill. We do not support the budget, we do not support your fiscal policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, on behalf of the parliamentary club Lewis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, it is a good thing that the temperature here is somehow human, because when I hear about this freezing, it gives me the creeps, because I see that now the word "freezing" will be very characteristic for the Polish government and for the Minister of Finance. The question is whether, in the situation we are currently dealing with, this is the best policy we should adopt. The question is whether, at the moment when there is a problem with the economic recession, we should not drive the economy through the construction of infrastructure, construction of roads, construction of railways, or whether we should also let go of this freezing when it comes to wages in the budgetary sphere, because it drives consumption, drives the economy, it is taxes, it is copies of the Social Security Office, it is the whole economic mechanism that should function at such a time, and there are many examples of countries that were in such a big recession when these public investments actually saved and helped to get out of this recession. Of course, this draft law is directly linked to the draft budget you have presented, this draft budget for 2021, and therefore it explicitly acknowledges all of the incorrect entries in this budget, in our view. We were talking about investments here, so let's see. : in this law there is a programme of modernization of the Prison Service in the years 2017-2020, a programme of modernization of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department, State Protection Service for the years 2017-2020 and there is no longer any continuation of these programs, and these are hundreds of millions of PLN for investments in districts, just in municipalities. So you're not doing it. Another thing, of course, is the issues that the previous speakers have already said a lot about virtual and creative budgeting and throwing out to external funds, external units of all these costs. After all, with this act you cancel the loan for Polish Waters, which is, in short, another 780 million appears as a redemption of this loan. With regard to redemption and the mechanism of redemption at the moment from the Demographic Reserve Fund - this is what I was talking about in the first part and I don't want to repeat it anymore - this is exactly the same mechanism that is about to occur, i.e. the assumed deficit in the Solidarity Fund. At the end of 2021, we're probably gonna lose those loans again. It is completely incomprehensible to freeze the write-down to an occupational welfare fund. This is completely incomprehensible to us. It is completely incomprehensible to write in this bill, and we will repeat it, and we will make a mantra of it: end this expenditure in times of crisis on the military. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 67 you're saying it's not gonna be less than 2.2%. GDP on defence expenditure. What is this entry no less than? I understand that today there are other needs, we see what's going on, we see how much trouble there is. Will something happen if today we do not spend PLN 50 or PLN 60 billion on the equipment of the Polish army? There are other needs. Suddenly, we view it as a great sanctity. Other countries approach this completely differently, while we view it as a great sanctity. You're shutting down all your funds. Not only are you freezing wages in the budgetary sphere, you are eliminating all these prize funds, which, in short, are also a mechanism for creating staff policy as regards employers. There's no way we can manage the state like this if we're gonna limit everything. That is why I call once again for the budget to be examined first and foremost, because this will result in the final shape of this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At this moment, the Left is against his acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u324	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland would like to present our position on the draft around budget law. As far as the most important solutions to this law are concerned, it may be borne in mind that this project had a general idea of rationalising the budget, because there are limitations on the expenditure of the public finance sector in respect of the said social fund, wages and prizes. I'm just wondering, ministers, are those professionals in this category that you freeze their wages, like doctors, like nurses, like medical rescuers, like the entire staff of people working in diagnostics, good people today to freeze their salaries? These are today, in these exceptional realities, these professions, those workers who really deserve to have their wages adjusted, first, to the effort they make on a daily basis, secondly, to the scale of the threat and to the prospects that are not, we all agree, best, not so much for weeks, but even months or years. This is our first reservation and I would like to make it very clear on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club. For this category of competition, don't really go that way. This is not a political point, maybe I repeat myself one time today, but good advice, because this is one of the essential elements of the health system, which is based primarily on people. Beds are important, ambulances are important, but if people are not properly rewarded for the effort, it will only speed up the erosion of this system. The second case also appears to be rational, i.e. raising the expenditure limit for the implementation of the Large Family Charter Act, the funding of local government units in the field of pre-school education, the purchase of vaccines, appears as regards the preventive vaccination programme. Minister! With all due respect, it is about the redemption of the loan granted to the National Water Farm of Poland for the implementation of their investment projects to prevent the effects of drought and floods. I a little and my constituency, and the region from which I come, which is Wielkopolska, I traveled, a little with local governments, with farmers recently, when it was still possible, and already in the best Polish Waters functioned. I must say that I have not found a single example of the fact that Polish Waters, I am no longer saying that they have realized, but have even made the slightest effort to counteract the effects of drought and floods. I do not know what you mean by this support for Polish Waters, but it is, in my opinion, to say as gently as possible, to cover up the reality in terms of the functioning of this institution, because nothing has been done there to prevent the effects of drought and floods. Anyway, I don't know, maybe in this institution it would be advisable for you to have some good control of the regularity of spending resources, the purpose of spending these resources and the effects of work, because this is not an institution that works 2 months, 6 months, only much longer. I don't see these effects, but there are (the bell) once again pumped huge resources. Marshal, I'm finishing, just one last sentence. Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland does not see the possibility of supporting this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. Time's running out. Therefore, Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Circle of the Polish Confederation. There isn't. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Rutka, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There it is. You're welcome, sir. Excuse me, what time's the vote? Excuse me, how long do I have? One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u327	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What does this bill bring? Firstly, it allows the funds to be taken out of the CEPiK fund, i.e. the funds which, with each technical examination, pay the heart. And that's once again when the government is running a criminal policy against drivers. Secondly, in the law we will also find such legal grounds for fraud related to the destiny of 2% GDP for defence. We read that for these expenses, the PiS will include expenses for the Air Emergency Service or for the training of civilians at universities. This is a huge fraud when it comes to defence capabilities in Poland. The PiS also hits officials, because the liquidation of the prize fund for outstanding achievements is de facto the praise of mediocrity. And Poles will pay for this praise, because those who are active, who want to do something, will not have this motivation, and this is just the tip of the mountain. I am surprised that the government has submitted such scandalous budget projects, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because you can describe them like this: zero visions, no development, no responsibility. We will not support these budget laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In recent years, the government did not count on public money, but on the contrary, it was very wasteful. Now that the time has come, who will suffer the most? Of course, the budgetary sphere, the employees of the budgetary sphere, who have never made a good profit because of the freezing of wages at the level of this year, the freezing of the basis for the write-down of the social benefit fund or the abandonment of the creation of a separate fund of prizes. And in services such as Customs and Police and other services of reward have always been and should be. After all, the work of customs-treasure bodies is highly rewarded, which encourages activity, efficiency. Unfortunately, it is created, as a colleague said, a philosophy such as the praise of mediocrity. I ask you what the consequences of such unfair actions on budget workers, such decisions that are very harmful, which should not be done, because here are services that are low-paid. This is [[♪ The bell ♪]] Big mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u330	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u331	Unaccomplicated. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will not refer to the 3 million for the renovation of the government center in Łańsk, because there are e.g. replacement carpets, there are almost made golden handles. I would like these carpets to be listed in the headquarters in Łódź, where these carpets are 20 to 30 years old and are already sticking away from the floor. And just now, in the Committee on Public Finance, we took 20 million PLN from the fund for the renovation of district commands. I will refer to another article, because in my opinion this resort in Łańsk is just a front for a much bigger scandal which is in this bill. It's about art. 73, which states that the debt of the Solidarity Fund will be remitted to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Under this complicated operation is hidden the fact that the government finally and directly (the bell) finances its electoral promises, i.e. the thirteenth and fourteenth pension. Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen! Politics must be for generations, not for terms. We understand the needs of pensioners, but this money cannot be taken from the Demographic Reserve Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u332	Thank you, Member. At the same time, I should like to inform you that you have broken the recommendations of the Bureau and the Convention of Seniors regarding the presence in the sitting room. I'd ask that it doesn't happen again. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u333	Dear Marshal! Mr. Vice Minister! Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, which of the PiS is alone in this room! Because I think it's a shame to hear about the budget bill today. I wanted to ask the Minister, did you start with each other? Did you start from each other, from your salaries, from the organization of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, from savings? You start and you say 10.5. millions of people will be affected e.g. By freezing the social benefit fund, but the state at home savings in government reconstruction you do not make any, because supposedly out of 20 resorts there will be 14 and additionally other offices. So anyone who starts saving, setting an example, starts with himself. And it's scandalous, like, among other things. Says a friend of mine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the Polish Coalition that this will also apply to health care workers. During the pandemic period? Shame on you for such solutions, or think about it and we'll change it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u334	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please inform me why you are burdening your irresponsible financial policy on public sector workers. Officials should be well rewarded in order to perform their functions responsibly, to make decisions so that competent people who want to work, are engaged, not working for ideas, but because they have to keep their families and themselves out of something. So explain to me why 2 billion go to public television at the expense of freezing wages in the budget. On the other hand, you are writing in the Budget Act very optimisticly: the accelerated rate of private domestic consumption, but you are planning to freeze in public administration and write-downs to an occupational welfare fund. Isn't there a contradiction here that there is an increase in domestic demand for private investment, but at the same time a freeze in the budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u336	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is a sad summary of the current sitting and basically the entire year of your term of office, because today we had to raise taxes, over-regulate the economy, and at the end of the discussion about the budget, an exceptionally indebted budget, while at the same time very optimistic presentation by the Minister of Finance. And this bill shows that we're in a very deep crisis, so your well-being, showing how we're coming out of this crisis, is just bullshit. So I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to tell you honestly what the state's financial situation is and what Poland really is about the financial crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u338	Thank you, sir. And also Members of the Late House. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask why, despite the promises made in the budget for 2021, there is no provision for a dollar to raise the salaries of teachers. The government has no problem finding funds to pay wages to miners who are to receive them for not going to work, while the declarations made to teachers are nothing... Each gold spent on education produces greater awareness and knowledge of society. Soon we will celebrate the day of the education commission, the celebration of Polish teachers. I'm sure there'll be a celebration. And to you, the only member of the PiS, I have a kind request. Then, when they ask you, Mr PiS, how you behaved towards teachers, about the increase for teachers, let the Member speak frankly that the Left has called for you, however, to revise your view on this (the bell) issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u340	Thank you, sir. One last question, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Whether the government, under the name of special arrangements for implementing the budget law, intends to introduce similar solutions, as in the case of an anti-crisis shield, which allows the construction of housing estates in areas previously excluded from construction, as is the case by the sea, in Mechelinki near Gdynia, where a luxury settlement is established in the floodplain. In view of the salary freeze planned in 2021 at the level of the current year in the public finance sector, it is proposed to add an additional provision - this is Article. 10 - preventing an increase in salaries during 2021. Hence my question. When consumption is to be one of the most important factors for the increase in government income, the freezing of wages in the public finance sector is once again being introduced. How is individual consumption expected to grow if there is no wage increase (the Bell) and inflation is rising? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u342	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Sebastian Skuz, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the question of the allocation of 0,2% to defence, these solutions are rather systemic than financial in nature, as there are small expenditures, such as military agencies, military universities and air ambulances, which are also used by military services. The budgetary sphere received a 6% increase this year. Similarly, teachers received increases, and here the effects of the next year are guaranteed. As I said, when presenting the bill around the budget, prizes can be awarded, but not by creating additional funds from the fund, but from natural savings such as. fixed-term savings. The issue of renovation in Łansk was also raised. I would point out that the around budget law for the current year included such provisions. It is necessary for the institutions of the budgetary economy to create a material legal basis so that they could receive grants, and this was the basis this year. As this investment could not be realised due to the pandemic situation, it would move to the following year. In the area of police funding and the transfer of 20 million to the service today, I would like to point out that this year, in the revision of the budget law for 2020 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will receive more than 1600 million, including the Police - over 1 billion 300. And the question was, did we start saving ourselves? I would like to point out that, as you know very well, the multipliers of the remuneration of ministers and vice-ministers have been at the same level for many years. We discussed the sound state situation regarding the budget law when we discussed the budget law for 2020, 2021. I think I've exhausted my list of questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u344	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block, i.e. at 3 p.m. 20. Until then, I'm declaring a recess. I repeat, at the hour. 20, we'll join the voting block. Get ready, because there'll be a lot of them, 70 after I've been informed, so it's gonna take some time. Thank you very much. Time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 04 hours 20 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed with the quorum. Please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know. I'm sorry. Please tell me it's a quorum. Yeah, yeah, we're waiting on a quorum confirmation. Marshal, what do we do now? But we didn't hear it was a quorum. I know. I'm sorry. The microphone was off. Because you didn't hear what you said. Thank you. 431 Members voted. For - 270... Yeah, it doesn't matter. 431 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The committee responsible submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Ignacy Łyskowski on the 200th anniversary of his birth, print No. 658. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I don't hear any objections, I'll be careful... Objection. ...that the Sejm accepted the offer. Did I hear an objection? No, no, no. Please? Withdrawn. Withdrawn. Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, - about the medical fund. The reports shall be printed in 666 and 669 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Ignacy Łyskowski on the 200th anniversary of his birth (prints Nos 611 and 658). Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Jarosław Rzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u345	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Allow me, ladies and gentlemen... I would like to present a report on the work on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Ignacy Łyskowski on the 200th anniversary of his birth. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 22a paragraph. 2 and paragraph 2. After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 16 September 2020, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the draft resolution in print No 611 to the Committee on Culture and Media, which, following its first reading and after considering the draft resolution at its meeting on 6 October, asks the High Sejm to adopt the resolution. From this point of view, I would like to thank the applicant, Paul Szramka, for preparing the project and the whole Committee on Culture and Media - for the substantive work on the project and the amendments made. Mr. Marshal, do you want me to read the project? Yes, read it. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of Ignacy Łyskowski on the 200th anniversary of his birth. On 12 September 1820 Ignacy Łyskowski was born in Mileszewa's estate in the district of Brodnicki - an outstanding social activist, Polish Member, and a positivist. In 1848 he became a delegate of the counties of Brodnicki and Lubawski to the Frankfurt National Assembly in Frankfurt am Main. He was involved in the development of the Polish League in Pomerania. In 1861, he contributed to the formation of the Michałów Land Agronomic Society, whose activity consisted in establishing folk libraries and spreading knowledge about the change in the way of cultivation of the land, i.e. the transition from a three-pole to a crop rotation. In 1867, together with the Donimirski Theodore and Jacint Jackowski, he convened the first meeting of the economic sejm of Poles from Western Prussia in Toruń. In order to promote education, protect the Polish language and raise the expertise of farmers and craftsmen in 1869, together with Ludwik Ślaskie and Leon Czarlinski, he established the Society of Moral Interests of the Polish People under the Prussian Rule. In 1875 he became the first president of the Scientific Society in Toruń. In 1866, Ignacy Łyskowski was elected as a Member of the Prussian Parliament and in 1867 as a Member of the German Parliament. For nearly 20 years of his career at this level he was considered one of the best speakers and most experienced Polish parliamentarians. He served as President of the Polish Circle for many years. In his role as Member, he strongly opposed Germanisation in education, judiciary and administration, demanding equality with regard to the Polish language. As a Member of the Brodnicki County, he actively contributed to the establishment of a secondary school in Brodnica with the right to teach Polish language optionally. Ignacy Łyskowski died on 14 July 1886 in Poznań and his remains were found in the crypt of the church in Lembarg. In recognition of the great merits of Ignacy Łyskowski, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors him on this year's 200th anniversary of his birthday and expresses its deep hope that his life and activities will become a worthy example. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u346	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak? No one's checking in. We therefore proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 658 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 428, no one was against, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Ignacy Łyskowski on the 200th anniversary of his birth. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the budget law for 2020. The additional committee report shall be in print No 636-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today 13 amendments were tabled to the Government's draft law amending the budget law for 2020. This project was referred to the Committee on Public Finance. The Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt seven amendments, reject six amendments and adopt the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 636. The Commission also presents a minority proposal, as well as an additional report of amendments, on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment to the text part of the draft law, the applicant proposes in Annex 10 to the Act the inclusion of multiannual programmes in the task force. j. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 299, against - 1, holding 133. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 2 to 13. reported in Annex 2 containing a plan for State budget expenditure in 2020. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes a change in Part 4: Supreme Court. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 254, against - 58, holding 131. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to Part 15/1: Ministry of Justice. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 303, no one was against, 137 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 4 billion. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 207, against - 220, stopped 14. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 2990 million and in Part 83: Special provisions to reduce expenditure under heading 5: Measures for land transport tasks by PLN 1200 million. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 204, against - 229, holding off on 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by 2 990 627 thousand. zł. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 208, against - 230, holding 13. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by 1,464 140 thousand. zł. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 206, against - 228, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 250 million. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 84, against - 228, holding 136. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by 26,730,000. zł. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 82, against - 230, with 137 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 42: Internal affairs reduce expenditure by PLN 10 million to address threats affecting the security of ICT systems of public administrations. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Ooh... Cheers. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 230, against - 182, 34 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 42: Internal affairs reduce expenditure by PLN 10 million for the performance of statutory tasks on the recognition of threats affecting State security. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For-- 233, against-- 177, holding off on 39. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to Part 45: Foreign Affairs. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 233, against -28, with 187 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the application of a minority, the applicant proposes an amendment to Part 83: Provisions under heading 12: Combating infectious animal diseases. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 54, against - 255, with a hold of 138. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to Part 83: Provisions under heading 56: Reserve for systemic changes and certain organisational changes. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For -438, against -3, the 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 363, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 232, against - 218, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the budget law for 2020. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Committee on the Government's draft law on electronic services. The additional committee report shall be in print No 598-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies considered 16 amendments tabled during the second reading of the Electronic Service Act. 15 amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, one amendment by the Civic Coalition. The Commission recommends adopting all 16 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u350	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 598. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 applicants propose inter alia. give a different wording to points 6 and 10. This minority proposal brings together minority proposals from 2 to 24. We will vote on these minority proposals together. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 8th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1st to 24th will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 165, against - 275, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 79a. Amendments 6, 14 and 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 6, 14 and 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For -278, against -134, halted 37. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 83 applicants propose e.g. give a different wording to points 3 and 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. In - 449 against 2, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 83 The applicants propose to delete point 14. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal, I don't suppose that's my competence, but maybe we could combine these votes right now? This is a completely uncontroversial act. Thank you. It's, I guess, impossible. 451 Members voted. For -442, no one was against, no one stopped 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 95 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 17. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For -449, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 104 applicants propose to add point 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 434 was for, 2 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 118 applicants propose in point 3 to give a different wording to paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. In -444, 1 was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 124. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For -438, 1 against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 131. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For -439, against -1, the 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 143. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 436, no one was against, 9 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 144. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 438, no one was against, no one stopped 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 150 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. Amendments 13 and 15 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 12, 13 and 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For -442, no one was against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 598, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For -442, against -4, holding down 5. The Sejm passed a bill on electronic services. Member with a formal request? Yes. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I submit a formal application on the basis of Article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for convening the Senior Convention and consulting this project with the new government, because I really do not know if you really want to impose a new tax - on average about 15% additionally - for limited companies, of which there are 40,000. Is this really what the new government wants? Does the really new government - because we do not - want to impose it, or eliminate the abolition for those working abroad? How will you try to encourage Poles working abroad to return to their country and work here? After all, you said: do not leave, the Prime Minister said: do not leave, and you do the opposite. Just as you have withdrawn from the civil servants' impunity project, withdraw from this project. It's about time we talked about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u352	We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 642, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Scandal. You've locked the doors for the Poles. Mrs... You're closed. Prime Minister Kaczyński locked the door. ...scams to make everyone equal. What a scam we know for 70 million... There's no euphoria. 450 Members voted. For-- 219, against-- 231, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2021. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 641, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. For - 174, against - 232, halted 47. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19 (prints Nos 653 and 666). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u353	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission has examined the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act. The Senate has tabled 20 amendments. The Commission recommends 6 amendments to reject, 14 amendments to accept. At the same time, it recommends that Amendment 1 be voted together with 17th, on Amendment 2, including 4, 6, 13, 15, 18 and 20, and on Amendment 8 to vote in conjunction with 14 and 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u354	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. Point 1 (3) of the Law amending the Senate proposes to repeal paragraph 1. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 37m Act on toll motorways and National Road Fund. Amendment 17 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 17 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 229, against -210, the 9. The Parliament rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. Point 3 (2) of the Law amending the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2 point 3 of the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. Amendments 4, 6, 13, 15, 18 and 20 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2, 4, 6, 13, 15, 18 and 20 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. In - 1, against - 452, no one stopped. The Sejm has rejected the amendments... Of course, in view of the failure to obtain the majority of the absolute Sejm, he accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Section 4 (1) of the Law amending the Senate proposes to amend Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In -2, against -446, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes to delete the article. The 5th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. For - 231, against - 222, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The 13th Law amending the Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. Article 2 30a Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. In - 3, against - 449, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th Senate amendment in the added article. 13a of the amending act proposes to add an article. 6a in the Law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. Amendments 14 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8, 14 and 19 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 47, against -401, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. 14 The Law amending the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 39d paragraph. 6 Act on investments in the construction of external ports. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For -3, against -436, hold down 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 10 to 14. The Senate passed the article. 16 Amending Law containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In Amendment 10, the Senate proposes to delete amendment 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 229, against - 217, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes that amendments 3 and 4 be deleted. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 224, against - 220, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 1 15zs The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. In -4, against -444, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The 22nd Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. In - 1, against -436, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Medical Fund (Prints Nos 656 and 669). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u355	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Senate's resolution on the Medical Fund Act. The Senate tabled 37 amendments, some of which were recommended by the committee to accept and some were rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u356	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to delete paragraph 1. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. It's not working. It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 208, against - 240, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete paragraph. Article 6 6. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Absolute majority - 224 Members. For - 208, against - 239, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Point 8 (2) of the Senate proposes that contributions from the state budget of not less than PLN 4 billion should be the revenue of the Fund. Amendments 32 and 37 are combined with the amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 32 and 37 will want to press the button. It's not working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's working, it's working. 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 218 Members, against - 230, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Applause]] In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. Amendment 31 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5 and 31, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. 228 Members voted against 218. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 of the Senate proposes that the entity referred to in that provision should be a therapeutic entity. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. He was 1, against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. Amendment 13 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Nobody voted against - 446. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, Art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 230, against - 216, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 19. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 225, against - 220, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) of the Senate proposes that the Investment Programme should include support for the development of healthcare provision infrastructure. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Absolute majority - 224 Members. For - 226, against - 211, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Senate proposes to amend the introduction to the calculation. Amendment 15 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 11 and 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Absolute majority - 223 Members. In -231, against - 212, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 12, the Senate proposes to delete paragraph 1. Article 4 23. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 228, against - 214, holding one. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 226, against - 216, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 17 to 19. The Senate reported it to the article. 35 Act containing amendments to the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. In the 17th amendment to the article. 31o, paragraph 31o. 2 (1) (c) and (5) (a) and the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 229, against - 216, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. Paragraph 97. 3 point 2g of the Senate proposes that healthcare provided outside the country should be provided to recipients. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. In -1, against -445, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the new wording of Article. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 3 (1). The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 226, against - 222, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 20 to 30. The Senate reported it to the article. 37 Act amending the Act on the Refund of Medicines, Special Nutritional Foods and Medical Devices. In the 20th amendment, the Senate proposes a change in lit. b in Article. 2 point 24a. Amendments 21 and 28 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20, 21 and 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 229, against - 164, with 54 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 22nd Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. Article 1 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 238, against - 158, the 46 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amendment of the introduction to the calculation in Article. 37a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In - 1, against - 448, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 25c. 2 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. For - 229, against - 211, holding down 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the introduction to the calculation in Article. 37a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For-- 233, against-- 165, withholds 44. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 40a paragraph. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 230, against - 214, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 40a The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. For - 228, against - 201, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 40a paragraph. 6 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. Amendment 33 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 29 and 33 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In -5 against -442, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 30th amendment to the article. 40a The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 8. The Commission requests rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 228, against - 206, with a hold of 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. 41 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 229, against - 214, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For -1, against -443, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 36th amendment to the article. 41 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. In -2, against -438, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Medical Fund Act. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 38 hrs. 22 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 18th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation, will make his first statement. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am delighted that the Prime Minister is in the Chamber, because my statement will be addressed to the Prime Minister. I am a Member from Bydgoszcz, from Kujaw and Pomerania and I am asked every day by voters when they will be promised by the government of flu vaccines and when they will be in Polish pharmacies and wholesalers. This is asked by people who have been vaccinated regularly in recent years, by their parents, and above all by seniors for whom the vaccine was intended to be free of charge, [[Applause]] Local authorities and employers also ask, who wanted to inoculate willing teachers, health professionals and other high-risk groups free of charge. Dear Prime Minister, All of you. They get the same information in pharmacies and wholesalers: flu vaccines were a few for the pharmacy and now they don't know when they're gonna be and if they're even gonna be there. And all of this is happening in the time of the great increase in infection, the number of deaths of infected patients. Today, more than 3,000 have been formally detected. infections in Poland. In some voivodships already around 80% The ventilators are occupied by the sick. Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship announced today that 21 out of 25 ventilators are occupied in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. So the doctors will soon be faced with a choice for whom to assign such a ventilator. Dear Prime Minister, The Polish health care system will not bear two epidemics - flu and COVID. The government's known about this since March. The voters want me to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health: Where are the flu vaccines? Along with the respirators in government warehouses or in the dealer's ski shed? Or maybe they're just gone, and they won't be for everyone, because Minister Szumowski, popularly speaking, blew the case and went on holiday. And if there's no vaccine for everyone, who's gonna get it? Only younger or just older, or those with referrals and referrals from whom? Yesterday, the Minister of Health announced in the media a policy of zero tolerance for Poles and Poles. And I ask myself, when will the Minister of Health start a zero tolerance policy towards himself and his officials? I ask myself: When will there be zero tolerance for liars that they are best at dealing with the epidemic in the world and this epidemic is in reverse and under control? I ask myself, this is the third question: When will there be zero tolerance for those who have ignored the purchase of flu vaccines and wasted public money in strange, private businesses when buying masks and ventilators? These answers were answered by the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for the Poles and Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, across the country, farmers struck, left with tractors, machines, expressing their strong opposition to the Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. In the Seym, the work on this bill lasted very briefly. Many aspects and consequences of this law have not been taken into account. The ritual slaughter is in line with the law in the European Union. It is carried out by many countries of the European Union, among others. France, Spain, Ireland, Greece, Croatia, Italy, United Kingdom, Austria, Lithuania, Latvia, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Hungary. Today, all agricultural organizations, agricultural chambers speak with one voice, everyone speaks against this law. The senate has ordered forensics. We're waiting for them. Today there was also a debate in Top Agrar Poland, where the participants were definitely against this law. It's not just banks who talk about the situation in agriculture, it's asking about liquidity, it's about payment congestion. The situation in agriculture is difficult. Yesterday I spoke at the Agriculture Committee meeting with her chairman Robert Telus about the urgent convening of the Agriculture Committee to discuss all aspects of this law. A debate on this law is needed. Farmers want to speak in it, they want to be heard. They don't want to sign the bill in this form. Farmers want to live a decent life. Mrs. Marshal! Production of meat in Poland in 2019 is: 2,5 million - poultry - first place in Europe, 2 million - pork - fourth place in Europe, 0.56 million - beef - sixth place in Europe. Exports accounted for 12.6 billion, of which 5 billion were ritual slaughter - second place in Europe. As far as beef is concerned, 6,7 billion, 2.2 billion was ritual slaughter. Today there were slogans on the banners: Ecologists and Members, how much does the West pay you to destroy Polish agriculture? These dramatic slogans and this motto should speak to Members and Senators before voting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Seym and in the Senate over this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u360	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u361	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have already talked about the situation of the Gryfia Shiprepair Yard many times from this podium. Prime Minister! That's where the human tragedy takes place. Your people have just prepared a request to sell part of this plant, a plant in Świnoujście, where over 130 people work, a plant that was once connected, was made up of a branch in Świnoujście and in Szczecin. And today a decision is made to close this plant properly and there no one will ever repair any ships again. Workers of the repair yard in Świnoujście are offered work in Szczecin. Every day they'd have to get up and come back to work two hours early. Who's gonna be one of those professionals, because there are professionals still working there today, who wanted to work in Szczecin? Prime Minister! I appeal to you not to get rid of this bet. The repair industry has a future in Poland, and Świnoujście is the place where it can be done and has been done for 50 years. Today, someone you've appointed to replace the CEO wants to take out this bet. He does not want to maintain ship repairs in Świnoujście, there is only the issue of finance and construction of another megalomania, a great dock for repair yard in Szczecin for supposedly 150 or 300 million PLN. But who's gonna give them a loan if Gryfia's repair yard is in debt today? I appeal to you, Prime Minister, not to destroy the Świnoujście branch. There they have their order portfolio, they have their contractors that they've been working with for many, many years. And today you want to take them out of their jobs. Therefore, we as Western Pomeranian Members will try very hard to appeal, because I know that this week the decision is to be made precisely to sell this branch in Świnoujście and to close completely the ship repairs in Świnoujście. Prime Minister, I appeal to you to come to your senses, for there will be no return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. The battle was a decisive point of the Polish-Bolshevik war, fought between 12 and 25 August 1920, called a miracle on the Vistula River, and was also 18. A decisive battle in the history of the world. It's because of Lord Edgar D.Abernon, British ambassador to pre-war Poland. At that time Poles saved Europe from the wave of communism. The plans of Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin included the capture of Lviv, followed by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Austria and Italy. The Battle of Warsaw consisted of three phases: defensive battles on the frontfields of Radzymin, defense battle and attack maneuvering of the 5th army of General Sikorski over the Wkra and the impact of the maneuvering group from above the hog and chase. The first phase of the battle facilitated the concentration of Polish troops over Wieprzem on 15 August thanks to the actions of Gen. Żeligowski and Gen. Jan Growądkowski, Radzymin and lost combat positions were regained. A day later, a maneuvering group under the command of Józef Piłsudski launched an attack on the hogs, which was a complete surprise for the Bolsheviks. Then the Soviet army was surrounded and destroyed on the northern front, thanks to the speed of the Polish infantry and the decision-making of the chief chief. On 17 August Mikhail Tuchaczewski ordered the Russian troops to return east. This decision was late because the Bolsheviks fled in fear, as reported by the local residents of Józef Piłsudski. On his way to Minsk Mazowiecki, the Chief Leader came to the conclusion that the majority of Russians had to move back from Warsaw to the east. It is therefore necessary, as soon as possible, to order the complete uniformity of the activities of all troops gathered near Warsaw, in order to break up one of the Soviet armies with a vigorous pursuit and pressure to break up from everywhere and shock the rest of the enemy forces. Piłsudski handed over the command to the attacking groups of General Edward Rydz-Śmigłowi from Wieprz, while in Warsaw, together with General Tadeusz Rozwadowski, the chief architect of the victory over the Bolsheviks, he prepared an order to pursue on the lines Międzyrzec, Białystok, Kałuszyn, Mazowieck, Warszawa and Łomża. The counteroffensive of Poles on the whole front line began. As a result of the Battle of Warsaw on 15 October, there was a ceasefire in Riga, followed by a peace treaty. Thus, until the aggression against Poland by the Soviet Union - I remind you that to this day we celebrate this anniversary - Polish-Russian relations have been established, the eastern border has been formed. The Soviet Army's codes were undoubtedly broken by Lt. Jan Kowalewski, captured by Major Zygmunt Podhorski's staff 4. The Soviet Army in Ciechanów, including radio stations, as well as huge amounts of missiles, ammunition and equipment provided to us by the Kingdom of Hungary. Thank you very much. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u364	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, a reform of psychiatry has been implemented for two years, which is based on outpatient care rather than on medical treatment in closed hospitals. Such a solution gives a sense of security and continuity of treatment for patients and, above all, provides adequate support for individual needs, makes them more vulnerable to crises, not left to themselves and isolated from society and, above all, know where to look for help. A very good example of a pilot facility has been operating for 2 years in my region of the Health Centre Psychological in Cieszyn, thanks to which the availability of specialist psychiatry advice in the district of Cieszyn has improved dramatically. Unfortunately, the piloting started was halted due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the introduction of a lockdown, where many organizations had to change to continue functioning. An example of Cieszyna shows that the offered environmental treatment aid allows you to reach people who are unable to use outpatient care, and previously the only form of treatment was hospitalization. The fact that a specialist can be reached free of charge, without long waiting for a visit, is an extremely important argument that makes sense of such facilities. Currently, the process of reforming psychiatric care is at a crucial moment for the success of the time and requires urgent decisions on the continuation, especially now that during the pandemic the number of people seeking psychiatric and therapeutic assistance has increased significantly. As a country, we cannot afford to finance psychiatry at the level of the penultimate place in the European Union. It is therefore very important to continue the ongoing reform and to create a care system that is friendly and human and so that institutions such as this one in Cieszyn can continue to support the sick in need effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u366	Thank you, Member. And please, Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u367	Dear Marshal! Thank you for your perseverance. If you don't mind, I'd also like to thank the current employees of the Sejm because it's a little late. What was I gonna say? Well, the High House adopts almost every meeting resolutions to commemorate, celebrate, recall certain important figures or some important events in the history of our country. On the eve of the 40th anniversary of the Polish August, President Boris Budka submitted a draft resolution to Marshal Witek concerning just the 40th anniversary of the Polish August. Unfortunately, the project was addressed to the so-called. inter-club consultations. Dalibog, it's been eight weeks, these consultations are ongoing and ongoing, and I suspect they won't end. That is why I wanted to read some passages from this resolution - uncontested: On 14 August 1980, a strike broke out in the Gdańsk Shipyard. Lenin. The direct cause of the strike was the dismissal of Anna Valentynowicz. Lech Wałęsa led the strike. The protest quickly took over other workplaces of Gdańsk and the Gdansk Coast, and the strikers set up the Inter-Business Strike Committee. Then there is a discussion of the postulates, a reminder that the strike has expanded to almost the whole country, other strike outbreaks have been created, where agreements have been concluded, such as in Szczecin, Huta Katowice, Jastrzębie-Zdrój. And well, the conclusion: without the Polish August, 80th, without the establishment of the "Solidarity" cannot be imagined the political breakthrough that took place in Poland in 1989, as well as the fall of the peoples of 1989 in Central and Eastern Europe, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the overthrow of the iron curtain dividing Europe. The Polish Parliament thankes and commends the people of August for their work for freedom, as well as for all people of good will from all over the world who supported the solidarity movement. As the author of this project, I admit that I very much regret that the Polish Sejm was unable to adopt an appropriate resolution, I stress - very neutral. You can read it on the Sejm website. Unfortunately, I will say this, but I would like to remind my fellow Members that thanks to the people of August, thanks to Polish August they can sit in free, independent Poland today. Thank you again. I cordially greet the Marshal, the Sejm's staff and a fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u368	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of cases of new koravirus infections in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship is 119th October. This means that the number of all cases of infections in the voivodship since the start of the pandemic is 2144. The total number of deaths in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship caused by COVID-19 infection since the start of the pandemic is 26. At the same time, Elbląg and Elbląg are fighting for a gynaecological and obstetric ward in Elbląg City Hospital. The Elbląg authorities as a reason for such a decision indicate savings, lack of budget resources. Another situation. Warmińsko-Mazury Voivodeship administrative decision directs medical personnel to Ostróda, of course from another centre, because there is a shortage of medical personnel. Hospitals are looking for volunteers to serve patients because the territorial troops have been withdrawn. This is mainly dictated by insufficient measures for health care. However, the level of defence expenditure in 2021 is to be more than 2,2% GDP. I would like to express my concern - and misunderstanding - about keeping defence spending at this level. The budget includes 15 billion for arms expenditure. Are we going to fight with the coronavirus and the economic collapse of cannons by buying military equipment abroad? Is this really necessary, especially at a time when we are looking for savings wherever possible when there is no means to ensure the proper functioning of health care? It concerns such a high level, especially since it is one of the highest levels in NATO and exceeds by 0,2% the required level, a requirement that many Member States still fail to meet. I therefore call for these measures to be transferred to combat the current enemy, which is a pandemic, including health care in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-07-sejm-18-1.u370	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 18th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 19th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 27 and 28 October 2020, will be delivered to you and to your Members. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 02]]
