ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request to postpone the session until Tuesday, so that the Government of the Republic of Poland can publish a bill which gives allowances for medical professionals and medical staff. Until today, this bill has not been published, but today in the High Sejm a law is to be enforced, which supplements for medical practitioners are to be taken away. And it has to be made clear that this is the first government in the world, the first government in a democratic country in history, who wants to take medical and medical supplies at the top of the epidemic. Don't lie to me. Stop lying. Keep your voice down. This is an absolute scandal and we absolutely do not agree to it. At the same time, the High Sejm led by PiS wants to impose new taxes on Poles, on more than 40 thousand. limited partnership. Here is a quote from Mr Morawiecki: New taxes are needed to save Polish entrepreneurs. That is why taxes are levied on Polish entrepreneurs. This is logic that has nothing to do with common sense. This is an absolute scandal. You are destroying Polish entrepreneurs who are barely living today, through your inconsistent law, through the regulations that you are introducing, and through the legal chaos that you have introduced. We are absolutely protesting this case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u2	Thank you very much. There was a request for adjournment, but two more formal requests. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Exactly on November 28, 1918, 102 years ago, the Polish people obtained election rights. It's a big anniversary giving responsibility for our country to girls, women, our friends, friends who built responsibility like men. Today, the same responsibility rests with grandchildren and great-grandchildren who protest on the streets of Polish cities, fighting for their rights. The right to vote is the right to decide. And I'm saying this as a man because I don't think there can be any division between men and women who have different rights. I would like, Your Marshal, to give a round of applause on this important day on the 102nd anniversary of all Poles for fighting bravely and valiantly for their rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u4	Thank you, sir. Of course, it wasn't a formal conclusion. And a formal proposal, I hope, by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u5	I ask for a break and a call of the Senior Convention to put to the vote the resolution which we submitted to your marshal yesterday, which was signed by the Members of the Confederation and Solidarity of Poland. It is a resolution which responds to the delusions of the European Parliament, which seems to be able to review the work of the highest Polish authorities in matters reserved for their exclusive competence. I hope that during the break you will gather courage, here I am talking primarily to Members on the right, and you will stop pretending that it is raining when they spit on us. That's hiding your head in the sand. Last year I talked to the President about this - in a similar situation when we prepared such a resolution, and the state refused to vote on it - that we are creating a precedent for silent consent. Now we're reaping the consequences. Yesterday's precedent is slowly becoming customary. We cannot allow the European Parliament to speak on matters that belong to Polish competences. We do not review the work of other Member States and the European Parliament and expect reciprocity in this respect. Thank you. And the resolution is a cyrillic written?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u6	Thank you, sir. Two formal applications have been made. First, we will vote on the formal request for a break. I will now put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? No, no, no, no, no, Who's holding back? The adjournment will be voted on, right? 442 Members voted. 105 - for, 318 - against, 19 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. It's not working! It's working. It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 210 - for, 230 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 787 and 788 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Senate adopted a resolution rejecting the Act amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19, print No 786. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including consideration of this resolution. I propose, on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, examination of the resolution without prior referral to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The planned item 62. of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws (Prints Nos 783 and 787). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws, print No 783. The resolution proposes 39 amendments. The Commission has given a positive opinion on 4 amendments and the other amendments have been negative. I recommend that the High House adopt 4 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u8	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 28. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 2 (2) Points 1 and 2. Amendments 4, 5, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 23, 29, 30, 32, 34 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. In - 231, against - 216, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the article. 2 (2) Points 1 and 2. Amendments 3, 8, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 22, 31, 33 and 36 to 38 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 228, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority of votes. In the 6th amendment to the article. 7aa paragraph. Point 1 of the Senate proposes an amendment to point 1. a and b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was for, 446 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 7aa The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 2. Amendments 9 and 39 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7, 9 and 39 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 227 for, 222 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 24th amendment to the article. 28g Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 3 for, 448 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment to the article. 28g The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 5. Amendment 26 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 25 and 26 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 27th amendment to Article. 28m. 4 The Senate proposes to amend point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 10 for, 437 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 28th amendment to the article. 28o paragraph. 2 The Senate proposes to amend the introduction to the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws (prints Nos 784 and 788). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u9	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed the Senate's resolution on this law. The Senate has proposed 30 amendments. The Committee on Public Finance has given a positive opinion on 14 amendments and recommends that they be adopted. The remaining amendments were negative and proposed to be rejected by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u10	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. do not broadcast a new lithium sound. c in Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; Point 28a. Amendments 10, 22, 24 to 26, 29 and 30 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 10, 22, 24 to 26, 29 and 30, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23y. The amendments of Senate 3rd, 4th and 11th to 13th are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 2 to 4 and 11 to 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. No one was in favor of -444, 9 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. do not change the paragraph. Article 2 27g. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th Amendment, the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment to the amended Article. 30f paragraph. Point 3 (1). Amendments 15 and 20 are combined with this amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We will vote on these amendments together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6, 15 and 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was for, 451 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes to replace in particular the words "at least in the introduction to the calculation in the following article. 41c paragraph. 3. This amendment is linked to the 16th Senate amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Two for, 450 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 8 in the inserted article. 41c. This amendment is linked to 17. the Senate amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 17 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes an amendment to the added point 5 in Article. 52n paragraph. 1. The amendments of Senate 18, 19 and 21 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9, 18, 19 and 21 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. No one was against 455, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 10 to 19 were tabled in Article. 2 Amending Act containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 and Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this This amendment is linked to 28. the Senate amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 14 and 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 275 - for, 174 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 23rd Amendment, the Senate proposes to add to the Law amending the article. 5a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 234 - for, against - 221, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 27th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an amendment to the Law amending the article. 17a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19 (print No 786). I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 28 October 2020 amending the Law amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 28 October 2020 amending the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19 will press the button. Scandal. It's a shame here, really. Who's against it? Who's holding back? But Kurski gets 2 billion, right? He's giving and picking up. Disgraceful. 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 21st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow will be 190 years from the memorable night of November 29 to 30, when the November Uprising broke out. It was during this period that the most important views on Poland and concepts of liberation... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give the doctors the money back. Would you please calm down? If you don't want to, you can leave. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Really? [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] You're welcome. Behave yourself, sir. Let him focus on the statement. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Everyone in the courtroom, please calm down. The Member shall make a statement. As always, you have no culture. No aggression. The revolutionary movements coming from Europe were not without significance for the outbreak of the uprising. The beginning of the break-up was a conspiracy at the School of Podchoreżych Infantry in Warsaw led by por. Peter Wysocki. Young underprivileged men and students, and therefore civilians and military men, stood side by side, attacking Belvedere, the seat of Prince Pavlovicz, the brother of Tsar Nicholas I. On 18 December, under pressure from the public opinion and the awakened spirit of the struggle for independence, the Sejm declared the uprising national. The battles at Stokzek, Wawr, Białołęka and Grochow proved to be victorious for the insurgents. An important element was the counter-attack of Gen. Ignacy Prądzyński. Unfortunately, the ineffective attacks of General Jan Skrzynecki interrupted the initial victories of Poles. This was also the case in May 1831 in the battles of Łomża and Ostrołęka. The morale of the Polish army was slowly falling. In July, after the attack on Warsaw, the defense of Wola and the death of General Sowiński, there was a surrender. The result of the uprising was the pacification and militarization of the Polish Kingdom, the harsh repression of Russians, the limitation of the autonomy of the Polish Kingdom, the replacement of the Constitution with an organic statute, the abolition of the Sejm and local governments and total russification. A citadel was built, Polish education was destroyed, and insurgents were incorporated into the Russian army or sent into Russia. The Great Emigration has begun. Each generation judged the uprising differently. It is worth recalling that the insurgents did not receive external help, even from the diplomacy of Western countries. The uprising for a time has shaken the power of Russia. It didn't end with surrender or agreements, it ended with emigration. Prince Adam Czartoryski said that the resistance that the Polish revolution gave to the forces of the Russian Empire surprised Europe as well as its sudden collapse. Perhaps Europe would not be so surprised if it helped Polish insurgents even a little. The effort of the uprising did not go to waste. The struggle for independence was revived and it was proved that the Polish case was not something that could be done halfway, as at the Vienna Congress. The Polish people instilled patriotic values in themselves and showed that they wanted to restore the country within its original limits. Hello and praise the heroes. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u12	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns drastic restrictions for the tourism industry during the coming winter. 80% of tourism lives on. inhabitants of mountain and submountain communities, a significant part of our society. Self-governments and entrepreneurs are well aware of how to ensure the health safety of tourists and residents and at the same time do not destroy everything that operates around them, do not lead to the general bankruptcy of the entire tourism industry, which they are unable to prevent disproportionately low and selective compensation planned by the government. Why, then, didn't Deputy Prime Minister Gowin and his subordinate ministries engage in a dialogue with entrepreneurs and local authorities of mountain communities before taking such drastic restrictions on the functioning of the tourism industry? It's just unbelievable how this is treated by real and responsible mountain resort hosts. The local authorities of the mountain communes came to Prime Minister Gowin with concrete proposals for solutions, the use of which would eliminate the spread of the disease, coritotus. Mountain resorts for years, building tourist infrastructure, have always taken care of the best and safest conditions for rest. In their opinion, mountain towns are best prepared to prevent the spread of the virus. This year, during the summer and autumn period, these villages hosted several million tourists, yet the prevalence of residents and tourists was negligible. This is influenced by factors such as geographical location and the proper organisation of public spaces. In recent days, local authorities, in agreement with entrepreneurs, have presented to the government a number of concrete solutions concerning the hotel, catering, recreation and leisure areas, which are ready to implement immediately. They are now awaiting an urgent response. The owners of the municipalities point out the absolute need to treat the tourism industry as a whole, taking into account all activities, namely: accommodation, catering, rest, recreation. It is about organizing a winter break for 10 weeks to spread tourist traffic, preventing tourists from leaving our country, treating compensation as a final solution, as most people will not receive compensation. If the government had taken up a dialogue on this issue in advance, I am convinced that there would not have been such a dramatic situation of threat to the people and concern about their own fate. I appeal to the Prime Minister for urgent consideration of the proposals submitted and for discussions with credible and equal partners such as entrepreneurs and local authorities in mountain communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u14	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a black day for Polish health care. Law and Justice took the necessary allowances, which belong to doctors, nurses, diagnostics, x-rays, sterilization, salon, kitchen workers and technical staff working in hospitals that fight for the life and health of Poles, in hospitals that fight COVID. There is a Polish proverb: who gives and receives... And this proverb is dedicated to the Members of Law and Justice. My constituents would very much like to know and know personally, by the name of the person who prepared in Poland a plan to sabotage health care and systematically destroy human resources responsible for the functioning of our health service. In 2005, the Council Poland has adopted a European Union directive on the rules for training nurses, requiring them to complete higher education. The patient's well - being was guided. However, it was not thought that, following the increased requirements, the mid-level medical staff would be properly increased, leading to the emigration of nurses and the legitimate protests of the whole environment. This year the government in response to the dissatisfaction of nursing staff, even though it announced a huge shortage in the labour market, only employed about 1,000. of the total number of more than 4 000 people who have completed their nursing studies. The remaining 3,000. people who have had very expensive studies have either strengthened the Western labour markets or had to reclassify themselves. The same government at the same time pushes in the Sejm a law which allows nurses to enter the Polish labour market after high school and with a very questionable knowledge of Polish language. This is how the PiS spends public taxpayers' money on higher education for middle-level medical personnel, which it then forces to emigrate. Poland educates nurses for Scandinavia, Great Britain or Germany. On the other hand, nurses with no higher education will be drawn to care for Polish patients, ready to work for half the rate they received at hospital secondary schools in Uzbekistan, Iran or Ethiopia. The only formal requirement for taking up work is a written statement about the knowledge of the Polish language, but the law does not specify whether this statement must be written in our national language. Under no circumstances must such activities be accidental and clearly bear the mark of activity to the detriment of the Polish health service and the patient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The case should be thoroughly investigated by the special services both in terms of corruption and in terms of activity to the detriment of the State Treasury. On the other hand, our special forces - after the bluff on identifying the supply of non-existent ventilators and the inability to recover millions from the arms dealer - were apparently equipped with metal sticks and aimed at beating up women, so they probably will not find time to deal with this issue. Today is a black day for Polish health care. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u16	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u17	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to draw attention in this point to the problem that the inhabitants of Zabrze have been facing for many years. I'm talking about the excavation of Red in the Biskupice district, which has poisoned life for years - literally and figuratively - to the people closest to the neighborhoods. Biskupic heap, a remnant of Zabrze mine that no longer exists, covers an area of over 27 hectares. Waste storage was completed there in the 1990s. Nearly 2 million tonnes of waste is deposited in the waste that poses a risk of compression ignition or external interference. The worst is, of course, the summer when the heat pours out of the sky. It is not then possible to open windows in nearby apartments, but at any time of the year the effects are very burdensome for residents. The great extinguishing of the noise started in 2006 and lasted about 5 years. Unfortunately, the work that took place at that time did not produce the desired result. In fact, some of them claim that these actions caused the ignition of another batch of landfill. The problem of smoking noise has been discussed several times during a city council session or widely described in local media. Unfortunately, it hasn't been solved until today. A few weeks ago, the subject returned to the meeting of the Committee on Ecology of the City Council in Zabrze. The meeting, which was a local vision, was attended by the head of the Faculty of Ecology of the City of Zabrze and an expert from the Main Mining Institute conducting the research on the active heap of Red. The Commission has discussed several options for resolving this problem, including the demolition of heaps. Finally, it was found that the most sensible and safe solution would be the systematic extinguishing of the noise and the introduction of preventive solutions. However, these activities involve additional, substantial financial resources. The Commission requested the President of the city of Zabrze to apply to the Silesian voivode for additional funds needed to rehabilitate the heap. Prime Minister! Silesia is a region where air pollution is the largest in our country. Therefore, I appeal to you from this place for support and assistance so that the problem of the heap of Red in Zabrze is resolved as soon as possible for the health of the people of my city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-28-sejm-21-4.u18	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. There's no envoy. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 21st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next sitting of the Sejm will be served to you and to your Members. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 11]]
