ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Dear Senators, located in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. It is only a matter of checking the list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. [[Mr. Marshal, some senators have no ballots.]] What do you mean they don't have ballots? [[Mr. Marshal, some senators aren't caught...]] I can't hear you. [[Some senators are not included on attendance lists in Warsaw. We need to clear this up.]] I can't hear you very well, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, some senators, at least 2 people, are not considered to be participating in meetings in Warsaw.]] Do they participate in meetings in Warsaw? [[Yes. And so it was given by me.]] Okay, well, we're gonna need to restock... [[Yes.]] We're gonna take a two-minute break to get them... [[Good. Thank you.]] ...the ballot card. We're about to rehearse the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Have all the senators got their cards yet? [[Mr. Marshal, just a moment. The cards will be here any minute.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, room 217 is complete.]] Thank you very much. May I have your attention, please? Once again, we will proceed with a vote aimed solely at establishing a list of senators taking part in the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the sitting. [[Voting No 79]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending certain acts on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties The Act amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. and consider it as item twenty-seven of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws and consider it as item 20 of the eighth agenda; the Law amending the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations, and the Law amending the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and certain other laws and consider it as item 29 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to propose deleting the item on the 20th agenda, namely the reports of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions from the petitions considered in 2019, and transferring this item to the next meeting. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be back to discussing item twenty-four of the agenda in a moment, i.e. a second reading of the draft law amending the law of the Criminal Code. Then we will consider point twenty-five, i.e. the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the August agreements. Immediately after considering this point, we will vote on this. Then we will consider point twenty-six, i.e. a law on the remuneration of public service holders. We will vote on this matter immediately after considering this law. Then we will consider the fifteenth point, i.e. second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Juvenile Procedure. Then we will return to the next items according to the order of business. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, in accordance with the rules, I must inform you that on the basis of the article. Paragraph 24 3 Rules of Procedure of the Senate Bureau of the Senate after examining Senator Margareta Budner's case concerning the breach of the obligation laid down in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, adopted a resolution on the return of Senator Margaret Budner to the attention and commitment of her to the proper conduct, which was carried out. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Criminal Code. I would remind you that on Thursday, 14 August this year, the rapporteur, Mr Pociej, presented a report by the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, and also answered the senators' questions. In addition, Minister Sebastian Kalet, on behalf of the government, spoke on the bill and also answered the senators' questions. There's still a discussion I'm opening here. You were the first to sign up for Senator Alexander Pociej. Please take the floor. [[He quit.]] No... [[Mr Marshal, my speech was intended to cover the entire speech of Minister Kaleta. Since, when the Minister spoke, there were only a few people in the courtroom, speaking and arguing with Minister Kaleta would no longer make sense today. Yes, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, senator. The next person to come forward is the senator, Professor Alicia Chybick, who also sits remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I will take the floor, although, of course, it would sound better on Thursday when we started proceding this statutory amendment. I have to speak to you because of Art. 37a of the Penal Code, which, as a result of the changes carried out in the COVID Act, allows doctors and other medical staff to be punished by punishment of up to 8 years in prison for making an unintentional mistake, is terrifying and unacceptable to me. Ladies and gentlemen, every one of us, especially in the days of Cortipinus, but not only... Well, the 200-person team that I'm honored to lead is doing everything in human power to save the lives of every cancer child who's really fighting for his life. I'm afraid that the threat of such punishment will result in no one wanting to work with children who, throughout their entire treatment, are one leg in that world. Of course, such personnel are required to be extremely professional, especially in the departments where life hangs in the balance, but, ladies and gentlemen, you shouldn't do such a thing. In such difficult times, cannons are drawn to people who are doing everything in their power to fight against Coronavirus and that serious disease that develops against it. Therefore, the changes made to the draft are necessary as much as possible. The Senate project, which changes this provision, is expected by the entire medical community. Young doctors protest, older doctors protest, and my amazement, the doctor's amazement after 45 years of work, there are no limits. How can you do something like this in such difficult times, instead of enjoying medical personnel, raising their salaries, almost carrying them on your hands? Who will treat you if medical personnel are pulled out of such cannons? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u3	Thank you very much, Professor. Next in order is Senator Barbara Małecka-Libera. [[Voice from the room: Beata.]] Beata, I'm sorry. That's because I looked at Senator Zdrojewska and Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I take the floor as an applicant, but also as a person who fundamentally disagrees with this provision, with the article. 37a criminal code. We have taken a legislative initiative to amend this article, which, as an amendment, has been inserted into the so-called. a shielding shield for entrepreneurs affected by COVID. So it wasn't in the context of a discussion on the criminal code, but in the context of a cover-up. And this is really a really bad place when it comes to proceding these kinds of amendments. The change we are proposing is, above all, the restoration of the possibility for the courts, the justice system, to decide on the application of various forms of penalties. From the fine to the temporary limitation of liberty to the total imprisonment. It cannot be that, in its independence, the court cannot benefit from a wide range of penalties, but can only apply a very restrictive sentence of imprisonment. Leaving freedom is Let's just call it Putting people in prison. It is not our agreement that the court in its independence should not be able to benefit from various forms of punishment. Penalty is the harshest, most restrictive punishment, it undoubtedly affects the physical and mental health, but also affects the psyche of man and his personality. Sometimes it even brings about irreversible changes. I ask that we also remember that we are talking about a man who, in an unintentional manner, has committed a crime. What crimes are we talking about here? About involuntary manslaughter, about involuntary harm to health, or about involuntary decision or opinion. In view of this situation, the court must be able to apply the so-called. Liberty penalties, therefore, which are much milder than imprisonment. These involuntary acts I am talking about relate to the actions of a very large group of people. They concern e.g. a man who involuntaryly causes a car accident. But they also involve a very wide range of doctors, medical professionals, including the most doctors. And they will be the ones most affected by the provision introduced in the Penal Code. Medicine, ladies and gentlemen, is art, it is knowledge, but it is also daily making very difficult decisions in the fight for life and human health. Because each of the doctors, each of the medical staff, making such terribly difficult, sometimes dramatic decisions, does it in good faith: to save people's lives Or to restore man's health. That's why I think that after this change, medical workers, doctors, will have a lot of difficulty making difficult decisions, they will just be afraid of restrictive laws, which will cause you to make an unintentional mistake. I would like to stress: an involuntary error Unfortunately, they will be deprived of their freedom. It's a terrible law, it's an inhumane law! Therefore, we cannot agree to this type of action, especially in a special age, namely in an epidemic era, when doctors and all medical personnel, including lifeguards, nurses, diagnostics, fight every day to ensure that our lives, human lives, are not at risk. And now surgery, hospital emergency services or transplantology will be in direct danger, because doctors will be afraid to make difficult, risky decisions, they will be afraid to act on these wards and make difficult decisions. There will also be no development of medicine Because medical development is also an unpopular, very difficult decision. None of the doctors will want to make such decisions, feeling pressure or such repression, that it may end in imprisonment. During the discussion, there was an argument here, which I would also like to quote, namely that our proposal for an amendment is motivated by fear. Literally, that's how it's written here. I would like to say that this project is not motivated by fear, but is primarily dictated by deep trust in the courts. I believe that judges, when they pass judgments and make decisions about the amount of punishment, can face this task. We have full confidence in them, and that is why we bring this project. One more word at the end. I would like to say, in response to the charge which has been brought to me here and which has sounded very strongly that I am not a lobbyist in the medical world, but I support all those who, under very difficult conditions, make very difficult decisions to save another person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor will speak. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, while continuing with my previous speaker, Madam President, I will say this: well, this may sound very naive, but the patient and doctor are on the same side, so that talking about lobbyists, lobbying for medical or medical professionals, especially in the age of COVID and in the times of such hard work, both on the front line and in the SORs, reception chambers, is absolutely wrongly seen. This is misconstrued by the medical community, but not only, because of the bill, art. 37a criminal code, hits all medical personnel. This revision of the article introduced within the anti-crisis shield concerns inter alia. penalties for offences that may be committed by doctors, nurses in connection with their occupation, such as involuntary manslaughter or serious injury to health. The anti-crisis shield tightened the criminal policy by secretly changing this article. Another so-called. The shields contain regulations that have nothing to do with the coronavirus, the crisis or the help of anyone. This time, this change means a drastic reduction in the application of milder penalties by courts than prison, as the President said. The pursuit of sending people to prisons as often as possible is a policy of punishing alive taken from the 19th century, not the current European standards. The next anti-crisis shields are beginning to be such a poisonous fruit, a trick of power directed at citizens, and this time specifically at doctors, medical workers, and, by the way, in patients, because it is us, as the senator said earlier, who will be afraid to make quick, accurate decisions, sometimes face-to-face with a severely ill patient. I think that, especially in the age of COVID, this is a hit on our medical community. I, while guarding the education of young medical professionals, interns, residents, hospitals, public hospitals, can say that I have really achieved not only a personal success over the past few years in ensuring that young people work in hospitals, absolutely not tempting them with good wages, but with a good atmosphere, fighting for the well-being of the patient, wanting to help, taking care of what we swore in the Hippocratic oath... It's not naive, it's true. And that's the thanks we got. That is why I believe that this is a gateway to abuse, that this is a question of the whole policy of punishing and taking away the powers of choice between limitation, imprisonment and fine, not only for medical workers, but also for all Poles. I am pleased that a legislative, legislative initiative is being taken to change this absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, such a record will bring us unfettered losses among medical personnel, doctors, nurses, paramedics. So that I think this is a very unhappily, very destructive record of our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Moravian-Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u8	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! For some time now, we have seen a very marked increase in the oppression of the criminal code, which is in general contrary to all the principles that previously existed and which prevail in the civilized world, because modern criminal codes, however, assume the primacy of the sentences of liberty over imprisonment, especially when it concerns involuntary crimes, i.e. offences. This is a very, very dangerous trend. It is important to remember that the story of this article. 37a in its original form dates back to 2015, when it is precisely for the purpose of primacy of the sentences of liberty for such offences that a provision has been introduced on the basis of which, if the law provides for a sentence of imprisonment of not more than 8 years, a fine or a sentence of limitation of liberty may be imposed instead of a sentence of imprisonment. And, of course, the court had full access to these criminal measures. Because very often, ladies and gentlemen, it happens... And I know that from my practice as a lawyer, but a long time ago. Any one of you, which I stress, without even being a doctor, can cause man's death unintentionally. Each of you can participate in such an event that someone will die, and you will be assigned wine. And now imagine a situation when you will be responsible for this crime. Each of you could be in such a situation that you would simply go to prison. Because criminal law and the oppression of criminal law or the desire to increase the oppression of criminal law are very easy to talk about from parliamentary benches, even from senators' benches, very easy to speak from behind a ministerial desk. I have repeatedly learned during the speeches of the members of our government or representatives of the Ministry of Justice that it is very easy to say: what does it matter if someone is going to be in prison as much or so? Yeah, it does. For this man who is deprived of freedom, every day is of great importance. And the weird thing is that this provision has now been amended, on 19 June 2020, on the occasion of the Act on bank loan interest subsidies due to the outbreak of the outbreak, the threat of COVID-19. What is the issue of the interest rate on bank loans with the tightening of criminal law? What's his connection? And let me remind you that there was a chance, because the Senate then deleted this rule... Unfortunately, in the Seym, this provision was restored. We also tried in the previous bill, which was here last week under investigation. We're the left. - to re-establish the original wording of this provision. This amendment did not go through either. But I fully support this current proposal because the provision that was just introduced by the Law of 19 June 2020 is an internally contradictory provision and will therefore be an ineffective provision. This provision I'll remind you of that, too, although perhaps most of you do not know, because a person who is not a lawyer cannot know that. It's the same as the article. 54 of the 1969 Peerel Penal Code And let's see if we're going this way. Let me remind you of the crimes in the section of the special criminal code that can be judged in this way. Let's take art. 155 criminal code, manslaughter. I've told you this before. You don't even realize how often this recipe is judged by very decent and good people, e.g. After an ordinary traffic accident, which can happen to any of us who drive a car. Art. 156 §2 - Involuntaryly causing serious injury to health. This is a recipe from which very often Not mostly, but very often. The doctors are responding. This is very often the case in situations where the patient simply could not be saved when he survived, but caused severe health damage, e.g. during surgery, when it suddenly turned out that the doctor could only make one decision, not another. Well, then a bunch of experts gather around and decide that he could have done something completely different. I know from my professional experience that it's not that simple. The next provision, which is precisely the most common basis for the criminal liability of doctors, i.e. art. 160 §1 and §2, is the risk of loss of life or serious injury to health. Ladies and gentlemen, doctors are very often charged with this provision when, for example, they do. They gave a drug like it was at the hospital's disposal, and you could give a medicine that was more effective, which the hospital didn't have. Personally, I've had four of these medical cases, so I know what I'm talking about, too. For 3 years, the doctor must explain in court that at a given place, at a given time, at a given time, e.g. In the middle of the night, he had only such a drug, only such a remedy, and he absolutely did not have the opportunity to administer another medicine. Of course, a patient who gets better sometimes does it to his family. He later tries to prove that if everything was secured, perhaps his condition would be better. Another recipe, very dangerous, is an article. 233 §4a of the Criminal Code, i.e. the involuntary drawing up of a false expert opinion in criminal or civil proceedings. For me, it is rather unhappy to make a false opinion, but it can be imagined. The experts are wrong, too, and we have seen dozens of these misconceptions. And now let us consider whether such a crime should be punished by imprisonment by an expert. In conclusion, I'll say one thing. I'm afraid that if you do this to tighten up the rules and threaten us with a prison sentence, many patients will not receive the kind of help they require from a doctor to take risks. If the procedure presents a significant risk to the doctor, but also gives a better chance of saving or improving the patient's health than a less risky procedure, it is easy to answer the question of which procedure will be used. And one more thing. I think each of you is a driver. You must realize that at any time any one of you can be judged by such a provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u9	Thank you very much, Marshal. You will speak, Senator Necessary. The senator will speak remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Responsibility is included in the medical profession, is included in the profession of doctor, and no one can release himself from this responsibility. It's not like doctors are a bunch of people without consciences who don't want to be responsible for their actions, who if they do something wrong, they don't feel it. etc. Do they really need to be put in prison to make the justice system feel satisfied? It's a tough profession, demanding tough decisions. And we often have some knowledge at the time of taking them, and after they have taken them, we have other knowledge. That's just the way it is. Every doctor, every physician does what he thinks is appropriate at the moment. It's actually pretty weird to tighten up punishments. In more medically developed countries, as Western countries have been with us for some time There is a term for it. medical events, that is, a situation where something bad happened in the hospital or during patient care. And it's a medical event where there's no guilt. It happened, something bad really happened, and the patient should be made up for it. In our country, this system is perverted. This is often a step towards a court hearing, in order to obtain documentation, to obtain a justification for a court case. And it's perverted by people who act on behalf of patients and hospitals who defend themselves, trying not to make them believe that these events really happened. So that we could work on it, to help patients get some satisfaction more quickly, some compensation, for example. We're dealing with a medical event instead of seeing the guilt of a given doctor, nurse or paramedic. What if there are different opinions of experts? It often happens that there is a court hearing, the expert grants the right to the injured person, and then there is an appeal, and then there are other expert opinions. Maybe something else came out, there's some extra knowledge, which is why the new opinion is completely different. And one of them will, in guesses, be false, and the expert will be punished. Who's gonna be the expert then? What's it gonna look like? We have no answer here. And the most important thing that has already been raised here in the case of amendments in other situations. Indeed, what will happen if the COVID epidemic and flu are combined, what will happen to us in two or three months? How do the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health work together when the Ministry of Health bets on teleports and they're burdened with a mistake because they have to be? It cannot be that if 100 patients give their family doctor telephone advice, they will randomly choose: this one has the flu, this one has the COVID. It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. And if it does, there will be mistakes. If we are to defend ourselves against the epidemic by teleports, we cannot impose such a tightening of penalties at the same time. It's either one or the other. If we have few doctors and we hold them responsible for the health of an excessive number of patients, we cannot punish them unduly. Well, there's no logic in all this. We bring this to a medical topic, medical topics, but actually, in other professions, in other situations also this responsibility does not know why it should be tightened. I am very much in favour of this bill. At the same time, I hope that it will not go into the seym freezer for years or even longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u11	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej, remotely, for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't supposed to speak. I have been provoked by some marshals to speak in this regard. I would like to say that the left has tabled such an amendment, but it would also be worth to add that unfortunately it was going beyond the scope of the contested law, so it could not be procedated. In addition, it has also been reported in such a situation that there has already been an initiative by the Civic Coalition for 3 weeks. I think that if we're already talking about these issues, it would be worth talking about. Since I have already spoken, I would like to draw the attention of all of you to such a coincidence that in an absolutely reprehensible manner which is incompatible with any wise way of proceding very serious topics and issues of criminal law, this change has been introduced by the Ministry of Justice, as a few people have rightly said earlier, to a completely unrelated subject of the law, and has been prosecuted with the omission of a committee which should deal with such an input. Therefore, this did not go through any grammar that can speak about the philosophy of criminal law and what we want to achieve in the criminal process. This has been investigated only by people who are not involved in law and criminal law at all. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing. Almost at the same time as it was sharpened... It has been rightly said here, and it has been said several times that this applies to each of us, it simply applies to all drivers. But it also applies to doctors. In a situation as complicated as we are today, it raises up, tightens up the possible responsibility of doctors and involves the hands of a court which, under such a law, cannot make decisions freely. This is a step backwards when it comes to the philosophy of law. In addition, the responsibility of officials, most often of the same ministry, the Ministry of Health, for all the mistakes made in ordering, in economic activities, in ordering equipment, is abolished. The collision of these 2 philosophies, that is, punishing people who sacrifice their lives to save others, and the complete exclusion from the law of officials, who make very often completely impossible and stupid economic decisions, as a result of which we do not have the care we deserve, best shows how unwise the drop-in in that COVID act was. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to draw your attention to another aspect of the legislative changes we are discussing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 37a of the Penal Code can be seen... it will have a significant impact on the sentence of the courts for a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment not exceeding eight years. These are among others. those offences which may be committed by doctors in relation to the risk of their tasks, including the involuntary drawing up of a false opinion by an expert or expert in criminal or civil proceedings. The problem of experts and experts' opinions is one of the fundamental problems of justice. Today, the courts often wait long, sometimes I know such things. It's not months, it's years. Isn't he responsible for a false opinion today? In the current state of law, an expert who presents an opinion that is not false, but is not developed in accordance with the principles of art and is, of course, wrong, may be liable on the basis of other provisions that do not criminalise the conduct of the expert directly. In certain situations, there may be spontaneous liability under Article. 239 of the criminal code when he is so expert constructs an opinion that it does not contain false content, but intentionally presents the content in a misleading way. Further, if the expert is a state officer, his responsibility under Article may be involved. 231 of the Penal Code, and where the person acting in a public capacity has accepted a personal benefit, property or their promise for incorrect drafting of the opinion, he or she will be liable under Article. 228 criminal code. The conduct of the expert may also exhaust the signs of the offence in Article. 234 of the Criminal Code A false accusation; or an article. 236 cover-up of the evidence of innocence. More: Art. 233 §4 of the Penal Code may remain in a real coincidence applicable both to the provision of Article. 235 - creating false evidence; as well as art. 236 cover-up of evidence of innocence; art. 239. Obstruction of criminal proceedings; Art. 231 of the Penal Code; and Article. 228 of the Penal Code when an expert who is a public officer has exceeded or failed to fulfil his or her duties, or if the expert is a public person and has accepted a property benefit or a promise thereof, in preparation of an opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for any additional regulations. More, it can be assumed in advance that the introduction of these regulations today, in this difficult situation of justice, where, as I say, experts draw up opinions, which are sometimes expected for months and years... Some of those who are preparing opinions today will give up their preparation in general. Make yourself aware of the situation. What expert will prepare an opinion that undermines the previous opinion of another expert doctor? The court will look at the opinion given by one expert, and it will clearly be contrary to common sense. Where will he find a second doctor who will prepare an opinion that undermines this expert's opinion? After all, this doctor, in preparing such an opinion, will feel that he will lead directly to the criminal responsibility of his colleague or his colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, prior adoption of these regulations or failure to adopt this amendment now... This will cause very far-reaching problems in the practical functioning of the justice system. Therefore, I would absolutely like to convince you that we should adopt as soon as possible amendments to the penal code removing this provision, which will lead to real, huge problems in the judicial functioning of the Polish courts. Of course, I am also convinced by these arguments by representatives of medical circles regarding what difficulties this regulation will cause in areas such as transplantology, oncology, modern teaching methods, which unfortunately always involve some risks. I therefore fully support the proposed amendment and hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u15	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the August agreements. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 180, and the report is published in print No 180 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the August agreements. The Commission held a discussion on 12 August at first reading and unanimously adopted the text of the draft resolution following several amendments. The resolution is important, because the present time falls on forty years of events that changed the history and shape of Poland, a significant part of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and, I think, the whole modern world. Let me remind you that in the summer of 1980, the communist authorities introduced increases in food prices, in particular meat and meat products. These increases have met with spontaneous strikes, which since the beginning of July have included increasingly new jobs and workplaces. I would like to remind you that it is Polmo, a bet in Sanoku, in Piaseczno, in Ursus in the first days of July. Since July 8, Lublin region, Świdnik, and in the following days strikes covered the entire region of Lublin 140 bets, 70,000 strikers. In addition to the economic demands, the first, shy yet, attempts were made to make demands about the need for free elections to the works councils. These strikes were already taking place in different locations in 20 voivodships of the then Poland, but I think that the fundamental breakthrough took place on 14 August, when the strike took place by Gdańsk Shipyard im. Lenina, then Shipyard im. The Parish commune, from 18 August the Warski shipyard in Szczecin, the Zamech company in Elbląg. And the waves of strikes were spreading more and more, all over Poland. Let me remind you just for the sake of order that the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard broke out in defence of Anna Valentynowicz's dismissal. In addition to the request for the return to work of Mrs Valentynowicz, there was also a demand to celebrate the murdered shipbuilders and economic demands in 1970. After these demands had been met, the shipbuilders decided, under pressure from the strikers and many people supporting the strike, that the strike would transform. Which is of great importance to the solidarity strike. Since 16 August, the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard has been a solidarity strike with all these workplaces in Pomerania and Poland, which have taken up protests. I'll read, ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution, but I have to talk about one important one, also from my personal point of view... Such reflection: last Friday, 14 August, in Gdansk on the elevation of the tenement building at ul. Sienkiewicz number 10 next to the plaque that commemorates my sleep. the brother, hung board, which says that in this building on 9 August 1980, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz presented the decision to Jerzy Borowczak, Lech Wałęsie and Bogdan Felski about the outbreak of the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard on 14 August. [[Applause]] I'm talking about it because there are a lot of heroes in August. Not all of them can be replaced. The millions of Poles who had the courage to stand up against the system, strike or support the strike in August and September throughout Poland... These people I should mention are tens, hundreds, but I am listing the main architect of the August strike and the postulates of the MKS during this strike, one of the main architects of the vocation to the life of the Free Trade Union. And the draft resolution, let me remind you, is the result of a consensus. And I thank all those who contributed to this resolution. 40 years ago, in the summer of 1980, there was a wave of workers protesting through Poland, which as a result forced the communist authorities of the Polish People's Republic to negotiate with the representatives of the strikers. More than 700 workplaces were represented in the Gdansk Inter-Boutique Strike Committee itself, but more MKS were created throughout the country. The protesters, while maintaining communication in the negotiations, led to the signing of the August agreements, and the power, seeing the power of the public protests, finally agreed to concessions. The most important of the 21 signed postulates were certainly those referring to the creation of free, independent trade unions, the reduction of censorship and the release of political prisoners. 31 August 1980 The Inter-Building Strajkov Committee and the Government delegation signed an agreement concluding the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard. Lenin. There were memorable words from the yard gate said by the leader of the Lech Wałęsa strike: "We finally have independent, self-governing trade unions. Separate agreements were signed by government delegations with MKS in Szczecin (30 August) and MKS in Jastrzębie-Zdrój (3 September). As a result of the August agreements on 17 September 1980, delegates established in different regions of the new trade union structures decided to form one national union The Independent Self-Professional Union of Solidarity. It was registered on 10 November 1980. It was the first ever communist country independent of the authorities and at the same time a legitimate organization. "Solidarity was born of deep concern for man and a sense of great responsibility for the common good. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the August agreements, appreciating the efforts of people who, in a non-sovereign and oppressive country, fought for the restoration of civil and labour rights, pay tribute to those who by their attitude and commitment led to the victory of the social movement in a peaceful revolution against the communist system of power in the Polish People's Republic. Let this crucial moment in the history of Poland, Europe and even the world, highlighting interhuman and social solidarity, remain in our memory. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u17	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, i.e. the same person. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? If not, I'm opening the discussion. And I would like to inform you that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski signed up for the discussion. Are you Senator Jan Maria Jackowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u18	Yes, I am. I am, I am, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Am I being heard right now? [[You're audible and visible.]] Oh, great. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again we adopt a draft resolution on commemoration of August events, which are the foundation of democratic changes in Poland after 1989. It is worth mentioning in this context that it was a whole series of events that took place. The August events took place in the whole series of independence events, which began much earlier in June 1956, I am thinking here about March 1968, here I am thinking about the tragic events of December 1970, here I am thinking about events in Radom and other cities in 1976. All these events showed that the next generations of Poles were not dominated by communist ideology, they did not allow themselves to be deprived of their full freedom and civil rights. If you look from this point of view, then a certain crowning of all these efforts was August 1980. It was preceded by another very important event. Here I am thinking about 16 October 1978, i.e. the choice of cards. Charles Wojtyla on Pope John Paul II, this first historical pilgrimage of today's saint to his homeland and famous words, uttered on June 2, 1979, on the then Victory Square, today's Piłsudski Square in Warsaw, let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth, this land. The events of August 1980 are unprecedented... Very rarely in history have systems of authoritarian or totalitarian nature been transformed as a result of peaceful changes and patient, long-term work of subsequent generations of citizens and leaders of intelligence who have been involved in these activities. I would like to thank the initiators of this resolution. I would also like to draw attention to what I have already had the opportunity to pay attention to in the Senate. As a person who is a historian, but also a direct witness to the events of August 1980 in Szczecin... I went to the shipyard almost every day, called the shipyard them. Adolf Warski, where was the strike committee and the bureau of this committee, where negotiations were ongoing with representatives of the communist authorities. And I'd like to remind you It is contained in the text of the resolution That the first historical agreements were signed in Szczecin on Saturday 30 August 1980. That's one thing. Secondly, among the 36 postulates that were then signed, the first postulate was the creation of an independent trade union. You can see that despite the difficulty in communicating... At that time there were restrictions on travel, maintaining communication between different cities was not easy. You could say the situation was special. I remember how at the station in Szczecin or at the main points of the city there were increased patrols of the Civic Militia and other uniform services. The atmosphere was, I'd say, subdued. There was a shortage of supplies in the stores. The situation was quite, you can say, dramatic, because it was not known how all this would end, whether the negotiations would end positively, i.e. There'll be an agreement, or there'll be some kind of confrontation. Especially on the Coast, both in Tricity and in Szczecin... The inhabitants of these two agglomerations remembered perfectly the tragic events of December 1970 when the communist authorities used weapons against the helpless workers and inhabitants of these cities. I think, for historical clarity, it is worth noting that, yes, the Gdansk agreements of 31 August have passed into history, which are as if the most recorded in the public consciousness, but there have also been other agreements. I am thinking here not only about Szczecin, but also about the Hawk, I am thinking about agreements in the Lower Moustrichs and about the emergence of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. It was a whole series of events. Earlier, in July, there were strikes by the railwaymen of the Lublin node. It was a whole series of events which led to the opening of the perspective of the democratization of Poland. All this was tragically interrupted by the introduction of martial law on 13 December. To pay tribute to the heroes of those days, the fathers of our independence and democracy, it is worth remembering all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Show me the remote screen. Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the August agreements. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. The text of the Act is contained in print No 191 and the report of the Commission In print No 191 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee at today's meeting on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 14 August 2020 amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties decided that it recommended to the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The draft resolution reads as follows: The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending certain laws on the remuneration of persons exercising public functions and on the amendment of the Law on political parties. The Senate, after considering the Law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 14 August 2020 amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties, rejects that law. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee today, during the examination of a single point on this law, has heard the opinion of the representative of the Legislative Office, Ms Katarzyna Konieczko, who has made oral legislative comments to the bill, paying attention to the lack of consultation, the absence of an opinion of representatives of the local government, the lack of views of interested parties, including the opinion of the government. After listening to us, the legislator and in the absence of the possibility to ask questions to the invited representative, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, I, as chairman of the committee and rapporteur in one person, submitted a motion for rejection of the bill and, at the same time, a formal motion for voting without discussing this proposal, which met with the opposition of Senator Karczewski. As a result of the vote: 6 votes against, 4 against The committee decided to proceed to the vote on the motion to reject the law. Similar votes cast by 6 senators in favour, 4 against and no one abstained. The committee decided to reject the law. The committee was adjourned at this meeting. There was no further debate. The proposal was as far as it could go, so after his vote, the committee concluded its deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u21	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Morawska-Stanecka have submitted legislative proposals to the minutes. Let me see those conclusions. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Senator Martynowski filed a motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Marshal Morawska-Stanecka filed a motion to reject the bill. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Because legislative proposals have been submitted in writing Senator Martynowski and Marshal Moravian-Stanecka, by the way, will have to convene a re-meeting of the committee. The discussion is closed. The committee meeting will take place 5 minutes after the adjournment is announced. It's 18.12. We're adjourned until 6:45 p.m. The committee meeting will be held in Room 182. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 12 to 18 minutes 56]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. A meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 191 Z. And we've already done that. Now I ask the committee rapporteur, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee has examined the proposals made during the debate today on the Law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt the proposal contained in point I, the proposal of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and Senator Moravian-Stanecka, supported by the committee, i.e. the motion to reject the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u23	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicant want to speak again? I would remind you that you have been requested by the senator, Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck and Senator Marek Martynowski. Mrs. Senator, Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u24	I'll take the floor, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. [[There you go.]] Once again, I would like to justify my position. I believe that the adoption, above all, in the manner in which it took place in the Sejm This law cannot take place because our citizens in the situation of COVID and the economic situation in which... In fact, we do not know what the extent of the crisis is going to be. We do not know exactly what the state budget is. We don't know what the state of public finances is. Therefore, we cannot take responsible decisions on the remuneration of the most important people in the country when our citizens, our voters, entrepreneurs, officials lose their jobs. I think that the fact that this bill was even in the Seym at the time caused, however, the failure to listen to the voters' voices... And the situation following the adoption of this law, that is, the public's response to how First of all, without debate, without discussion, without considering the whole situation, it shows very clearly that our society does not think that we can make such decisions in such a situation. I would also like to address the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, who were the initiators... [[I want you to address your boss...]] ...who were the initiators of this bill, so that this social voice, the voice of our voters, the voice of society, however, would be taken into account. Our citizens fear, fear for their future, fear what the situation will look like after the second wave of COVID. Please note that the number of infections continues to decrease, that the number of infections with the coronavirus continues to increase. We don't know how long hospitals will be able to handle this situation. We do not know how long it will be possible for all companies in which these infections may occur to endure it. Of course, at some point we should have a substantive discussion about the pay of the most important people in the country, but the discussion and decision-making on this issue, even the most justified from the point of view of people who manage the state, must be correlated both with the economic situation of the country and with the situation of our citizens. And now our citizens are not sure about the future. If we are talking about a decline in gross domestic product, if we are constantly talking about the fact that the economies of Western European countries, especially the economy of Germany, on which we are heavily dependent, will go down, then we cannot just think about our wages. We need to think about the fact that, in the days of Coronavirus and the pandemic crisis, we need to show basic solidarity with our citizens. And that is why I applied for the rejection of this law in its entirety. I did it because I think it would be immoral to accept it at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Martynowski want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u26	Yes, after that speech, your marshal, I would like to take the floor and remind you of the Marshal's meeting of the Senior Convention, which took place on Thursday. I'd like to remind you exactly. That's when you said to adopt the bill without discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u27	Thank you very much. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ad vocem, Mr. Marshal, please ad vocem...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u28	I'll say this: on Thursday we didn't know the bill. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u29	This is not a discussion, ladies and gentlemen. Those were the senators' voices. The discussion was closed before recess. We'll proceed with the vote. May I have your attention, please? First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 48 votes against, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and on the amendment of the Law on political parties, a resolution on rejection. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Juvenile Procedure Act. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 90 and the committee's report In print No 90 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill is the implementation of the petition submitted to the Senate by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. The Foundation asks the Senate Marshal to take the Senate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I have your attention, please? Mr. Senator, continue.]] The Foundation invites the Senate Marshal to take a legislative initiative to amend the article. 27 Law of 26 October 1982 on juvenile proceedings governing the placing of a minor in a shelter. The Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights motivates the need to petition the guidelines formulated by the European Court of Human Rights in Grabowski's judgment against Poland. The draft law provides for the addition of a provision requiring the court to periodically review the validity of a minor's stay in a hostel every 3 months, even after the case has been referred to the hearing, as well as an obligation to issue a separate provision to extend his stay in a youth hostel, stating the reasons, including an indication of the circumstances in which such a decision has been given, even after the case has been referred to the court. The decision to extend the stay at the hostel shall be subject to a complaint. It should be noted that the draft law was widely consulted and that all the opinions on the draft law were positive. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at their joint meeting endorsed the draft law unanimously and requested its adoption. I would like to remind the senators that this project we have already adopted in the previous term and it has been addressed to the Sejm, but the end of the term of office had to be re-launched. So, as in the operative part, I ask the senators to accept this bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u31	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Robert Mammothov to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft submitted? Who is it? [[Voice from the room: Minister Romanowski.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: Government positively...]] Wait a minute. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Would Minister Romanowski like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: Yes.]] If he wants to, you're welcome to come here. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Council of Ministers welcomes the draft submitted. We're not commenting. The project is the execution of the ECHR ruling in the Grabowski case against Poland. The regulations contained therein fully implement the recommendations set out by the European Court of Human Rights. The project prevents shortcomings in Polish legal regulations, as well as in the practice of courts, precisely in the form of an automatic extension of the stay in the youth shelter, while the absence of a separate decision, the absence of a specific period for which deprivation of liberty occurs and consequently the inability to challenge such a decision. These regulations are in line with the regulations that have been prepared in the framework of the draft Juvenile Law. She was also the subject of the proceedings of the High House, the parliament of the previous term of office, but as a result of discounting the work has not been completed. Currently, the work is at the stage of the government's programming team. However, both these regulations and those presented in the draft juvenile law fully implement the ECHR ruling, and the Council of Ministers therefore fully supports the proposed proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u33	At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the government representative present at the meeting on the agenda. Senator Mammy, this is Senator Mammy. Minister, unfortunately, I would ask you back because there's a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u34	I have such a heartfelt request for you to explain. 'Cause there were doubts in the committee. What's the difference between a penitentiary and a hostel? Mr. Marshal asked me that, too. I'd like to ask you that. [[But I do.]] I'd like you to explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u35	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u36	As far as hostels are concerned, we have 14 shelters, 4 of which are independent, and the other 10 are connected to the correction facilities. The shelters are just used for temporary deprivation of liberty... [[Sort of like an investigator's arrest...]] Well, if I can use a little colloquial comparison, there's actually a difference here between an investigation and a penitentiary, but it's for minors.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u37	Minister, I have a question for you, too. You said 14 shelters are connected to the penitentiary... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: 10, 10.]] Oh, 10. Good. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: In total there are 14, but 4 are independent and 10 are connected...]] Good. Then tell me: are those sent to the shelters with those who are after the verdict? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: Well, I don't know the details...]] Are they staying together or is it separated somehow?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u38	There's a separate regime, of course... [[I understand, but do they stay together?]] They're in one... [[In one...]] ...in one building, yes. [[In the same room?]] No, no, of course these are separate rooms.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u39	Separate. That's what I meant, are they separated from each other, because some of them can be corrupted young people and others can't yet. I met with this problem once. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: Thank you very much.]] [[Can I have another one, Mr. Marshal?]] Oh, there's still... There you go, Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u40	Minister, I have a question for you. After leaving the penitentiary, an adult, once a juvenile criminal, can choose either two ways or a path of virtue or a way back to crime. Are there any analyses that tell you what the level of recidivism is in the case of juvenile delinquents who are imprisoned in correctional facilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u41	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u42	Yes, there's this year's analysis of the Justice Institute; I'm sending the senator back to the Institute's website. As far as I can remember, as far as penitentiary is concerned, the level of return to crime is 52%. It is now lower, earlier research by the Supreme Audit Chamber, probably from 2014, talking about a return rate of 58%. But in our opinion, it's still a big level. As regards the return to juvenile delinquency in general, i.e. not only those from the correction facilities, but also from the MOWs, it is shaped at the level of approx. 47 or 48% ...I'm sorry, at 44%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u43	Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd still ask the Minister... You explained what shelters are, what penitentiary bets are. I have a question: do school and education centres fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u45	No. As far as school and education centres are concerned, they fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Education. So that only the penitentiaries and hostels remain in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions... Oh, she's willing. Senator Lover. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the Minister if, in connection with the numbers you just quoted... They're not encouraging... Honestly, they're scary, over 50%. The juveniles are back on the road to crime. Does the Ministry therefore implement any new rehabilitation programs? What place in your thinking does rehabilitation take place at all? How much money do we spend on this? I'm not asking about the money right now, I'm asking about the money. I'm asking about the order. These are the costs. Are they enough? Do people who are employed in these shelters and correctional homes have pedagogical competence? How can you assume that the new rehabilitation programmes for young people will be effective? Did you learn from this and are there corrective programmes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u48	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u49	Yes, of course, we are constantly trying to improve our repair programs, Mrs. Senator. As far as data is concerned, indeed, the 52% this is a lot, but I would like to stress that, however, we are dealing with the downward trend of return when it comes to the correctional bets. So it seems that there is, however, progress, although of course you would always want it to be bigger. As far as costs are concerned, I am unfortunately not directly supervising this area, and I am therefore unable to provide very specific information. However, we all know, because this is often discussed in the public domain, that the funds for the penitentiary are very large in relation to the number of minors in them. Therefore, there is absolutely no problem that educators, those employed in these correctional establishments, have too many pupils underneath each other. Honestly, it's exactly the opposite, and we're dealing with this kind of problem. Thus, in this context, minors who are imprisoned in correctional facilities have sufficient, very good care of competent educators. I think it's worth paying attention... If we look at the return to the crime at the Correctional Facility, we'll see that it's at 52%. And when it comes to new cases, it's about 38%. It simply follows, I would say, from the nature of the people who go into these units. Juveniles who are actually the most corrupt, who have often committed the most serious acts prohibited, are going to the penitentiary, and that is why, of course, this return there is very high.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u50	Thank you, Minister. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u51	Minister, you probably remember our discussion a few months ago about the Istanbul Convention. The Convention makes it clear that it is appropriate to educate against violence. Please tell me whether an analysis is being carried out on what part of young people imprisoned in correctional and youth centres are people from violent families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u52	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u53	Unfortunately, I can't answer that question in detail now, Senator, because I don't directly supervise it. As far as the institutions are concerned, and especially the MOWs, this remains outside the competence of the Minister of Justice. However, I can say that this aspect is of course taken into account in the research of the Institute of Justice. Indeed, the origin of the environments where violence and other forms of crime are involved is, of course, significant as regards the impact on the criminalisation of minors. That's undoubtedly true. Therefore, any action, including the Ministry of Justice, is aimed precisely at supporting these environments and countering such, if any, pathological behaviour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u54	Thank you, Minister. Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u55	This bill of the Senate is being considered, as I said earlier, by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. The main objective of the project is that young people who are waiting for sentences in shelters do not stay there forever. Today, it is often the case that when the trial begins, a young man may even be there for a few years in exceptional circumstances. The project assumes that young people are to be treated as adults are treated in arrests for a month, the court convicts, and if the trial does not start at that time, the case must be re-examined and the young man's stay should be court-martialed. The European Court of Human Rights stated that as it is, it cannot be. We have applied this, and that is why we are changing the rules. That's all I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u56	Thank you, Senator. It was an explanation. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, senators Alexander Sweed, Mariusz Gromko and Rafał Mamotkow... [[Voice from the room: Robert.]] Sorry, Robert Mammets, of course. ...put their speeches on the record. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. The text of the Act is contained in print No 189 and the report of the Commission In print No 189 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance has examined the Act amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census... [[Mr. Senator, closer to the microphone.]] You can't get any closer. [[It's okay now. It wasn't right before.]] ...Laws on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. At first, I would like to say that the Committee on Budgets and Finance recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments, although it was not obvious from the beginning. The Act was presented by the President of the Central Statistical Office. The Act allows statistical surveys to be carried out under conditions of epidemic risk. The law, which is important and what is a certain novel, presents new census methods, namely the method of internet census carried out through an interactive application, the method of direct interview carried out by the census accountant and finally the method of telephone interview carried out by the census accountant. Following the speech of the President, you spoke with a representative of the Legislative Office, who made her comments. These comments were perhaps not very important, but one of them, concerning the timetable for the bill, was quite important. Well, the bill was adopted by the Sejm on Friday, 14 August, the Senate will most likely accept it on 18 August, and it must be effective on 1 September, because the agricultural census will begin on 1 September. And that's a problem, because this work schedule actually... Well, there's no "vacatio legis" in here. There is little time left for the President of the Republic to sign this bill. Well, if some of the comments that were made during the work were taken over as amendments, as proposals for amendments, and then adopted by the High Senate, this would only lead to an extension of the work on this law, and then there would actually be a problem of the kind that the agricultural census would have to start according to the existing rules, without taking into account these possibilities of statistical surveys under conditions of epidemic danger. However, the Commission found that these doubts were so irrelevant that it was worth adopting a law without amendments. During the discussion, the cost of these censuses was also discussed. It turns out that the agricultural census will cost us 243 million PLN and the population and housing census will cost us 386 million PLN. It's so important that these are the same costs as they were 10 years ago. The last censuses were made 10 years ago and those costs were identical. During the discussion, there was also a question as to whether this census could not be cancelled under epidemic conditions. Well, there's a strong answer here, that's what these new methods are for, that's why they're remotely written, so that they don't translate it, especially since these statistics will be a good basis for further research, including those related to the coronavirus. After the discussion, the vote was held. As I said at the beginning, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. In the hall we welcome the president of the CSO, Mr. Dominic Rozkrut. Would the President like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It'll be short. I would just like to say that the proposed changes concern the flexibility of the methods of implementation of the inventories. Both agriculture and the general population In the conditions of the current epidemic. As it has been said, we did not want to cancel these censuses. They are carried out around the same time in all countries and form the basis for all other statistical surveys that are carried out in public statistics systems. This results in their high weight. We would like to prepare very well for these current conditions, so we must make this methodological instrumentary more flexible, which we use to obtain information. In particular, this is about moving away from such embarrassing assumptions that we originally adopted, writing down in the bill that we divide the raiders into field and telephone. Now we want to create such an opportunity to freely, in the context of the current situation, as if to allocate these accountants to the methods for which the situation allows application. In fact, there are amendments on which I ask you to accept.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have a specific question about the census. I'm gonna do it again. I'm gonna ask you again. That's what I asked you before, but there was no answer, I'd call it clear. Well, most of the information that we receive in the census is, as the name suggests, information, that is, they talk about the current state. But some of this information, particularly about nationalities and ethnicity, or ethnicity, is constitutional, which means that, on the basis of this data, certain groups of our society can acquire new rights, they can retain those that they have, but they can also lose the rights associated with the implementation of the National and Ethnic Minorities Act and the regional language. Mr President, will the information on ethnicity and nationality be complete in the sense that it will be a full trial in areas where ethnic minorities exist? It is mainly about Opolskie voivodship, part of Śląskie voivodship and Podlaskie voivodship. I ask because I am a senator from the Opole Voivodeship and there these data are not only important information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u62	Thank you very much. There you go. You may respond from your seat. [[President of the Central Statistical Office of Dominik Rozkrut: Yes?]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u63	High Senate! Mr. Senator! Of course, the assumption of the census is that we carry out it all over the population, which means we carry out a full study. Our instrumentarium in the background is quite advanced. We will, of course, be getting information in direct interviews, regardless of the channel... Interview impossible today, under epidemic conditions, direct interview, guy's a guy... There's gonna be a phone interview and an online self-writer that we're really hoping for. Of course, we will use various other sources, in particular administrative sources, which we will use for emputation, validation of data, so that actually the collection, which will be the resultant set, is called. a good statistical operation for future research. At the same time, he will provide you with the information you're asking for. Since as a basic method we propose the method of online self-written, it is important for all of us to call together the representatives of local communities to be willing to participate in the inventory via the online self-script, because it is he who will give these small local communities the opportunity to say: we are here, we have this and not other needs. This is a great opportunity to build a sense of belonging to our local environments. I am very appealing from this point of view to promote the idea of online writing as much as possible, because it is beneficial for all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. [[If you don't mind...]] Yes, please. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u65	I have an additional question for you. I used to be a Member, back in 2001 and 2005. The census was also organized in those years. It was probably in 2002, but I'm not sure. At that time, your predecessor introduced such a formula, or actually an instruction for census surveyors, which allowed for the inclusion in the heading of nationality not from a closed catalogue, but from any one that could be accepted by the person enrolled. The result was that in this way the President of that time, as it were, established the Silesian nationality, which formally does not exist in Polish law. The nationality is specified in the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and in the Regional Language. What's it gonna be like right now? Will the national catalogue be open or closed?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u66	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u67	The directory of nationality is consistent with the existing legal situation that we now have, which is that it is simply closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u68	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to ask you another question or not? [[No, it means that the etnia can be different, so to speak, configure, declare, but nationality is a clear concept. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Please inform me that there are no further questions. Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: There are questions.]] There you go. Senator Eve Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u69	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. Please tell us how the interviews will be conducted in those counties which are red or yellow because of the epidemic state at the moment. How will the interviews be conducted there, how will this be technically carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u70	I'm in a hurry to answer that. That is why these changes are so that we have great flexibility in the organisation of these studies. And as a rule, we rule out the possibility of conducting direct interviews in general during the outbreak. Now all statistical surveys are carried out in such a way that our surveyors use only the possibility of interviewing on phones. And so we are also planning in these coming days, and in the coming month we will certainly see how the situation will continue to develop. So that he'll be based only on internet autopsy and phone interviews. There will be no direct visits to households. And that's what these changes in the bill are for, so that we can keep an inventory in this way. 'Cause before that, I didn't anticipate such a difficult situation, well, no one thought of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u71	Senator, is there any more...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u72	So, as I understand it, the phone numbers will be shared with the employees, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u73	Yeah, yeah. Our census rankings will be provided with lists of household or agricultural phones, in the case of an agricultural census, to which they will call and carry out telephone interviews. That's how we do all the statistical surveys we're doing right now. Surveys that have traditionally been conducted by direct interview, now, under epidemic conditions, are carried out by telephone. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-17-senat-14-4.u74	Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to ask you a question? If not, thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And at this point, I'm running the recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 37]]
