ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u2	Mr. Marshal, I have a heartfelt request. There may be a few of us today, we should have done it yesterday, but a prominent social and political activist, Mr. Henryk Wujec, died on August 15th. I would like to ask you to honor Mr Henry Uncle's memory with a minute's silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord. [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] May he rest in eternal peace. [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u3	Thank you very much, senator, for remembering a great person. I would like to remind you that the proceedings take place both in a traditional manner and through means of distance communication. Ladies and gentlemen, located in the Senate building! Please check whether all of you have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting, and your senators participating in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Dear Senators! We proceed with the vote, which aims to establish only the list of senators currently taking part in the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. There are no ballots in room 217. Oh, one moment, gentlemen. [[Voice from the Chamber: State of Informatics, supposedly in room 217 voting cards are not activated. Make it right.]] [[The voice from the room: And are you sure...]] They don't work because it shows me that no one votes. We'll probably do that vote again in a minute, but we just have to clear it up. Dismissed until 9:10 p.m. Keep me posted on what's going on because he's gonna be guilty again. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 05 to 9 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. The communication with room 217 apparently exists, so please take your seats and proceed to the vote which, I remind you, is intended only to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. I'm asking you to give me any vote. Now I see it's working. To one person from the remote voter: please note whether the voice sending button has been pressed twice. Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 5]] I ask you to remember that immediately after the examination of the point that we are about to begin, there will be a vote on the laws and resolutions in question. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for the year 2019, together with Notes on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. The text of the information is provided in print No 100. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The committees took note of the information at the meeting on 9 September and informed the Marshal of the Senate. I would like to welcome Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, who is present at the Senate hearing. We immediately proceed to the process of the point. I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2019 together with Notes on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland. The year 2019 was the first full year for me to perform this honorable function and service for children. The Constitution and the first articles of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child are the basic tasks of the Ombudsman, which are to uphold the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution, the Conventions, in particular the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and other legal provisions. In this respect, as a spokesman, I am primarily guided by the welfare of the child and I take into account that his natural environment and the place of development are his family. The child is a person, a being from conception to 18 years of age. This aspect, how fundamental and important, unfortunately still raises doubts, and the reminder of this fundamental human right triggers attacks. As the spokesperson for the rights of the child, I have in particular As a result of this very open and wide catalog The child's right to life and health, to upbringing in the family, to decent social, living and learning conditions. The catalogue of children's rights is open, which means that it is shaped by our society, by our lives, by situations that happen, like now, in 2020, but also every year, at every time because of social, technical development, we shape, explain, often call them. As a spokesman, I take action to protect children from violence, cruelty, corruption, demoralization, exploitation, negligence and any other mistreatment. These words, these concepts, have their meanings known to us intuitively, but also ones that are regulated by law, and in each of these aspects as a spokesman, I am from standing by the rights of the child. I also pay particular attention to children with disabilities and to the promotion of children's rights. The Ombudsman's activities are clearly supported by the Ombudsman's Office. From technical and administrative information In 2019, I took steps to prepare a new seat for the Ombudsman's Office in line with current requirements and needs. In addition, in the field of business, I changed and adapted the statutes, regulations and all administrative activities of the office, since there were irregularities, for example in the field of public procurement, and it was necessary to prepare and adapt the internal rules to the applicable law. The activities of the Ombudsman and the structure of the office, the posting of workers to the various activities, are largely divided by the fundamental rights mentioned in the Act I was just talking about. Thus, family matters, matters of children and young people in court are dealt with in the office of the Family and Minor Affairs Team. These cases, new ones, were received in 2019 by the office of 1 thousand 956. From previous years there have been about 1 thousand 400, so there is a significant increase in the impact of cases. In the field of activity before family courts, because it is one of the most important powers of the Ombudsman in Poland, I have also changed the practice that has been applied so far in recent years. High Izbo, an estimated 80 to 100 cases per employee. The so-called cases. the Ombudsman's accession, i.e. the activity of the Ombudsman before the courts, was up to a maximum of 4,6. I have changed this practice because I know that the most difficult cases concerning children are those taking place before courts, and the Polish law system does not provide for a separate attorney, a child's lawyer, this lawyer protecting the rights of children is to be the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The practice currently in force in the office is that it is the employee who must convince me that for some reason we do not approach the case and only monitor it. The principle is to approach cases, to participate actively in them. Therefore, there was a significant increase in the number of these cases by accession, several hundred of them. Another department of the Ombudsman's activities, very linked to every other department I'm going to talk about, concerns the Child's Phone of Trust. This activity continues and I consider it very important and necessary. The Children's Trust Phone is a team of employees of my office, psychologists, educators, lawyers who keep answering phones, often anonymous, and allow children, parents, carers who call on various matters. This often allows you to react in a very crisis situation. What are we talking about? We're talking about the most difficult family issues, situations that sometimes lead to suicide attempts. Reports to the Children's Trust Phone were over 23,000 last year, of which more than 19,000 were cases where advice was given. Children and young people could talk, talk, often anonymously. Of these cases, an intervention was made at the office in the case of 312 cases. The topics that most frequently appeared in these discussions concerned social conditions, the right to science, protection against violence and family upbringing. The Children's Trust Phone Team is a team, one can say, an interdisciplinary team, which in everyday work supports other teams, often also in such a way that, as part of urgent intervention in various offices, institutions are trying to obtain appropriate information. A large branch of the activity of the Ombudsman is the activity of education and education of children. The Education and Education Team... New cases in 2019 were 2,000 115 cases conducted from previous years In less than 1 000 cases, there is therefore a significant increase in the number of cases. With regard to the nature of education and education issues affecting the Ombudsman, these were matters relating to the functioning of kindergartens, schools of all types, educational institutions, individual interventions concerning the functioning of crèches, care and education centres, youth educational centres, correction centres. A large branch of the educational and upbringing team, which results from entrusting the Ombudsman with the rights of the child with additional competences in recent years, i.e. active participation in any disciplinary proceedings concerning the teacher, the educator... That's why it's the number of cases. This growth began in 2019 after the change of the Teacher's Charter. Now every disciplinary action the curator informs the Ombudsman of the rights of the child and these cases are verified by us. They were carried out, like previous years, and I continue this practice. Control regarding the state of compliance with the rights of the child in the education system. They were in a slightly modified form, adapted, simplified The effects we discussed during the committee's deliberations are set out in detail in the report, in the information. Another very important, important branch of the Ombudsman's activity includes cases in the social and administrative affairs team. There are also social matters in question, i.e. living, children. Such cases were reported in 2019 1 thousand 62 and cases from previous years were 1 thousand 306. These matters concern... One-quarter of these cases concerned health protection. Further types of cases, further notices and requests related to social benefits, in particular educational benefits 500+, with the specifics of these cases changing this year, as complaints, individual cases concerned situations from the period when the benefit was granted from the second child and in the summer of 2019 the programme was extended to all children. In this respect there were general speeches, it was suggested to speed up the examination of appeals by parents, guardians. Okay. 20 cases are social matters of a different kind, concerning social benefits, non-monetary benefits. There's also a percentage of housing and child safety. As I said, there are new challenges every year that bring us life. Last year, there were, and that's what I want to record, dangerous events in school grounds, very violent crimes. There have been at least 2 events worth mentioning: the murder of a student by a student in Warsaw and the terrorist attack in quotes, an attack not as large as attacks in the United States, but with weapons and explosives in Kujawy. Here measures have been taken to prepare a programme to secure schools and education for students' safe behaviour in schools. There were also trade, consumer, property, cases concerning the participation of the Ombudsman in appeals against the child's disability and administrative matters. Another part of the Ombudsman's activities are matters involving foreigners' children and with an international aspect. It is also about Polish children living in other countries. The Group of International and Constitutional Affairs adopted 617 new cases last year. There were 173 cases in previous years. This statistics show how many problems our countrymen are causing different legal systems during the age of significant migration. Family disputes are most common on an international basis, the solution of which requires cooperation with our diplomatic services and often, if possible, also with ombudsman's rights in other countries in order to support the resolution of a given situation, a given case. In the team of international affairs we work not only on family matters, but also on very important matters of foreigners in Poland. It is enough to add that in this respect, the employees of the Ombudsman's Office have great success in the presence of judicial and administrative proceedings, with judgments that often allow families who have settled in Poland or are in centres for foreigners, obtain citizenship or a permanent residence card and stay in Poland. These issues often relate to the situation of many years and at the same time to very large families. I'm going to refer to this case, for example, when the deportation of the Chechen family was stopped, it seems to be eight children, at such a stage that the whole family was already on the plane. We've managed to stop it. Children were born in Poland and are Poles. You have to take utmost care to solve these kinds of cases. In conclusion, High Izbo, with regard to the administrative part of the Ombudsman's office... In recent years, the statutory powers of the Ombudsman have been developed, including the introduction of children's rights. the possibility of an emergency complaint, a cassation complaint or a criminal cassation. I brought 47 such extraordinary appeals last year. Not all of them were effective, but it is important to take care to present our voice, to present a view of the rights of the child. Each of these cases that have been presented can be said to concern most aspects of social life in Poland in total. It is my practice that each individual case from one that concerns the placing of a telephone mast near the school to the most complicated cases, whether judicial or caring, whether in the field of education or the protection of children at school It goes through and through influence, and at the signature by my hands, that I am familiar with each of these matters. The scopes I was talking about here were the basis not only for taking concrete action on these issues, but also for drawing conclusions of a general nature. They became the basis for 39 general speeches last year, from each of these ranges. The general statements are presented to the High House in information. In part, these speeches have proved effective, insofar as they were the basis for legislative changes in some areas, such as educational benefits or changes in criminal law protecting the rights of the child. Allow me to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the powers of the Ombudsman in Poland are the most extensive powers of attorneys in the world. Our Act on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, which now, recently, on 6 January 2020 celebrated the 20th anniversary, the 20th anniversary of existence, is given as an example of the functioning of an ombudsman institution in other countries. In the countries where the spokespersons are, as well as in the countries where the spokespersons are not. A country that has no children's rights is Germany, for example. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the form of my activity in 2019 in the field of individual cases was different from the previous form, that very often myself, personally, I took part in such cases individually. I even took part in court proceedings concerning children, those most difficult cases, the most... I don't say media. 'Cause I've often tried to keep the media from knowing for the sake of peace. But the most important ones. And it is important to me that the power of the Ombudsman's defence in cases before judicial institutions is real. And I'd like to hear it. Also to the institutions of justice, to the courts, to the prosecutors, but also to the aid institutions, the ILOS, GOPS, assistants, and to my participation, to be aware of the activity of the spokesman, even personal. It helps, it shows good directions, it often supports the pace of the child's case, because the children's cases are not cases concerning a dispute about some things, objects, a ton of cement that can wait. Children's matters must be dealt with immediately, even in the enforcement of judgments. Allow me to refer now to the point concerning my actions as an ombudsman on the promotion of the rights of the child. The year 2019 was the year I visited 17 schools, 10 kindergartens, several high schools, children's homes. Over 150 meetings were held in total. I was also, in cooperation with NGOs, at various conferences. The biggest meeting with young people was the annual rally of the Association of Scouts of the Republic of Poland in Rybaków near Olsztyn, where there were several thousand scouts. About 14,000 children and young people attended meetings with me. There were competitions, meetings, promotion of children's rights. I consider it a very important part of the activities and powers of the Ombudsman to be an opportunity to award the Honorary Badge as a Merit for the Protection of the Rights of the Child. The badge shall be awarded by the Ombudsman on the basis of a regulation of the President of the Republic. Last year, I granted this badge to 15 people. I'm asking the High House to allow me to read the names of these people. They deserve this because of their attitude, their activities in various aspects, because they are foster parents or people who remind them of their right to life, artistic activities or educational activities. The badge was awarded: Ms Danuta Kuczyńska, Mr Krzysztof Górzycki, Mrs Virginia Coda Nunziante, father of Fortunato di Note, Mr Tadeusz Smyczyński, Mrs Tisie Żawrocka-Kwiatkowska, Mrs Józef Kielak, sister of Zygmuncie Bogusławie Sikacka, Mr Szymon Bolik, Mrs Maria Jabłońska, Mrs Maria Frączek, Mr Łukasz Golc and Paul Golc, Association for the Development of Children, Youth and Families, Helpful Hand and, in December 2019, Mrs Wanda Semitawska. Each of these persons deserves the highest appreciation for their activities, often carried out throughout their lives, activities quiet, secretive, individual. But let me specifically mention Professor Tadeusz Smyczyński on the 20th anniversary of the Ombudsman's institution. The award was granted on the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and on the 40th anniversary of the preparation by your professor of the Model Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child last year celebrated 30 years, 40 years since the creation of the project, and Professor Tadeusz Smyczyński was one of its co-authors. Another very important element of the Ombudsman's activities in the field of the dissemination of children's rights is the granting of patronages and participation in various kinds of meetings and activities for children carried out by various organisations, institutions, schools or persons. Last year I gave 182 patrons to the Ombudsman. The Office of the Ombudsman must go with the spirit of time. This is why a new website has been created, which, I hope, clearly and at the same time, presents the activities of the Ombudsman. There are Twitter accounts on Facebook. This allows in many cases to communicate efficiently, but also to communicate with children and young people. In November 2019 as every year It's another good practice that I'm continuing to do, and there's been a celebration of the Polish Children's Rights Day, this time in Raciborz. This was the practice of my predecessors, and I continue to do so, that in the county cities, every year in another, there are celebrations organized. The celebrations were a few days old. Most schools, institutions from the Raciborza region and from the county took part in these celebrations. There were competitions, there were sports competitions. There was a summary and at the same time a joyful ending with the concert of Golec at the Orchestra. As part of my legislative work, if I may say so, I have put forward opinions on legislative proposals. The Ombudsman does not have a legislative initiative on his own, but participates in the opinion of various types of projects. Opinions concerned criminal law, administrative law, many institutions, as well as the law on public benefit activities. Last year, I was also actively involved, as the only body for the protection of rights, in the preparation of the law adopted also by the High House, probably unanimously, on the Committee on Clarification, in short, of paedophiles. I made comments at the time. And this was one of the most important and most difficult laws of last year, and at the same time not only expected and needed socially, but also indicating the existing shortcomings of the system of protection of rights in this very difficult and painful range of crimes against children. The representatives of my office also took part in the work of the Working Group on Children and Youth Safety on the Internet. The project on child safety, child protection against pornography on the Internet was presented at the end of 2019. It is subject to legislative work in the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Digital Affairs. The project was widely commented and at the same time agreed with many actors, including the Ombudsman and many associations. I hope that this draft will soon be presented to the High House for adoption as a law. As for the typically technical part, which summarizes 2019, I will say that the letters coming to the Ombudsman's office were 37,000 411 and the outgoing letters This shows the scale of the office's operations. Despite the fact that the Ombudsman is based only in Warsaw, without field offices, however, any case which affects the office is very carefully analysed, very reliable responses are prepared for the parties. I would like to point out that my activities, as an Ombudsman of the rights of the child, are directed, on the one hand, at this daily tedious, antical work on a case-by-case basis, not only those reported directly to the office, but also those from media reports... Not everyone has the courage or willingness to turn, but at the same time the situation of a child requires activity. This is the ant job. And on the other hand... This is later translated into general speeches and activities to encourage, to make the law follow life as soon as possible. 'Cause that's how the law follows life. To counter events that are negative for children. For the activity of the Ombudsman is the activity of the one who speaks on behalf of those whose voice is not heard, those who are often considered not to have a voice. This is what the spokesperson does: speaking on behalf of someone. Notes about the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland in 2019. Office activity is one thing, and analysis and translation into general speeches and to verify how much we have done for children and what we have not done yet are these comments. The need to respect the rights of a child is our natural duty. There doesn't have to be a constitution, a convention. Just as people, as citizens experienced and sensitive... For example, the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child was established in Poland is an expression of our sensitivity, our, Poles, experienced by various events of the 20th century. It's an expression of skill. And the law... At the same time, however, the rights of the child are not fully codified in any of these rights. It can be said that the most important concept of children's rights, which is the child's well-being, is also not codified anywhere. There is no legal definition of the child's welfare. That's why I'm sometimes asked what the child's welfare is. I've been thinking about it for a long time, all the time. It is indicated in every court decision, in every case concerning social rights. Today there will probably be a few thousand court cases and every judge will be looking into the welfare of many children today. A total of thousands of children. Suffice it to say, there are about 0.5 million children cases in family courts every year. Therefore, in my comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, I would like to first remind and highlight the unresolved case, which is in conflicting Polish laws. On the one hand, it is reminded by me of the law on the right to life since conception, I do not say truism, I do not mock anyone, I just remind myself of the law in force in Poland and on the other hand there are laws that are in force, which are the right to life, that is, the more important law, they violate. I am talking about contradictions in the provisions of the 1993 Act on family planning and protection of the human foetus as regards at least the admissibility of abortion during the prenatal period. And in this respect, in 2019 I joined the Constitutional Tribunal as an amicus curiae to the request of some of the parliamentarians. In this respect, I support various legislative initiatives, including citizens' initiatives, and I do so also in 2020, and I keep reminding you. I note positive legislative changes in 2019 for children, such as this element that I have already mentioned, namely the extension of the 500+ programme, i.e. State support in raising children For all children. It is a good movement, indicating once again the sensitivity of the Polish state to the personal situation, the situation of decent social conditions of children. An important aspect of the summary of positive legislative decisions is the adoption of a law on the commission for paedophiles. And this may be a small element that is worth mentioning, because together with the High House we had a part in this... In the autumn of last year, exactly in August and September, when the projects of the new tax matrix were presented, and some parents raised comments and concerns about raising the tax burden on gluten-free products, as we know, now more and more children have these problems in our society and must adopt special types of milk or gluten-free products. One of the two amendments made by the High House to the matrix, concerning the fact that this tax was not increased, proved to be effective. It was accepted by the Sejm. However, so far there have been unresolved problems in the field of law and legislation. First of all, when it comes to education and education, I pay attention to the events of 2019 in which the teacher strike took place. However the catch of our democracy is the right to strike and that it is constitutional law, but in the form in which it existed last year, i.e. the closing of schools for 4 weeks, it was the moment of the complete exclusion of the education system for several million of our children. In my opinion, in this formula, constitutional law, which I absolutely agree with, but carried out in the same way as last year, is incompatible with another constitutional law which I have a duty to protect and which children have, that is, the right to learn. In this respect, I believe it would be important for the Constitutional Court to respond, which of these rights and in what form should take precedence. In addition, I point out that matters concerning the organisation of youth educational centres or those concerning children with decisions on the need for special education are still pending. In the area of juvenile law, current legislation should be introduced for the sake of our social development. The Juvenile Act is from 1982, it does not conform to current needs. There's a project ready. I hope that it will be adopted during this parliamentary term. It will help a great many children, perhaps not hundreds of thousands, not millions, but the most affected, lost, abandoned ones that the state deals with by virtue of its constitutional standard, among others. also to minor mothers who are in different centres and are often separated from their children. And my concern is that the bond of motherhood, the bond of parenthood, should also be in this situation. Another important aspect that I am calling for and pointing out as an unsolved one, where it is necessary to supplement it so that we can say that we are even better protecting the rights of the child, is the issue of improving the activities of family courts, and especially the introduction of the so-called. Alimony immediately or family mediation, informational proceedings. I refer to these tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of family cases before the courts. Let us be aware, High Izbo, that every such thing concerns a child. Every kid like that knows about this case in court. Each child sees a dispute between parents and carers. And unfortunately, in such a spirit, it is raised and shaped. The less litigation, the more mediation, the more conclusively they will be settled, the better it is for the child's sake. Therefore, I trust that the draft law from the previous term of office, from Seym Printing No 3254, which, as in many cases, was supported by a broad political framework, will be implemented as soon as possible in this term. He will improve court proceedings, he will reduce the number of these most difficult cases, speed up these proceedings. The issue I mentioned earlier is very important about the participation of the Ombudsman's staff in the work of the team and the draft restricting pornographic content available to children on the Internet. I also made a legislative proposal to extend the powers of the Ombudsman. High Izbo, I can represent children in almost all cases, administrative, civil, family, inheritance, but in cases where there is the greatest crime, murder, rape, criminal cases, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child does not have such powers, and criminal proceedings do not provide for a lawyer for the child. The most vivid example of the fact that these powers would be needed to help the justice system, alongside the prosecutor, to remind the child of the welfare of the child, is, for example, a case from Łódź, appalling everyone, where the court reduced the sentence for brutal rape of a few years old and crushing his head from 25 to 15 years old. There was no child's voice in this case. I can only proceed at the stage of the cassation, and I'm filing this cassation, but for such a brutal crime and not remembering the harm of this child... Prevention, when it comes to other children, against whom, as we hear, a crime is being committed somewhere, must be spoken in the courtroom. It's supposed to be preventive for the future. That is why I am asking for provisions to extend the powers of criminal law to help the victims of minors and children. Additional, such very specific are my speeches concerning the proper hearing of children in courts, that this should be done not in the courtroom, but in the so-called. friendly rooms. We as Poles can be proud here, Poland can be proud because it introduces this standard in one of the best aspects and most of all in Europe, we are an example for others. But at the same time, we cannot rest on the laurels, because the laws formally concern criminal proceedings, and family courts use these rooms at once. I think it requires statutory regulation. Social, social and health issues. It could be said that developing and monitoring the activities of urban and municipal social assistance centres is one thing, but there are things that are only a few a year, but are very painful. About that. I spoke at the joint committee meeting, but let me remind you. Situations concerning the issue of child birth cards or the birth card of a dead child or the disposal of these documents are still not regulated. And these kazuses are the most painful. One quote, in this regard there was a general speech, I look forward to the response of resorts, health and administration, but also digitalisation. This is what the Ombudsman of the rights of the child meets with every day, these are matters that he analyses and implements immediately. A young girl writes a letter by hand. Friday, sometime this afternoon, I'm reading this letter. I think it was around 12:00. or 1 p.m., and often in the consciousness of state offices it's about to be a weekend or already is. And I'm reading from this letter that this girl had a baby, prematurely, somewhere in the city, in the store. Ambulance is here, one is here, they're resuscitating, they're taking them to the hospital, the baby's still alive. They're being taken over by the second team, but before they get to the hospital, the baby dies. And this mom writes to me after two weeks that she can't bury this baby because she has no paper on it, no birth certificate issued, no act issued at the civil status office, no documents handed over, no PESEL. And yet that little boy was alive, he was human, just human. On that day, although it was Friday, we managed to discipline, to put it mildly, the health care team and the civil status office, and supervising them to some extent the department of the voivodeship office, including that they kindly wait for this girl, who on Friday afternoon must travel the entire blocked city to obtain these documents. Because you can, you just have to want. And it was supposed to be that he was supposed to pick up the baby on Monday so he could bury them properly. There's no recipe, there's problems, or at some point there's a human anesthetic somewhere. And the health care that I thank for doing this, because it's their job, and I have the utmost respect for her... Only then he comes into the paperwork, and the paperwork in the collision with a man shouldn't matter, not even in the collision with such a small man. High Izbo, the question is, what should the Ombudsman do, what is the purpose of the Ombudsman's activity? Our goal, and mine as a representative of the children, should be to raise our children to be good and righteous people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u5	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. Would any of you senators like to ask the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak? [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: From the spot, right?]] Mr. Spokesman, if you don't mind, come back. Senator Alicia Chybick. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Mr. Spokesman! I have the following question: in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified in 1991, will you take care of, and take care of, every child, regardless of his religion, skin colour, sexual preference, origin? That's the first question. And question two, related to it. How many children of another faith The Catholic faith is common in Poland. In 2019 the Catholic faith came to your office with problems? Question three. What kind of experts do you use... I'm gonna need names. I'm gonna need a written answer to that question. There was always a council in front of the spokesperson for the rights of the child. What kind of advice is that at the moment? Does she even exist? And what kind of experts do you appoint in various cases? Well, of course, I'm most interested in medical matters. And another, last one, question. You said and wrote at the beginning, in the preamble of your summary, that the child has the right to be raised in the family, and the parents have the right to raise this child according to their own tastes, according to their own education. And my question. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, this child is a small man. You are the person who should defend him always and everywhere, also from parents who are of the margin, who are miscarriage to this child, who break his moral, mental and any other spine. Are you doing this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u7	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u8	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Senator, As far as the first issue is concerned, I do not differentiate between children, I do not ask children about the color of the skin, nor about religion, nor about origin, nor about nationality. Examples? I was in the case of a Russian who came from Sweden by transit, it should not be our Polish case at all, because he left Sweden and returned to Russia. I also defended a Swedish boy who flew from Sweden to Poland, I don't even know what religion he was, I didn't ask. I was also defending the Chechen family. They are Muslims who managed to take them from the plane and bring them back to the resort. They had jobs, they had centres, they had schools. The boys were wrestling representatives, they had medals, excellent accomplishments, and I don't think these trophies would fit on this table. I defend my children the same way when there's one march or another, and a parent with a baby on his hands is standing in front of a police cordon. I'm also defending this child, and I'm also taking part in an ongoing investigation into the protection of this child. I defend my children when someone eats on You Tuba or on some other channel... when they put something on the Internet, urges children to do something, solicites them and urges them to use vulgarity, spits on different people. I approach each of these matters regardless of my views. Not only do I not ask about opinions, but I also think that they don't matter at all here. It's important that the child is not demoralized, depraved. Children of another faith. That was also the answer to that question. I don't know, Mrs. Senator, how many children of faith have come to me. There's no paragraph, no point in asking children about religion. As I said, every aspect, every form of action, every action against children is analyzed by me, and in each of these cases I participate. I will answer the question of experts in writing. At the same time, I ask you kindly to accept such information that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child is a single institution in some way, a function entrusted by Parliament, by both chambers, by a constitutional body. The office itself, the office has the form, you can say, the authorship, which is why not everything that used to be, I will continue to lead. At the same time, good practices, which I have talked about a lot today, such as the Children's Phone of Trust, various kinds of meetings, activities, are being continued. The last part about the worldview. Here I'll refer basically to my general answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u9	Thank you. Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u10	Thank you very much. I would ask you to answer all my questions in writing. You mentioned in one of your meetings with the editors that children who are lost, emotionally unstable, are given drugs from school educators that are used to change sex. First of all, I'd like to know what these measures are. I would very much ask for that information. Has there been a report to the prosecutor's office on those school educators? How many cases were there? If there hasn't been a report like this, why? Have they reported to your parents whose children have changed their sexes? Was there an organization involved in this matter? This is very interesting. I have a granddaughter at school, and I'd like to know something about it, and I'd like to hear about these very interesting things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u11	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u12	High Izbo! Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, This applies to this year, but I will be happy to answer, clarify and respond to these living things for more than a week. I could have said that a little more precisely during the interview. I've written this down because it's worth knowing what the means are. These are the pharmacological agents that are the synthetic counterpart of estradiol, a hormone that acts through specific receptors on the sexual organs, the mammary gland, the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland, conditioning the other - and third-rate sexual traits. That's... I'm not gonna mention the name of those measures, but I'm gonna say that a notice has been filed with the D.A.'s office. What's more, the case is well-established. I'm saying it's proven by documents. That the prosecution initiated an investigation, not only on the basis of my notification, because, as it turned out, other persons also reported this kind of activity, i.e. illegal trafficking of drugs, including among children. This procedure has been initiated, it is being conducted and it is, you can say, developmental. So much for this issue, this loud topic, which is something, you can say, a new, additional, unrelated to the 2019 annual information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u13	Thank you. [[Sorry, I'd still like to...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u14	I was supplementing it... Did your parents report to you or any organization that your child had a changed sex, so to speak, against your will and against your parents?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u15	High Izbo, Madam Senator, is in my speech to local governments, several local governments, and one in particular... It's also based on a report from a parent who filed a case like this. So that this is a specific case, a particular child, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u16	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Brejza, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In reference to this statement, Minister, to the topic of pills allegedly distributed by educators in Poznań, I would like to ask if you have a more specific knowledge in which the school and who allegedly distributed these pills. Why did you report... Is it true that you didn't file a notice to the D.A. until after the famous interview? The second question concerns cooperation with Ordo Iuris. During this period of activity, did you have such cooperation? Are the experts, co-workers of the ombudspersons of the ombudspersons of the association Ordo Iuris? And one more thing. You have criticized the bill on the abortion compromise here, you have revealed that you have joined the Constitutional Tribunal, along with a group of members of the PiS. In your opinion, Mr. Spokesman, is it appropriate and not barbaric to force a woman to bear a child with very severe, incurable lethal defects, such as the heart outside or the brain annihilated, to give birth to a child who will die on the day of birth or the days after birth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u18	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u19	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, in my words... in my interview, I didn't say anything about it happening in schools. We need to be precise and listen carefully... So it is that the word "educator" is identified with the school, but in fact it is not yet so fortunately. So I didn't say it was a school anywhere. As for Ordo Iuris... Just like it was with my choice, and it was the facts... I didn't cooperate and I don't work at Ordo Iuris. Of the many conferences I attended... I took part in conferences in which this foundation or foundation took part, giving the children strength and various other, sometimes even both of these foundations together. That's how I answer. Among my employees as well... It's just a human right. Even the law forbids you to ask questions about that kind of thing. I don't know if anybody... and what foundations they work for, is helping out or socializing. This also applies to other aspects... I'm sure the question can be answered in a moment. I'm gonna beat 'em right away. Mr. Blazej Kmiesiak has something to do with this organization. I'm gonna say he's been working with the Helsinki Human Rights Foundation for just as long, I guess. He's just an outstanding specialist in medical law, psychology and mediation, which is why I called him. I'm not in the habit of violating the law by examining the views of my employees, my associates, my experts. And the last question and the so-called. an abortion compromise. The Ombudsperson's Act of 6 January 2000 contains a sentence that needs to be said again. I will remind them: a child is every human being from conception to adulthood. And here's the dot, there's no comma, there's no unless there's something. I stand as a lawyer, and those are the rules, among others. Already from the law of Rome that the law is newer abolishes the law of the older, the law is newer, so we acknowledge. Perhaps this principle could apply, then, that the law of the older, even before the entry into force of the Constitution, is simply incompatible... As for individual cases, please forgive us, but we are not meant to assess these aspects, and often as regards the subject, which is also the subject of a civil project or another request to the Court, issues concerning the health of the child are always conjecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u20	Thank you. Senator Brejza wanted to ask. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u21	Thank you. Since I have not yet obtained information from your spokesperson, whether you know these educators or whether you will tell me what city they were supposed to be working in, I ask you to answer the question whether this is true, and if so, why did you report after this press interview? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u22	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u23	High Izbo! Dear Senator, The Ombudsman's work is that he may not be every day, but certainly every week in response to various kinds of cases he does not only proceed to judicial or prosecutorial cases, if possible... I want the file, I'm filing notices. This usually happens after an analysis of the file. I'm not doing this rashly. And so it was in this case. It was one of the few notifications I've made in the last few days. So whether it was before or after the performance, it doesn't matter. It is important that this is an effective, well-liked notification. Whether it's about transactivists, educators, where, where, where they used the servers, what comms, how they packed these drugs into their backpacks, because it's basically part of the illegal trade, and these backpacks with these drugs. I saw... It's all being investigated by the prosecution, and she as the competent authority will explain these circumstances. My job is to protect children, protect children and sometimes prevent them from becoming victims of illegal drug trafficking in the beginning of the year. I think we all agree that we wouldn't want our children to be victims of illegal drug trafficking, anything. And at the same time, allow me to... Because I am aware that since these questions have fallen and they concern 2020 and not the information about 2019, but... I would like us not to trivialize and ridicule this difficult problem for many people, because there are situations when there is and there is legal modification, and to this medical, and pharmacological, and physical... A few days after my speech, when trivialized, mocked at the words about these means, a two - page article with a description of a very serious matter was published in the press, but with a title similar to my words. And I wish there was no hypocrisy. This is an article from the Election Gazeta from September 5, the Table for gender change. And the description is very serious. So let us not mock and divide, for I have raised a very important problem. I would like this subject to be dealt with in terms of difficult matters, difficult situations of people, including young people, and not trivialized, and not mocked at this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u24	Thank you. Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Ombudsperson, the international level recognizes Poland as the homeland of the rights of the child, and that is true, because we were inspirational, co-authors, if not authors in their entirety... And certainly the Polish pedagogical thought gave the basis for the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We have the best in the world. And I say this not without a Cosser, because recommended by the UN to implement in all countries of the world The Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. Therefore, a person equipped with such important and recognised tools by the national heath must also be a person of special trust. My question is this: do you think that seeking a lawyer for a function that he did not fulfil by law gives you a sense of social trust, or does this trust undermine you? What criteria do you make for the people you employ in your office? I'm asking you the most about the deputy. You have appointed an Assistant Child Rights Officer, in my opinion a person who certainly has a great education, but technical education, is after the Mining and Steel Academy. I would therefore also like to ask you whether you do not believe that this trust is being called into question by the fact that your lawyer has not complied with the statutory obligation to report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2018. I understand that you took up this function late at the end of 2018, and that you were obliged to report what your predecessor was doing. However, this statutory requirement is not personal to the person who performs this function but to the office. And maybe if it weren't for the personal revolution, it would be easier for you to present this report and to comply with this statutory requirement. We do not have a report by the Ombudsman on the rights of the child for 2018. And one more question, really such a nature for me, so important that all the next questions should be answered only after you have answered it. Well, you're right, a spokesperson is someone who speaks for himself. I would like to ask you what you, as a spokesman, say on behalf of children born by the in vitro method, which you consider both morally and legally to be a wicked method. And what do you say on behalf of non-hetero-normative children when you publicly criticize one of the local governments' signatures? Well, we're not gonna pretend we don't know which one, I'm thinking of the Warsaw government. A card that allows these children not to feel excluded? And one last question. As with the increasing violence against the children I was just talking about, how will you respond to the necessity... also to the international... not to the order, but to the suggestion that each country should adopt a national strategy to combat violence against children? Have you taken any action in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u26	Thank you very much, Senator. It's a formal matter. Senator Wind reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u27	Mr Marshal, I would very much like to ask the marshal to waive part of the senator's question concerning the Ombudsman's person, because this has nothing to do with this report. I'm not going to talk about cultural aspects anymore... [[Excuse me...]] ...that question, awkward. But it doesn't have anything to do with it. And I ask you, Mr. Marshal, to waive this part of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u28	Mr. Senator, I'm not breaking that question. And it wasn't a formal application, your application isn't in the catalogue of formal applications. [[Of course it is. Proposal for a way of conducting the proceedings, Mr Marshal. The relevant letter of the relevant paragraph of the Regulation. Thank you very much.)]] This was not about the way the discussion was conducted, it was about the substance of the statement. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u29	Thank you very much. [[There you go.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, I will refer, Mr. Senator, to these comments, and it will also refer to the question of Senator Chybick's question concerning experts working in the office and working in the office. There are various aspects of the rights of the child, the activities of the Ombudsman, and that of everyone, including my predecessors. Shouldn't a lawyer be a spokesperson? Of the forty-several advocates of children's rights in Europe, 27 are probably lawyers, lawyers. That's one thing. Secondly, some of the experts I have in my office What's more, not only did I take them over with the office after my predecessor, but they've worked with me so far, they're lawyers, lawyers. Because lawyers, lawyers, are most often the last of the children's rights, the basis for representing the child in court. The Ombudsperson's Act does not restrict the profession, such that only the teacher is the best advocate of the rights of the child. Moreover, one of the spokespersons for the rights of the child was Paweł Jaros, a judge. So these comments, I think, are not correct. [[I'll ask your spokesperson, if you don't mind, right now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u30	In a moment, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u31	But I don't mean, Mr. Ombudsman, that a lawyer can't be an advocate for the rights of a child. Of course he can, the bill allows it. The problem is that a lawyer, as few people do, is obliged to comply with the laws. And the lawyer entering the competition, applying for any position probably much better than any of us can read the criteria that apply to take this position, i.e. the criteria that allow for the competition. You did not comply with the statutory requirement of 5 years of working with or for children, and yet you applied for the position of an ombudsperson. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u32	In a minute. Mrs. Senator, of course, I'm writing you down, but please speak up, not in response. [[The Ombudsman misunderstood, so...]] There you go, Mr. Spokesman... [[I wanted to explain.]] I see. It's... [[I'm sorry.]] That would be something else. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u33	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Marshal! These issues have been resolved, presented, proven, demonstrated, which lawyer takes care of children's rights for how many years. Both chambers of this Parliament have also confirmed this issue. So this is an evaluation issue that can be discussed in a public debate. Speaking of which, my deputy... Maria Urmańska was involved in the rights of children, for example as a foster family, and foster families were awarded the Honorary Badge for Merit for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, also by my predecessor, so that life and experience predestinated her so that I would appoint her as an alternate! but this could be said in the past time to be called for specific tasks related to education and upbringinging. So this is certainly the issue of authority, all the skills and competences she had and has, and for this I thank her very much from this place. Another thing, a similar question about the protection of children, the views, the issues with which children come to me, whether non-heteronormative children come to me. That's the new word that comes along. Whether children come from in vitro or others come to us with complaints. Like I said, I don't differentiate children. Every child, every man is to me the one to be protected, to be protected most by me. I stand up for everyone. I gave an example of a march where my father was standing in front of a police cordon with a baby on his hands. It was a gathering blocking one of the rainbow marches. I took the case, too, because I think it's wrong. This father had to be properly prepared before the family court to continue his parental functions so that he would not do such things. And regardless of the colors... So that here the issue of communication, assistance, violence against children and the demand... [[Voice from the room: Optional...]] Yeah, optional national strategy. National strategies and various types of upper-flying issues are very important, they are simply in us as a natural law. But I'm also moving on to my actions, Senator Dear. Here, for example, is the legislative activity related to the unanimously adopted and in this House, and in the lower chamber the anti-violence law was, it seems, April, May this year, which introduces the possibility of immediate protection of the family from someone who abuses it, exposing a delict for a fraternity from the house. It wasn't there. Here are specific tasks, powers that now enter into force, among others. in the Police Act. I was involved in the preparation of these provisions 2 and 3 years ago, while still in the Ministry of Justice, with the idea that there would be a specific tool, and not just upper-floor words that would not be implemented later. This is a tool for the police and this is the implementation of individual children's rights to protect against violence. These are the concrete forms of my business as a spokesperson. As regards the formal issues, I know that the reports will contact the secretariat of the Senate Office and my office on the clarification of the 2018 report and its appearance in public form. It so happens that the previous year was the year of the change of term and not all cases were completed at that time. That's what happens, unfortunately. I'm sure this will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u34	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, of course, you, like every man and citizen, have the right to have your own views on all matters, but as an Ombudsman, you are to defend and protect Polish children. In the meantime, you're going crazy, and the sexual education issue is the case where you've probably gone the farthest way, into ideological polemics. And that's the mistake you made. In this famous conversation on TVN, unfortunately, you misled the audience by giving false information, simply creating fake news. That is why, in this House, we expect you to correct, not to explain, why, whether, when the prosecution will explain this, just to correct the words you have said. You said, I quote: Mr. Editor, and will you guarantee that we will let sexual educators into 20,000 schools and they will introduce such content as in Poznań, where they capture the child somewhere shaky, neglected, and to whom they give you educators with these funds You said about an event that did not take place in Poznań schools. So that's what you should correct. I would like to ask you about the educational opportunities of Polish children, because today you said about the teacher strike of April 2019 that he excluded several million children from education. I would like to ask you if you intervened, and if so, how you intervened, in the Ministry of Education and in relation to the government that was responsible for this strike, that on the first day of the strike it struck 75% Polish schools. Did you intervene so that the government wouldn't fake it, but negotiate with the strikers? Did you urge the government to behave honestly and responsibly towards Polish teachers who, in various media controlled by the government, in particular TVP, were humiliated and insulted? What did you do about it? How did you act for Polish teachers and therefore for Polish children? Please provide a concrete map of your actions on this matter, that is what we expect of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, to the question about last year, the strike of teachers and the actions I have undertaken, I will answer in this way. When we remember that turn of March and April, the time before graduation... The round table was very important after that. When did I propose mediation? Well, I proposed a round table for all of the education system then the minister was Anna Zalewska, i.e. all teachers' unions and parents' organisations, and it was January 15, 2019. In the second half of January, it seems that two such meetings took place in my office. The point was to counteract it, to prevent... to hear what everyone's right is. It was January last year. There was a minister and a former trade union except one trade union. I'm sorry, I'm At that time, I tried to get an amicable, mediational explanation of the case so that there would be no strike, and even then such threats would fall. I participated actively in the meetings of this main round table, in explaining and negotiating. At that time I also attended these meetings, also personally. The only ones who haven't answered my questions... And that comes from the bill, that's the power of the spokesperson of the bill. Every institution in Poland, every organization must answer my questions, in accordance with the law. And I was just asking about the postulates and the stage of the work. The only organization that didn't answer those questions was the NSA. All other union centers, local governments were also involved... For example, yesterday, Mr. President of the Polish Towns Association was also... These representatives took part in these meetings with me and there was a discussion. But not everyone wanted to take a specific, substantive part in it. So that I took such actions then, I took part in mediation meetings within the round table To give children the right to study. However, the important and very good demands are the decent, rising earnings of all social groups, but in the compilation of these rights... I uphold the right of children to learn, to fulfil the State's obligation to ensure that children are taught during a given period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. You're asking Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to raise two points here and raise questions with them. First issue, NGOs. How do you fulfil your statutory obligation to cooperate with non-governmental organisations? What organizations do you work with, and what does this cooperation involve? How do you choose the organisations you work with, what are the criteria for this choice? Do you cooperate, for example? with youth city councils? That would be one thing. The second issue concerns institutional care. What steps have you taken to ensure that there are no children under the age of 10 in institutional care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u40	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, NGOs... Yes, this cooperation is a duty, but also such a natural formula of the Ombudsman's activities. I totally agree with that. I took over some of the activities of my predecessors so far, and these organizations were in my office and various kinds of initiatives... Most of the time, it involves patronage, presence support, lecture support, such activities were. Like I said, patrons. Last year I gave more than 180 to non-governmental organisations, and this concerned a very wide range of organisations. I have been at meetings on the fight against violence against children, they are held every year in the Palace of Culture and Science as part of the good work of the Foundation.We give the Children Power, and this has been happening for many years, even before I became a spokesman, I took part in this. But also great organizations, such as scouting, ZHP, scouts, ZHR, as I was talking about, support for this youth, this formula of upbringing, and patriotic, and personal simply, participation in the great rally of Scouts in Mazury... This type of activity is and this type of activity will certainly continue. As for institutional care, second, short question... I'm aware. We also discussed this with the senator at the joint committee meeting, and I absolutely confirm it. The system is not yet perfect and does not work as it should with regard to institutional care. Children should not, and certainly the youngest, stay in the children's homes. We must strive to develop foster care, to mobilise foster families, that is obvious. But there are situations and places, such as in Łódź, where in fact there are such deficiencies and the house of a small child still functions. It is very close to me, believe me, even personally, for various reasons. That is why there have been and there have been actions in this area, there are my speeches to the Minister of the Family, to draw up rules that will enable them to function efficiently and at the same time allow children to be brought up in such conditions as to replace the family.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u42	Do you want a written reply? [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: May I ask you another question? I'd just like to ask.]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u43	Do you have any record of how many children under the age of 10 are in children's homes? Maybe not the exact figures, but at least the percentages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u44	Mr. Senator, these are also data that are constantly changing... Allow me to reply in writing, it will be up-to-date, concrete, so there will be no mistake. As long as I have the data I've collected, I'll give it to the senator. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. And Senator Beata Małecka-Libera is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, my two short questions are primarily based on the reading of the open letter you wrote at the beginning of this report. Well, in my opinion, this letter is open and expressing its views, the world view is absolutely important to you as a person, to Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, not to the spokesperson. After you have adopted the role of the Ombudsman, you should not write in an open letter, because, after reading this letter, we can clearly say that you are a defender for only part of the children, and that you, as an advocate, should stand up for everyone and be guided primarily by knowledge and respect, that should be the most important values. And you're actually denying these values by saying that the scientific advances of knowledge or wise men, as you write here, are of no interest to you at all, which makes me very sad as a medical person. And I have two specific questions. First. Are you really a defender and spokesman for only part of Polish families, or everyone, and all the children who are raised in different families and are different children? And my second question is: what is your position on sexual education and the introduction of this subject into schools, what has the medical community been calling for for years? Is there anything you've done in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u47	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, in an open letter I would not write in the language of the law and like a lawyer, because it is not to be an appeal against a judgment. An open letter is the translation of the law into a common language. This is the law of the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Act on the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child in Poland. The rules show that the natural environment of the child's development is a family. Such passuses fall also in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So I do nothing that is not based on Polish law. I'm reminding you of some of the fundamentals of the law. They might be redrafted. The creator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Prof. Smyczyński, when I talk to him about what was at the heart of this document, what was the thought of what was the idea, also mentions the right to have parents, families. It's the right of the child. That's why I'm standing here defending the rule of law. If I hadn't, I wouldn't have done my job. As far as sexual education is concerned, it's a subject that's very up-to-date. Sexual education in the form of an approved program is in Polish schools. These are items approved since a quarter of a century by regulations. There's forms for it, there's a whole program. I'm talking about raising people to live in the family. What is an accepted democratic standard is in schools. I often stand up for my children and my parents, standing together with them in one line, along with those whose voices were not heard. They do not want behind their back the content which is not introduced by the democratic standard, as part of the educational programme, the program that is in force and to which tens of thousands of teachers are prepared in substance, to be introduced. I'm doing this not because I can ideologically disagree with this content, but because if the school principal introduced a person who doesn't have pedagogical or teaching powers into school, he would have disciplinary action. And the question is, do educators have that kind of authority? If they do, you're welcome. In a democratic system, the curriculum can be changed and the content that is now being created can be introduced. I'm saying, and it's just like that, it's a provision of education law, regulations. That education in this area is available to all. Thank you. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u49	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u50	So I understand, Mr Ombudsperson, that in your opinion, what is now sufficient is enough. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u51	I said there's an education program. [[Senator Beat Małecka-Libera: But I asked your opinion.]] Whether it is sufficient or properly presented, given, is, of course, a matter for discussion. The question to consider is whether it is up to date, for example because of social development since the quarter of a century... But I ask your opinion all the time. It's all under discussion. Surely you should listen to the voice of experts here in the right manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Spokesman, now I'm asking the questions. A paedophile commission has been set up, to which you have addressed your representative. Has she started work yet or not? That's the first question. Two. Under applicable law, parents decide to raise their children. Tell me... Well, there could be conflicts. Children over 15 have their own views, 16 years old have their own views. You met with such situations that there was a conflict of views between children who were about 16 and 18 years old and their parents. Suppose they demanded to go to church or forbidding to go to the temple, and the children had different views. Have such conflicts and problems reached you? Another thing: tell me what the situation is about the possibility of raising children according to parents' views on ethics lessons. Because there's a recipe that says that if a parent doesn't want to send a child to religious classes, he should send them to ethics classes. What is the situation with ethics lessons? What is the implementation of this provision? And one last thing: do you do or do boosters? If so, I'd like to know how... Because boosters, no very harmful means, are addressed to children and young people. What does the number of children under the age of 18 who use boosters look like? This is a serious problem, and I would like to know if you have taken care of this problem when it comes to children and young people. And so I'm asking what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the commission on paedophile acts, just to remind and indicate the stages... On July 24, the committee vowed, the Sejm elected the chairman. As far as I know, this is the creation of an absolutely new office, for which there was not even, apart from the budget reserve, of the paragraph mentioned, we as representatives of the offices are aware of what these are important issues. According to the information I have, last Friday was published in the Official Journal of the Prime Minister's regulation concerning... This is the first piece of legislation that stands, it seems, for workers. This is a statutory requirement from the bill that Parliament has passed. It is prepared from what I know, and I say this on the basis of the information I receive from the committee circles a place that will be an office. I think that's the point. A week or two weeks that these basic things... Because you had to put on a NIP, a REGON, even make a seal. As far as I know, funds from the budget reserve for the committee will be transferred in the coming days, because the simplest, most banal things are involved. If we can build this office within this month and a half, I think it will be a great achievement of the chairman and the members of the committee that they have built the committee office from scratch within a month and a half. I think that in September it will formally start working and inform the public about its address, because even this portal gov. pl must rise for the committee. Administrative activities are already underway. I know there's gonna be more activities in the day. That's the line. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the answers to the second and third questions will be combined because they concern education and education. I would like us to be aware of the terminology and meaning of the words "education." Raising is a priority for parents and family. It comes from the constitution, the convention and the law. Education, that's the transfer of knowledge methodically. This duty rests with the State. Sometimes there are various kinds of disputes or doubts at the interface between the education to be carried out by the State through the school system and the upbringing that is reserved for parents. So that this distinction I very much want to emphasize and apply, because it is very important for a full and correct understanding of further doubts or explanations. It is very important that there are matters, especially concerning, for example, moral or worldview issues, which I am drawing to the attention of the Senator, directly by virtue of the rule. They're entrusted to the family. Children's rights are sometimes dealt with in criminal law. For example, in the case of offences against children and certain sexual acts, age is limited to 15 years of age, i.e. what is allowed for a teenager over 15 years of age, it is not allowed to do to a child under 15 years of age. The question of the distinction between religion and ethics. Like I said, this law has been in force for a quarter of a century. We are already naturally accustomed to the fact that at the beginning of the year these classes or other activities are chosen in schools. This involves making a statement by parents. In the case of older students, they are often made by the pupils themselves, and in high school adults who are before graduation can make such decisions individually, it is simply their citizens' right. That's why about this... There have been cases like this, I'm signaling. I'm not gonna tell the marshal at this point whether it was three cases or five cases, but a few cases in the field of child dispute, a student, a teenager and her parents about whether or not to attend these classes have happened. Most of the time... it's always this way, and it's always me, too, that we're trying to explain this dispute between parents and the student, to make both sides aware of these aspects of human freedom, and at the same time there's never any encouragement to one or another. This is information and something, you can say, like explaining and meditating, encouraging good relationships. Because a child for his parents, no matter what faith he will have in the future, or what views he will have, will always be a child. The point is to remember that these matters can never disrupt their family relationship, their most intimate, mutual love. I'm always trying to keep things quiet in this field. Thank you, Mr. Marshal... Oh, and the boosters, I'm sorry, it's a matter of boosters. If such cases arise, they are immediately notified and the health services and the justice services, because these are simply criminal acts and these are addictive measures for children. When it comes to the number of receiving children, it is difficult to talk about numbers, because not all cases are recorded. Unfortunately, despite some solutions that were adopted years ago, this market is still open. However, we can talk about certain statistics when it comes to children, young people, whom we call corrupt in some part, whether we refer to as the one who falls into the arms of the courts when acts of corruption or criminal acts occur. Often, one of the elements that did not demand to raise these children was that they were addicted to various kinds of drugs or drugs. These children are supported in various types of centres, and in youth education centres, and in correction facilities, which also have a base of assistance for these children. As far as numbers are concerned, I can tell you how many children are currently in correction facilities. When I left the Ministry of Justice and took up the role of spokesperson, there was, apparently, 600-800 children in these establishments. These are the toughest cases, but I'm not exactly equal to every case of a kid like that using boosters or drugs. These are the numbers. In MOW, there were about 5 thousand children in youth educational centers at that time. These numbers are getting a little smaller, they're moving. Nevertheless, these are estimates. But, of course, there are also children who take such drugs and who have not yet entered the aid scheme in this regard. So that's a big problem, and I'm sure every time the health services, medical services or the justice system have to be notified, because this plague has to be combated. I absolutely agree with the marshal here. All child addiction measures should be eliminated, and this phenomenon must be combated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u54	Thank you. Senator Marek Plura, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u55	Mr. Ombudsperson, a few moments ago, you made a constitutional accusation against the teachers who were on strike. You don't have to be a lawyer to know that it's the constitution that puts it on the state. Not on teachers. The obligation to secure and enforce the right of children to education. The state, in particular the government and the local government. A teacher is a special profession for which, I believe, a specific vocation is needed. But by calling, man will not feed and feed his children. Teachers, teaching and raising other people's children at low salaries, at the same time hurt their own children, often unable to secure their basic needs. We have exemptions in the Polish law on the application of the law, also the right to strike among employees. The groups covered by these exemptions are certainly policemen or soldiers. These specific regulations do not include the work of teachers. I am convinced that if a teacher strike were to threaten some serious consequences, they would also be banned from strike. That's why the question is, doesn't it seem excessive to you? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] [[Mr. Senator, we have a minute to ask, and you're already speaking two minutes.]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u56	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u57	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Senator, I have pointed out the question that the Court could dispel for certain, and I have pointed out a contradiction that many have identified with which their parents have applied. I have pointed out that this form of strike does not deprive the right of another, more important or equally important, it is for everyone's decision... From my perspective, from the perspective of the ombudsman, children's rights to study in the system of a country that includes teachers... I thank them for their very energetic and creative approach to the situation this year, when after a few days they started in most cases a remote education supported by hundreds of millions on computers, on the Internet... I mean questioning and signaling a problem that appeared in many thousands of Polish houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u58	Thank you very much. Yes? You're welcome, with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u59	I observe that not only questions are repeated but also answers to questions. For this reason, I would ask you to close the list of people asking questions. [[I'd like to report before closing...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u60	Then I'm writing down Senator Marek Borowski. Are there any other senators who would like to enroll in the question? Senator Plura again. Then I'll close... Ah, Senator Brejza. I'm closing the list of senators who want to ask questions. I would like to remind you that there is a possibility to speak in a discussion that will take place after the questioning phase. I ask you to ask Senator Mark Plura for an additional question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Ombudsperson, for several years in Poland children, pupils with disabilities have not been allowed to pursue individual teaching in the school. This is how we took our education system back to the times of the Polish People's Republic, when it was... In the 1970's, I studied only at home. And living with my peers, I couldn't learn integration until I was in college. I have a question: have you done something, and if you haven't, are you going to do something concrete to restore children with disabilities to their right to education at school, also in their individual classrooms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, yes, the problem of children with disabilities is noticed in the office. Starting with such things, you'd think small things. But they're unfortunately permanently present. Like bringing children to schools with specialized means... I'm not even talking about the fact that there's even a problem with getting the kids to school. And the problem of school education, the problem for some extra, and for children with disabilities I will also point to the Minister of Education in the near future. Because the topic of combining schools, combining classes, closing units is very important. And in this respect, my speeches are prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I ask you to ask Senator Michael Sewerinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u65	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you if you're getting complaints from your parents about the activities of external sex educators at school. But that question had already been raised and there was an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u66	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. The Lord places great emphasis on what is written in the Life Protection Act from conception. That's the case. I'm close, too. I share your position. I'd like to thank you for that. Nevertheless, I have the following two questions. Question one. I already talked about it at the committee meeting, but I'd like to make it sound like it's here. I have been approached by the Belgian Ambassador with such information that there is a dispute about the child. This is a public matter. There's a Belgian court order. And that ambassador's charge was that you didn't respect that sentence. I would like you to state your position on this matter. This is the first question: what is your position? The second question is the following. Indeed, you are presenting the whole issue here. as if from a legal point of view, as a lawyer. There was also a question here that your deputy has no pedagogical, psychological education. I'd like you to describe your team. Because indeed, a pedagogical approach, a psychological approach, is extremely important in the exercise of this office. If you're not a psychologist, a counselor, and your deputy, how do you, so to speak, work in this area and what kind of people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u68	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u69	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Senator, Yes, the Ines case because in this case we can, due to the media nature of the case and even the consent of all participants, speak directly about the girl It is international in nature. This is the case concerning Dad's will, Belga, to contacts, to pick up his daughter, in a situation where he and his mom were in a dispute, and mom died and now the girl is under the care of her grandmother here in Poland. Unfortunately, there is a very far-reaching dispute between adult carers. I ignore that this is one of the most complex legal cases. Meetings on this issue were held at the highest level. Yes, I've also been seeing the ambassador. I've been dating, too. And thank you so much for coming to see me. 3 weeks ago, with the spokesperson for the rights of the children of the French part of Belgium, Mr Bernard de Vosem. I'll probably see you next week to continue our conversations and prepare this family to settle the dispute. It is important that we ease the disputes of parents, carers. Because children have the right to grow up in peaceful conditions. Regardless of the complicated legal situation in this case, I've been asking... And that's the first thing I've talked to all the participants personally about in this case, which unfortunately not all the law enforcement authorities have done. I wanted to stop the escalation of unnecessary decisions and the involvement of the state, the execution of police officers, probation officers, because it's bad for the baby. We've all seen these actions taken in the presence of cameras. That shouldn't be the case. And that's why I also asked your ambassador, your spokesperson... In many cases, we were most in agreement with your spokesperson. We agree that Ines, as a Pole and a Belgian, should learn about the cultures of both countries, so that she could have contact with families on both sides, and that neither side would stifle on the other side, attack, that's what we're going to do. I hope that the time we now have to calm down after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which stopped this escalation of judicial decisions, is the time for agreement. We are scheduled for the first meetings, as I said, something like mediation will also be possible in my new office, which I cordially invite you to visit. There's a special meeting room for the baby, for talking to the baby, and I think it's the best place for this family to finally start talking to each other to set a good example for Ines. So it's the Ines case. The matter of the expert team... That's how it is, the spokesperson first was the author of the bill, then the spokesperson was the judge, then the pediatrician doctor, Marek Michalak was the educator, now there's the lawyer again. Yes, we are not omnibuses, we are using experts, we are using the voice of others, we are taking advice, because so it is necessary to consult to find the best position, because the situation of the child presented in the complaint, in writing or in the media message is often shown unilaterally. It needs to be highlighted and explained from many sides. I use, support specialists who worked in the office for many years, long-time employees, educators, lawyers, lawyers, but also specialists in education and pedagogy. For example, the Director of the Team. Education and Education is a teacher who also served as director of various schools. Therefore, this experience in the aspects covered by the various departments of the Ombudsman's activities is assured. As far as the scope of social, medical, social matters is concerned, the director of the relevant team also used to work at the Office of the Ombudsman. I use and eat from experts in particular fields. And the role of the spokesman, as a little bit of the author's office, function, is to collect these cases, analyze them from various aspects... Because it is so that the teacher, that someone, so to speak, from the medical field will always continue in his direction, and the role of the child's protector is to look at the child and his situation in many aspects, because perhaps in this complaint something is not said, somewhere on the margin there is a request for something else, and then you have to act. really in a lot of ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u70	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Two lines. The first is actually not a question, but an offer. You have called for an increase in the powers of the Ombudsman in criminal proceedings involving children as victims of child abuse. But in order to make the longest march, you have to take this first step, there has to be a legislative initiative. You don't have one. It can be done by the Ministry of Justice, but also by the Senate. The Senate is well suited for this type of initiative. The request to simply make an appropriate proposal for an act, as I understand it, changes to the c.p.k., send it to the family committee or to the human rights committee or finally to the Legislative Commission. I'm on this committee, and I'm gonna fly it. The second issue concerns the rights of Polish children residing abroad. It's a broad topic, and in a few places, it appears here. There is your speech to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to provide detailed information on the situation of Polish families settled in the UK, Germany and the Netherlands, with attention to the interference of foreign authorities in the parental rights of Polish emigrants; there is a request for a meeting with the spokesperson of the rights of the child, but I understand that it is also a matter of cooperation in this area; and there is a problem whether it is a question of placing minors of Polish citizens in foreign cultural foster families in which they did not have contact with Polish culture and language. This is a whole conglomeration of cases, but I'm sure it's easier for you to talk when there's a spokesperson for the rights of a child, or your equivalent, in a country. But these are the countries you mentioned about Germany In which the Ombudsman is not present. What do you do then? So, in general, how did these issues end? And secondly, who are you talking to, if there's no spokesperson in the country on the other side?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, as regards criminal law, I have such practice that if I call for any changes, I immediately prepare a project, of course, for further legislative development, but the point is that such a draft is quite important already. This has been the case in many cases. In these cases concerning criminal legislation, I have presented the draft to the President, and to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, and I also know that this project was presented in the Seym. I would be very happy to pass it on to the Senate and the High House for support. As for my activities as a representative of Polish children all over the world, this is most often the fact that we are working well together at our meetings. I say ours because there is a European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child, we meet several times a year... Well, this year, because of the pandemic, these meetings were canceled, but we meet remotely. During these meetings we discuss differences, problems and issues... And so, even other spokespersons also see that our Polish practice of the Ombudsman is the widest, and even at these meetings I am active in certain matters. And what is this? ♪ Where the spokesmen are ♪ It's about the Norwegian case that the senator mentioned... Two years ago there was a period of such extremely tense diplomatic situations also between our countries, precisely because of the issue of approach to children. Yet the Convention on the Rights of the Child has the same wording in Poland and Norway and in all other countries that ratified it, but it is different to understand it there, in Nordic countries, more social. And when there were these disputes concerning the collection of children from Polish families For various reasons, social, violence, etc., etc. There is a question of how to resolve this. The diplomatic talks were very difficult, our consul, Mr. Kowalski, was withdrawn. Whom I greet... But at the same time, this diplomatic dispute itself did not end the matter because there were children left with problems and their families. So I just decided to go to your spokesperson, Inga, who's a prosecutor... The Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child in Norway is the prosecutor who convicted Breivik [[The voice from the courtroom: He accused...]] He accused, I'm sorry, yes, he accused that terrorist Breivik. And they were very constructive conversations. There, the Ombudsman has different powers of speaking to Parliament in a slightly more general way. But at the same time I was assured of the support of your spokesperson, if there were such situations and the question of establishing relations with our social offices, our ILOS, GOPS, in order to find a Polish family that could take care of children if there were not enough Polish families in Norway. Moreover, after some time there was a visit to Poland of Barnevernet employees, a group of dozens arrived, we met in the office of the spokesperson, and in the ministry, where there is a central body in the field of international relations, and since then things have stopped. We're just taking care of the children's welfare. We offered to help with our contacts, you can just call. This important, legal contact, carried out by the central authority must be, but in the context of facts and efficiency of proceedings within our office, our activities, these relations between our offices we improve. What's more, this Norwegian practice... This is already confirmed by the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. In 2019 the most complaints for violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child were affected by Norway, precisely because of the non-respect of the right to family and these relations in the case of a foster family, i.e. the transfer of children in Norway to families of different cultures. Norway lost a dozen cases last year. I hope that these judgments will also establish a certain practice in other countries. Such meetings were also held in relations with Sweden. With Elizabeth's spokesperson, very good meetings... It was last year at my invitation to the Royal Castle in November when we celebrated the anniversaries with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She was my guest of honor. These bilateral, personal relationships are very good, too. We have such relations, for example, with spokespersons in the UK; there every region has its own spokesperson. And in the case of countries such as the Federal Republic of Germany, where there is no spokesman, and at the same time the activities of the Jugendamts sometimes raise our doubts as well. For example, a few weeks ago, there was one case that is now going on, and it seems that next week there will be dates, and we contact our diplomats and we ask them, we mobilize them. Thank you very much to the diplomats and ambassadors and the consuls who are on the scene, that they are very active, enjoy the opportunities, the powers, the Vienna Convention to approach the case to be with the Polish citizen, because the child is most often a Polish citizen. That is why we are taking part in these matters so that we can at least look at this procedure and report on it. Such a voice is also needed, shows that Poland cares for its citizens, whether children are only Poles or have different citizenships due to the multiculturalism of their families. In any case, I act actively and speak immediately. Regarding matters that affect Poland, of course, it is active at this legal level, in the preparation of letters or appeals or complaints... This is also very intensively prepared in the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I ask you to ask Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! My question begins with the fact that in schools, Mr. Ombudsperson, educational and teaching plans are in force and every school is obliged to prepare an educational programme. The educational programme is a term that sounds very clear and therefore I cannot really understand the meaning of your speech, in which you said that the school does not deal with upbringing. Well, he does. Part two, question. You were talking today about a motherly bond in the case of underage mothers who should be at MOW with their children, I think it was about nursing centers. And now I want to confront your statement from last year, for which you have submitted your report this year. On 19 June 2019, in an interview with TVP Info, you said: "I am definitely not introducing compulsory sexual education for all students into the general school. I say definitely not to introduce sexual educators into the corridors of Polish schools. I also say strongly that WHO standards should not be introduced into the Polish curriculum. You argued with the Ombudsman at the time, who pointed out that the quality of Polish education was far from what was needed. Answer me: aren't you in favour of educating in terms of distinguishing the wrong touch, you are in favour of reliable sexual education and children's deepening their knowledge of their sexuality? Please answer yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Senator, Raising in the family is the first. I didn't say he wasn't raised in school... [[That's what you said.]] ...only that you first belong to the family, and education first belongs to the school. The fact that there are educational plans and the school also raises, is obvious, following the classic. That's the line. The second point is that the senator connects the subject of teenage mothers to the performance. Yes, I am absolutely in favour of it, and I support it so that the children know that there can be no wrong touch. I support that knowledge. [[Thank you.]] I support this, only that this knowledge should be implemented in accordance with the Polish education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Please ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u79	And tell me: who is to set standards for sexual education in schools when WHO standards are inappropriate in your opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u80	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u81	Dear Senator, supplemental... WHO standards are not law, and in the Polish school there is law, i.e. a system which is introduced by regulations, the entire curriculum, also in the field of education in the family, and there these aspects are raised. And about that public debate about the so-called. I think the WHO guidelines have all been said, and about the fact that this is not the law and it certainly doesn't apply anywhere, we're all clear. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u82	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, but this is the third time, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u83	You talk all the time stubbornly about preparing for family life. Seven-year-olds don't have to be prepared for family life, but they have to be prepared so that the world doesn't hurt them. And that's what sexual education is all about, and it's absolutely unnecessary that it's demonized, because sexual education is about a little man being aware of what's good for him and what's bad for him. Thank you. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: That wasn't a question, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u84	As I understand it, it wasn't a question... [[No.]] ...just a declaration. And I remind you senators that the moment when political declarations are made is the debate, not the stage of questioning. The last of the questions that will be asked in this tour will be asked by Senator Marshal Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, I think that no one in this Chamber will be surprised if I say that your views on issues such as the right of women to informed motherhood, such as sexual education in school, in vitro or the rights of homosexuals... that in these matters our views are very distant. Nevertheless, I believe that you can still be a good advocate, even despite the unhappy speeches made about teachers or the latter concerning the hunting of young children, in order to change their sex. So you still have that chance. There is only one condition, namely that you do not expose your views in a way that hurts children. I'm going to go back to your well-known statement that the in vitro method is a wicked method. Well, if that kind of statement is heard by a child who was born in connection with this method... Tell me: how is it? What might be his attitude toward his parents? Because this wickedness applies to the parents who have applied this method. How, then, can it relate to parents? What kind of trauma is she going to suffer? You said it, it happened. I'd like to ask you if you're ready to declare that you're not going to use that kind of statement publicly anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u86	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Senator, Every child, regardless of where he comes from and the situation in which his case arises, I approach him with great empathy and always defend his position and that he should be brought up properly. Moral judgment issues regarding different aspects of life... They're based on natural law, too. That's part of my business, too. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senators, at the request of the Senator of the Civic Platform, Mr. Bogdan Zdrojewski, in the absence of opposition from the House, we have closed the list of senators asking questions. I would very much ask you to respect your colleague's request in this regard. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u89	No, no. We all respect that, Mr. Marshal. I was just asking, and now I'm asking. [[Yes, sir.]] My question was clear, Mr. Ombudsman. Are you prepared to declare that you will no longer use this form in public?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Senator, I was referring to moral aspects, not children, not humans, because I'm going to give you an example. It can be a buckle that tightens this topic, very well showing the situation in the field of child protection. What else is the origin of life. This aspect... It is very important that moral issues are also indicated here, because they shape us as people, and we are raising our children to right people. What example will I give? I'll tell you what case I'm on, what case I'm on. She's very important because of the baby's situation. Well, there's a little boy, a few months old, whose case has already been brought before the court, because his parents can't figure out who's gonna raise him and who he's gonna be with. As it turns out, the baby's mom has ideas... mom's a homosexual, dad's a homosexual. They said they agreed that this baby would be born in vitro, and now they're fighting about it. We're about to have four parents on this case. And who do you want to give that baby to, that little boy? These are the dilemmas I'm gonna deal with and I'm gonna struggle with. The situation of this child, this child, shows that these most important things No matter how conceived, they are very close to me. I will fight for this child so that, High Izbo, we may raise our children for good and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u91	Like I said, that was the last question. I inform you that the Child Rights Officer, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Alicia Chybicka, Senator Jolanta Hibner, Senator Benjamin Godyla and Senator... That's all. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS has no luck with the spokespersons he pushes and appoints. Do you remember the Gummies case and the charge that the Gummies fairy tale is a hidden promotion of homosexuality? [[Teletubis.]] [[Teletubis.]] Excuse me, Teletubis. Do you remember the case of the Teletubs that you brought in by the child's spokesperson, Eve Sowińska? It was a clear plea. The teletubs were supposed to promote homosexuality among children through television. Do you remember what happened about it? Remember that storm? Quite right, because such views and such accusations were and are outrageous. I remind you of that because Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, has done the same thing. That was a statement from which the spokesperson should withdraw immediately, apologize. And the comment said that in schools in Poznań educators are spreading some drugs to change sex among children. And that was the statement. I read it thoroughly. I have this statement before me, and there is no doubt that you have said it. And instead of getting out of it, you're still going on. There's an open letter about the rights of the child in the materials that have been given to us. It's basically an open letter about your views. What are the views? These are extreme views. These are fundamentalistic ideas. You may have such views, but your institution cannot have such views. This institution should be an objective institution. Not that you think that your authorship institution can be an ideological institution that introduces your personal ideology, which you may have, into the functioning of an ombudsman's right to a child. You write in this open letter that no political correctness will prevent you from acting; that no force, even the most noble slogans on the banners, no wise man appearing in the most popular television stations and quoted by the largest portals will cause you to think differently; that no government, no organization, no environment, even the most influential and rich, will force you to do nothing; that no action, no fashion, no protests will cause you to deviate from the path you have chosen. Lost ideologies, false ideas, reckless conduct of heard opinions I would like to stress this last point, because you have just done so when talking about distributing pharmacological drugs in schools in Poznań. Mr. Ombudsman, this ideological relationship also shows your assessment of the in vitro method. You say you don't stigmatize if you don't talk about children. All right. But if you say it's a wicked method, then you stigmatize not only families but also children. I know the situation that one of the senators had two children in vitro, and it wasn't from our club or our environment. And I know how he felt, and I know how his wife felt, who I had contact with. You write very widely... However, this report is a report which is rather strange to me. In this report, you put your letters to various offices. In this report, you introduce and quote intensibly questionnaire forms, your surveys, on 10 pages. I'd like to... You should quote the results of these surveys. But there are poll forms on 10 pages. On 26 pages, you're listing your honorary patrons. In other reports, I read the reports of institutions which are obliged to present such reports, I have not met with such reports. Does it matter how many honorary patrons you gave? And was that any effort on your part? And what are the results of your actions on family, criminal and minor matters? These results are quoted. Applications for exceptional remedies. It's about bringing in the cassation. Taken into account: 1. There are no grounds for this. 9. As I understand it, the point is that the applications have been rejected because of the lack of grounds. Cassation complaint. You've filed seven of these complaints in total. There is no basis for this. 7. Submission of an emergency complaint. A total of nine such complaints. There are no grounds for this. 9. So that's the result of 0. Mr. Ombudsperson, if you bring a complaint And this is a serious matter. Either the cassation or the emergency or the cassation, well, in cases that should have reason to believe that this complaint should be accepted. I think you're using the method you used after the storm that caused your speech. You covered yourself up because you applied to the D.A.'s office. What will be the result? Probably the same. So I repeat once again: you may have your views, and it is good that you have your views. But as a spokesman, you should represent the views of all Poles. And you should be acting on behalf of those who raise the children you're defending. Your views make you do more harm than good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u93	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Spokesman! Thank you very much, Mr Spokesperson, for your year-round work, for this 2019 report, and thank you to the entire Ombudsman's office, all those people you have talked about here. I have already submitted these thanks at the joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Family Affairs, but here again, especially after the words of my previous speaker... I must say that, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and of the Committee on Family Affairs, these thanks were provided, if you would say so, from both sides of the room. That doesn't mean there were no comments, no criticisms, no questions, but thank you were. I think that's what honesty is all about, to thank you for your efforts, to thank you for a lot of good, but also to point out mistakes or mistakes. So in life it is that if we take action, then not everything always works, and not every idea that works, we like it. And that is also democracy, that there is this feedback loop, which corrects it, shows... It is often the case that taking action alone... The effect of this action is not always intended by him, because there are simply many circumstances. There is no doubt that this is an important activity. I had the opportunity to participate in the bill on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights. It was 1998, 1999 of the last century. And I have to say that we had 2 concerns at the time. The first was whether the Ombudsman and his office would not focus too much on intervention, which is extremely absorbing and temporary, and emotionally, neglecting general speeches, i.e. action to defend this good which is, and to expand this good, which is, by creating for it, legal, but also any other, financial, economic, educational conditions. The second concern that accompanied us at the time was whether this office would cause a tendency to oppose children to parents or not to disrupt these relationships, or whether this call to the spokesperson was a danger. I thank the Ombudsman very much that, despite numerous interventions, you attach great importance to defending the existing good, which is reflected in the general speeches. I have to say, in this area, I will always be sick of it. I believe that this is an extremely important and necessary activity. From the words you spoke and at the committee meeting, and today, it appears that you are very committed to intervention. You also said that these interventions are experiences that are a source of inspiration for general speeches. I understand that. Thank you for that. Maintaining these proportions is particularly important, especially since the capacity of the office is also limited. Thank you so much for defending the family. We know that every child develops best in the family, even if this family is difficult and this family needs help, for the sake of the child. We know that sometimes this help is very simple. Today may be a little different, but when I was very close to these things... In the case of unemployment or alcoholism, it was easy to help, and the cases ended up in court, ex-convicts, that went on... As I said, any action can raise reservations, not always everything is great, but beyond the legitimate criticism there is a lot of unjustified attack on the person of your spokesman, on the office. That's too bad. That's too bad. We would like at least children's cases to be under special protection so that they are subject to a certain social agreement. I thank the Ombudsman here for his efforts to defend his life. I understand that actions must always be carried out here at least two-trackly in the legal dimension, but also in an ethical or social dimension. I don't know... I miss the good word here. Here you need a calm, patient effort, you need conversations, translations, helping. The right of parents to raise children. This is very important. There was a dilemma here. Marshal Borusewicz presented the situation in which a child 15-, 16-year-old... if a parent wants to raise a child consciously and effectively, he must enter into dialogue with him. The warrants don't work here. Anyone who's been doing this knows that. If a parent wants to be ineffective, he's being silly. If he wants to be effective, he must respect the child, he must enter into dialogue. The subjectivity of a young man or a girl is at all the basis of dialogue and relationships. Here, of course, the role of associations, youth organisations is huge. I am pleased that we attach great importance to this in our country. I must say that there is still one thing that has not been discussed either at committee meetings or here, during the speech of your spokesperson and asking questions. These are Polish declarations to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In 1991, when the convention was ratified, Poland submitted 2 reservations and 2 declarations. Reservations were withdrawn in 2013, but the declarations are. It's about the role of family, the role of parents in parenting. These are very expandable records. It is beautiful that we as Poland, the inspirational author of the Convention on the Rights of the Child... the word about this good law, the model in the world... Poland has made such declarations. Now we have many new phenomena, we have new threats of the 21st century. There is the Internet, there are cyber threats, as well as cultural threats. I don't want to get into this anymore. These are difficult subjects. They need a lot of peace, a lot of conversation. First of all, I'd say... I don't mean to sound trivial, but I'm begging you to get the kids out of these experiments if someone has to take care of them. There are also difficult international issues. For all this, thank you very, very much. There was talk of patronages. In the previous statements, patronages were also mentioned, so that I would not criticize it very much. Is this the place? That's another thing. There's also a question of an image of this activity. I understand that such patronages involve entering social dialogue. Right? It's not just a tag, it's not just a sticker. Mr Ombudsperson, I wish you a lot of strength and sensitivity, which we had the opportunity to learn today and in a joint committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I've had the honor of being on the honorary committee with your predecessor, Mark Michalak. After reading the 2019 report, I must say that you are very far from what Marek Michalak was doing. He loved children most of all. The baby was the most important thing to him. It is for me, too. Why am I saying this? I've been working with kids for 45 years, and I think I know kids like nobody. Besides my own, I've met different children, different colors of skin or creeds. I have my own confession, too. But you can't distance yourself from what you think. And you, as the spokesperson for the rights of the child, should be in that position. Think only of the child, stand always on his watch, think of the children as much as possible. Under my care in Cape Hope fights for his life many children And born thanks to in vitro, and born naturally, and children adopted from families like this or other... But it doesn't matter, and it shouldn't matter to you. You should be like a lion to protect children and, above all, love them. It's a report you wrote. I've studied them. It's cold, it's cold, it's just facts. You've certainly worked hard, but there's no warmth at all, no heart for children. For you, family is important... And for you, the most important thing in this family must be a child, not a whole family. Of course a child who isn't born in a pathological family where his father drinks, beats and hurts that a child who has a proper family... But you can't be responsible for the whole world. You can't fix your family. You're supposed to protect the child's welfare, and that's all you're gonna fight for. And from this report you have presented, it is not coming. That's why I'm glad you said you'd be handling all the children's business. The notes that we talked about today, I'm not gonna talk about. But I've written down at least a few of these points and requests to you, which I think you must urgently arrange. Make it... Did you do anything to get the kids vaccinated against the flu? I want to inoculate my three grandkids tomorrow, but I can't because the flu vaccine is gone. And I want to add as a pediatrician about a 45-year-old internship that this is the best moment for vaccination, because once the infection comes, you will not be allowed to vaccinate a sick child. So, in a minute, when these vaccines are here, As we heard here yesterday from Senator Kraska, it will be at the end of September It'll be too late. Did you get the kids a priority to get them vaccinated here and right now? And other children, disabled, etc.? Second, please love your children. That's what I told you. But also do everything to make them happy. If you forcefully change their disposition... what frightened me in this report is that the parent has the right to lead the child as he wishes. Does that mean that if the parent wants the child to be an engineer, even though he plays in his soul. Painting and singing, is that how it's supposed to be? No, the child is a small man and this little man has the right to create his future, from the smallest, and you must help him, not disturb him. Follow Janusz Korczak's footsteps. He was a very wise man who loved children very much. And his predecessor, Mark Michalak, who was just like Janusz Korczak. And in fact, your ideology, your own thoughts, your own position you must submit to the welfare of the child if you want to be a good advocate of the rights of the child and match Mark Michalak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u98	Thank you very much... Can't hear me. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I don't know if you can hear me... [[You're on, Senator.]] Good. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Spokesman! I didn't ask you questions consciously, because I was a little afraid of your answers, remembering your previous interviews and lightness, or rather the recklessness with which you speak your thoughts and views, and they become as if immediately such a frightening testimony of the reality in which you move, and which unfortunately And you need to know that. It is diametrically different from the world in which we all live and function. I do not want and will not duplicate the words, opinions or declarations you have made, which have gone into the world and which unfortunately disqualify you from the moment you became an ombudsman. They are always widely commented and unfortunately do not allow you to be treated. seriously or with due respect. But that's not what I want to talk about right now, it's how much damage you're doing. Everything you say, and part of the things you do. Those for whom you have been appointed. I need you. It's been said today that the office you're in, or the mission you're about to carry out, needs peace and quiet. It's really important. And most strongly should be heard the voices of concern for the youngest, for our children and young people, i.e. those who most need support and support in us, adults, and unfortunately need support in your office most. I talked about silence, peace, gentleness, but at the same time it must be accompanied by uncompromising, courageous action in the service of all children and our young people. And that's what it should be, that's all it should be for your daily work. And I would like to stress this more strongly that our young people, our children, are truly aware of their rights. Of course, they also know about their responsibilities, and we are proud of it. But they also know about all this because they have done a lot of work and put a lot of effort into parents, schools, teachers, NGOs to equip children and young people with this awareness, in this courage, also with great wisdom. And that's because they're aware of that, we adults are more ashamed of them when they listen to what you're saying, and they see some of your behavior or actions as an ombudsman. We are also wondering whether after this time of your office, after everything that has happened in this position, children and young people still have faith that you will find such values as justice, responsibility for words, honesty, or can have unwavering faith in what Prof. Alice Chybicka also said, that you will find protection for each of them, regardless of the color of the skin, regardless of sexual orientation or worldview. I think that in them, in children and young people, this faith is unfortunately less and less, when they hear about everything that is happening around your position, your office is happening. And we adults, especially us here, don't think we have that kind of delusion anymore. But I'll tell you one last thing, there's only one thing left to believe in us. I hope so, and I believe that the embarrassment that, unfortunately, should accompany you after everything you say, what you do, how you act, will allow you It's a shame, the thoughts that result from it, draw conclusions and bring reflection. And there should be only one reflection: you should understand that the extremely responsible, difficult and unique mission of serving children is not the mission that you should continue with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to settle a completely different matter than what was the main concern of my colleagues today. There's no doubt about it. And I think what I'm about to say should be very close to you in your position. In view of the welfare of the child, and here you will probably share my opinion, it should be brought up in the full family in which the father and the mother are, and if there is such misfortune that they are separated, divorced or separated, then if the court decides on the basis of the testimony of witnesses, loved ones, on the basis of what they will say, possibly after hearing the child, there is no doubt that if the court decides that the child should have access to each parent, including the one with whom he does not reside, it is the child's welfare. It is our duty to ensure that a parent whose doubts are in question or that a child is bullied that contact with him is a trauma to the family... There are laws that allow us to enforce the separation of such a parent. Here we go. But as for this first case, since the child's best interests are to have contact with the parent, we should have laws that allow us to enforce contact with the parent who, as it turns out, does not live with the child. The Senate, in its previous term of office, developed such an opportunity above the party divisions, it was our initiative, which was based on a petition. We were already behind on the petition committee and were working on the Legislative Commission. And what did you say then? 'Cause I'm afraid you're here for this committee meeting. You said, "There's nothing to hide 'cause you came here to promote a solution that came from the Ministry of Justice." I was also involved in the work on the government project, which is what you said, and I am happy to stress that it has already gone to the Sejm. And further, I ask you to consider focusing on our project, which has a real opportunity to be carried out by the legislative process and which, to the greatest extent possible, will improve the situation of many children. And you missed the truth twice. Firstly, there was no guarantee in this project that the parent who holds the judgment of the court would be able to enforce, better and harder to enforce, his right to see the child. Secondly, on the basis of your statement, our project, joint, Law and Justice, the Civic Platform, the senators of these two groups, unfortunately was blocked by Mr. Marshal Karczewski, who said that, since there is such a declaration and a government, and you, we need to address this comprehensive project, which, according to your words, is already completed in the Sejm and which will be conducted by a legislative path. And where is this project? What did you do during your term of office to make this project appear? Why'd you lock it up? For your own ambitions, because you wanted the project you were working on, as you claimed, to be the one that would allow you to get your chest out for the award? Where's the project? I'm asking. We're working on the same project again today. I have here a letter to you concerning this project addressed to Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Polish Senate Legislative Commission, in which you do not leave the dry thread on this project and you say not to proceed with it. I'll remind you what you said last year at the committee meeting. I quote you: "So that as for the conclusions... Of course, it is not my role to submit proposals to the High Commission, but it is a request to lean on the complexity of the solutions relating to alternate care and all other ideas that have been able to materialise in the form of 2 projects in recent months and years, 2 good projects, but one much wider one. So that's when you said that this project was a good project, just a narrower one, and now you're writing, again giving the same opinion that it's unacceptable. If you could be careful, Mr. Spokesman, for a second... Can you? Thank you very much. I'd like to know when you were serious and when you were joking. So that project, the same one that's today, was good a year ago, only narrower, and right now it's bad? And I'm waiting for the answer to the question of when your better and wider reporter. Because you haven't done anything about it in a year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! 10 days ago, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, in a TVN24 edition of Konrad Piasecki, stated that we were letting educators into 20,000 schools and that we would not guarantee that they would not introduce such content as in Poznań, for example, that they would capture a child who was unstable, neglected, to whom they gave some drugs to change his sex without the knowledge and consent of parents and doctors. That sentence is not true. In Poznań, sexual educators do not teach classes with children in schools. During sexual education classes that teachers carry out, no drugs are given away. The only thing a man of honor should do in the face of such a lie is quickly correct and apologize. The Lord, despite numerous calls, today calls of senators in this room, and earlier calls of the authorities of the city of Poznań, did not do so. I would therefore like to inform the High House of 2 cases. Firstly, that I have spoken to Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, with a letter in which I ask whether the prosecution will deal with the criminal insinuations of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child who may fulfil the signs of the crimes enshrined in the article. 212 of the Penal Code: who asks another person or group of persons for such conduct or qualities that may humiliate her in public opinion or expose her to a loss of trust... If he is doing so in the media, he is punishable by imprisonment or imprisonment for a year. In my view, it is very useful for the prosecution to examine whether we are dealing with this type of crime. Secondly, also in connection with your earlier, equally scandalous statements, such as: I think that the in vitro method, thanks to which tens of thousands of Poles live, is wicked, that you are a constitutionally-enforced, high state function, but you are not an impartial, knowledge-based and law-enhanced high official of our country, but an obsessed ideological war soldier who uses false information, such as that in which you spoke about my city, about Poznan. That is why I consider this as a cognizant, as a senator representing Poznań and as a father of four children. Every day longer, in which you have this honorable function, is an insult not only to common sense, but also to the legal order of the Republic of Poland. You should be removed from this function as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Senators! I have a problem with your role as Minister Nicholas Pawlak for two reasons, and I really have great respect for her. I took care of this years ago that the original law, which you spoke about, Professor Wind, and in which you were preparing the Senator was involved, would equip the Ombudsman of the rights of the child with the appropriate instruments for this function, which would allow the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, a full citizen of our country, only the non-voter, before the temptations, the desire not to respect these rights by adults. This was supposed to be a function, and this is what it is supposed to be, independent of the current rulers. Can a person who is dependent on rulers be independent of them? He can't. That's why it's my inquisitive and critical, very critical look at the issue of lack of qualifications, the fulfilment of those statutory standards, which imposed on the candidate for the Ombudsman of children's rights the Act on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights... Mr. Lawyer of these standards, these criteria were not met. And you knew that. You've been missing five years with or for children. There were no years of work, you couldn't prove them. The Sejm with the ruling majority today and the Senate with the governing majority in the previous term have turned a blind eye to this, they said, "That's okay." The criteria apply to a person who would apply for the position of head of a school or any workplace. The first stage, at least that's the way it is in education... If the documents submitted by candidates do not meet the standards, they do not indicate that the eligibility conditions are met, such candidates shall not proceed to the next stage. It didn't happen here, and you were called against the law. If you were a doctor, I wouldn't be picking on you like that, but you're a lawyer. You knew you didn't meet those requirements. Can you stand today, so to speak, by bass and say to the government: a loved one, a child who is 14 or 15 years old and works 40 hours a week... this is no education reform. No, you can't say that because you're afraid and you're addicted to those who called you in spite of your lack of competence. Can you tell the government: 'Yes, I am going to take a firm stand on the side of the children who have been born through the in vitro method, because they are full citizens. If anyone from the government, the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Education, tries to stigmatize these children, I'll stand up for them. Are you gonna say that? No, you won't, because you're addicted to lack of fulfillment... the original sin has been committed. Can you speak openly today about the need to distinguish between spanking and beating? The clap doesn't leave any marks on the record, says the lawyer who needs to know the article. 961 banning the use of physical punishment against children. The gentleman reminiscent of his father's spankings. Are you in line with the views of the ruling majority today? Yes, you're in agreement. Are you in accordance with the letter of the law resulting from the family code and the welfare code? No, you're not in agreement with her. Can I believe you, sir, that, following my statement, I quote an open letter that is starting your report. The attempts to resist nature most often end in disaster. The history of humanity knows many of the devastating effects of social experiments, extreme ideologies or attempts to build new societies. The fundamental laws of nature cannot be overthrown. No government, no organization, no environment, not even the most influential and rich, will force me to participate in social engineering. And who's doing it today? Who disagrees with the fact that the right of a child is primarily the right to be raised by their own biological parents, and the responsibility of parents is to raise their own children? Who disagrees with this in Poland? Who doesn't think family is a basic social cell? You declare here: as a spokesperson for the rights of the child, the rights clearly and unambiguously set out in the laws that have been in force for years in our country, I will make it clear that the child has the right to be raised in the family. He has the right to be raised in the family. I will tell you more: the law on family support and foster care says that since 1 January 2019 no child under the age of 10 is entitled to stay in institutional foster care. What did we do about it? I'm also speaking for myself right now. Previous year, previous year and previous year... Just as you did not fulfil your reporting obligations, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy does not fulfil the reporting obligation for the provisions we applied in 2011. What did you do? By reporting and speaking of the upbringings of twenty-six proven nursing institutions... At 530 children, 127 children, if I remember correctly, are children under the age of seven. That's what you're saying. You have even written to the Minister about this, but nothing will come of it, because in this matter the system needs to be changed. Did you, in this case, defend your family by defending children's rights to grow up, if not biologically, at least in a foster family, do anything? No. Why didn't you? Because you're not an independent institution. You are not an independent ruler from today. Mr Ombudsperson, I do not know why you write that the meaning of the laws is that all members of the community must comply with those rights. I agree with that. But you continue to write like this: no ideology will turn me away from the way of obeying the law. I ask that you observe these rights and do not forget that in vitro methods are not prohibited in Poland. It's unfunded by public funds, but it's not banned. It's forbidden by law to beat children. If you had observed these standards, all that you have written in this report would have been more credible, but since you do not respect these standards, this report, regardless of the number of truths raised, has a fundamental flaw for me: it does not preserve the principles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u105	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. To be honest, 23 years I am a parliamentarian, and for the first time in my life, I have a difficulty speaking in terms of evaluating a person, and therefore my attitude towards that person, which has a high public function, because everything we know about the views and attitudes of the civilization values that are close to us is, of course, the relations and views of the Ombudsman. He's arguing with the ones I confess. Therefore, it would be difficult for me to even consider you as the person who should perform this function. But you do this, and you have a duty to report, and we, even without pleasure, need to get to know him and express our views. The fundamental principle of a government official, a public officer in a civilized country is not only apoliticality and not just an apartness I wouldn't even move it, because it is absolutely obvious But also neutrality, independence and objectivity. And that applies to every clerk. And in the case of people who have functions such as: ombudsman or ombudsman All these standards are even higher. And they have to be. I'm afraid you're in my opinion. Don't be mad. Or be angry, as you say. It does not even meet normal standards in terms of neutrality, independence and objectivity. This has already been said here by the previous speakers, so I, if you don't mind, will leave this thread on the side, because he doesn't seem to raise any doubts to me. This is the case, and there is no need to carry out further trials of evidence, that it is, especially since we do not have an instrument to change your person in this important position. In that case, I would like to raise just a few very practical points, even hoping Like any man for whom hope has some value That maybe in practical matters, not worldview or ideal ones, you can be counted on. Namely, we have lived for several months in Poland, but of course also in Europe and the world, at a very difficult time. During the pandemic. And, of course, it also affects children, even in this section, which I want to sacrifice two sentences, i.e. education. And, first of all, we're dealing with a very difficult situation here, in my opinion. That is, that children, especially the youngest ones who first went to school, encounter extremely stressful situations, such that, without knowing what's going on, they fear today, as I hear from my parents, even sneeze or cough. Because they're afraid that there'll be consequences of a parent's call, referral to solitary etc. It's hard to imagine that children can learn well and think freely when they're under such stress for a few hours at school. I'd like to know... These situations are caused by regulations, standards that he created and imposed on the education system, schools in Poland, including directors, government, minister of national education. I would therefore like to know if you were involved in this matter. Was it consulted with you as the spokesperson for the rights of the child, or were you involved in the preparation of these standards, these standards, these regulations, those procedures which are now to be in schools in Poland... You're nodding. You're not. Well, I'm absolutely amazed. First of all, the government didn't consult you. Secondly, the fact that if you didn't consult, you didn't protest that you didn't get into this consultation alone. After all, a few million children, including the youngest ones I spoke of, went to school for the first time under conditions that might leave a mental profile in their minds, a mental shadow that will remain In some people, there are fewer, but there are some that are more than standardly sensitive and can have a problem with it for many, many years. You talk about examples, you even give the names of the children you used to take care of. And I'd like you to take care of those five million kids who went to school and today, under stress, they operate in these facilities and, instead of sacrificing themselves to education, education, they're afraid to go to the infirmary. 'Cause I've heard that name solitary. Don't hit 'cause someone sneezed because someone coughed. This is an outrageous thing that is happening in schools today, precisely because of the standards and framework of procedures that the government has imposed on education. And that's one thing I'd like to know. If it wasn't consulted with you, if you weren't involved in preparing it, then what are you gonna do about it? It's 9/11, it's been a decade, these kids are stressed, and they should be happy at school and learn in conditions that don't upset them. Another issue, also concerning school and related to the epidemic, i.e. something you might call educational exclusion. We watched it in the so-called. The first phase of the epidemic is because here there really is no first phase, the second phase of the school when the school was closed when the education was remote. There's data, there's hard data, it's not just media reports. A large number of children, especially from low-income, extra-urban families, etc., but also from families in cities, of course, the place here doesn't matter much, couldn't fully carry out their educational duties, because they couldn't afford them financially, technically and technologically. This case will repeat itself. For now, we only have information about dozens of schools on a country-wide scale, i.e. a very small percentage of children who may have a problem with this, but the severity of the epidemic may come back, then the schools will close down, they will go to hybrid work or even remote work, and this problem will come back. And this, when it will not last weeks, only months, let alone months, if it lasts longer, will actually lead to the exclusion of educational large numbers of children. Is that what you're doing? Do you even care? It has nothing to do with sexuality, so I might suspect not, but I'd like to be wrong. True, it's nothing to do with worldview, ideology, beliefs, religion, religion, religion, so maybe it doesn't matter to you, but I think this is the first thing that should count for you. Not who has what creed, not what religion, not how many hours of catechesis are supposed to be, but whether the student has a computer, whether he has wi-fi, whether he has educational advice, whether he will pass to the next class, and then to the next level of education, eventually to college, and he will be a full-fledged and fully-fledged citizen of our country. These are important things, not just things that seem to interest you. But if so, that's the last question: pedophilia. Well, I think she's already involved with some of the views you're presenting. In that case, I would like to know what you have done and, above all, what you will be doing in the future to limit this scandalous phenomenon. Because I'm not an idealist, and I don't think that in a short time, we can put an end to this. My main concern is that we have reports of such crimes, and we do not hear them being prosecuted. There are even an entire environment, and one in particular, which looks like it They are even under legal protection in this country. Is that what you do? Can you give us some examples... And best not examples, because you often do nothing, but there is one example and you use it as evidence that you do something. Can you pass it on to me? I would like you to write this in writing, and I would also like you to answer these particular previous questions. All your actions in every case where you considered that the relevant institutions of power in Poland did not work effectively or at all when it comes to prosecuting paedophile criminals? This is a criminal offense. No one should be excluded from the prosecution, and there are entire professional groups excluded from the prosecution, the entire community excluded from the prosecution. I want to know if this is what you do. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, we're witnessing a rather lively debate about the role of child's spokesperson, Minister Nicholas Pawlak. Here's what I'm gonna say. Let us remind you that the Ombudsman performs his function under the Act on the Ombudsman of the Children's Rights. This law was created as a result of the entry into force of the 1997 Constitution in which the Office of the Ombudsman was incorporated. The Ombudsman's Office, although not as detailed in the Constitution as the Ombudsman's office, is a constitutional body. Let me remind you that the law under which the Minister is acting is the Act of 6 January 2000, which is more than 20 years old. Let me remind you that this law was voted by the parliamentary majority of the day. These were the times of the Coalition of Solidarity and the Union of Freedom. Let me remind you that many of the Freedom Union activists who are currently... There may be few in parliament today, but those who are still in parliament because, although there is no Freedom Union, they are in another group, they supported this law. In this law it is the only one that emphasizes: in Polish law, the only definition of a child that is formulated as follows: the child is a person from conception to the age of eighteen. So that this is not the invention of Law and Justice or the current majority, because this law has been working for a long time. What your spokesperson said was that this office could be performed in authorship is true. Each spokesperson has his personality, he has his professional profile, the baggage of experience with which he comes to this office, but everyone is trying to do the best he can; the predecessors of Minister Nicholas Pawlak did the same. And I have the impression that this discussion has not brought up a substantive issue concerning the area of the Ombudsman's rights, but a layer, let's call it political-ideological, and in this regard we have seen many statements attacking the Minister Nicholas Pawlak here. Please note that it was primarily criticised for its views, for its public statements, but even its opponents acknowledged that a number of important issues were raised in this report. You were accused of doing this office too, let's call it, as a matter of fact, in this legal sense, but it is difficult for the Ombudsman to treat his office artistically and freely. It is simply governed by the law, by the powers it has under the law, and by the scope of its activities, which is directly and directly derived from the Act of 6 January 2000. That's why in this debate... I wouldn't see her in terms of the serious material charges that came out here. Yes, there are certain directions, certain specific priorities, some situation, such as the pandemic with which you have come to collide, other than in the case of the activities of the spokespersons in previous periods, who in turn had other specific and important problems at the time when they performed their function. All of this can be discussed, but in peace and substance. I'd like to protest against us making the constitutional value of freedom of speech... so that we can pervert it somehow. Mr. Spokesman, like Senator Szejnfeld, like you, every senator, has the right to his views and this is guaranteed by the constitution. Not much, he has the right to express these views. If it violates the law, it has consequences, of course, but it has the right to express them. I would like to draw your attention and warn you that in these discussions... In Poland there is an increasing discussion or such, I would say, an ideological-cultural confrontation in the language, in certain aspects of public life, and this unfortunately smells very ugly something, which is often referred to as the terror of political correctness. And unfortunately for our public debate this, let's call it publicistically, the terror of political correctness is increasingly creeping in. Some will soon postulate that there can be no black and white chess verticals, because it may be racist, and various absurdities, I will not quote them here, to which political correctness leads. This problem was brought to the attention of none other than one of the guru leftist American intellectuals. Noam Chomsky. There is a famous appeal of 150 intellectuals published in the July 2020 magazine Harper's, under which outside Chomsky signed, among others. Salman Rushdie, Mrs Rowling, author of Harry Potter, Francis Fukuyama, very fashionable of his time in liberal or left-liberal environments, and many other intellectuals, writers and well-known figures of public life. In the special interview he gave, Chomsky asked by a journalist why he signed this appeal, even though he had such a leftist opinion, he replied: "Levice suppresses every dialogue, it will be disastrous for us. This is the beginning of the birth of a totalitarian new speech. Those are the strong words Noam Chomsky used. The intellectuals in this letter against restricting freedom of expression observe the wave of intolerance and censorship carried by the left. And the signatories to this letter claim that censorship practices concern many well-known forms of contemporary public debate. High Izbo, I would like to point out that whenever the subject of the right to life, family issues, family values, parents' right to raise their children according to their beliefs and belief in the world is present in Poland today, and so there are some constitutional norms described in our constitution, the ideological interpretation of all of this and the attempt to censor, attempt to disqualify or discredit people who have different views than the liberal-left environment. And this is a very dangerous phenomenon, because it also goes into the language of the political debate. And I would just like to point out that, in any assessment of the performance of the various functions, the various areas of activity of the state that we are dealing with as a subject of reflection and lawmaking, these issues are, unfortunately, also creeping into our House and obscuring the picture of reality a little bit. Many classics observed that for ideologists the facts are irrelevant, ideologists are not able to properly recognize and diagnose reality. Ideologists have pre-programmed prescriptions to heal the situation. And what's dangerous is that there's no substantive debate. This is warned by Noam Chomsky and 150 other important forms of public life. I wouldn't want to go into details here, into polemics with the previous speakers. It would take a long time, and, in my opinion, would distort the meaning of my speech. I would like to appeal to the High House to focus on the merits. If you have indeed violated the Act on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, etc., then of course this should be criticised. But the point is that we should not use this information for ideological and political purposes in the debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Hibner, Godyla, Gadawa, Sekuła and Brejza have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Child Rights Ombudsman, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll refer to facts, specifics, as usual. Because as for political views, it was my pre-choice views that no one knew in the public debate that appeared, exactly the opposite of that of Mr. Adam Bodnar, who before choosing very brightly This can be found in one of the pre-choice journals The left-wing views were clearly defined, including the fact that he was speaking for whom he was voting. I'm not afraid of criticism. Criticism, this honest, fact-based and true assertions, is building up, mobilizing to protect the rights of the child and to work honestly. And this dishonest, manipulative one, it actually confirms me that I'm taking the right direction. Allow me to address some of the precise, detailed issues that Senator Szejnfeld and Senator Szejnfeld were talking about. Maybe first of all, these educational issues and my participation in various kinds of legislative activities, the recognition of children's problems, for example in 2020 related to the education system. It was after my general speech at the beginning of the pandemic and after the first closing of schools that the child care provision was issued. First the younger ones, then the older ones and those with disabilities. Who had to stay at home with carers. It's after my intervention now, at the end of August, just before the beginning of the school year under new conditions... We all have concerns, but we all hope and we all realize the law, the duty to learn, because we all know that it is necessary in this form. It's after my intervention, after my speech... I pointed out in this speech the particular situation of these children, from all over this huge group of several million of our Polish children, who are at risk because of their diseases, such as asthma, or because they live with their grandparents, with the elderly, i.e. those who are at risk in a pandemic era. And it caused a very rapid reaction, and it's already being considered, because it hasn't been seen before. It was a specific activity, it was some simplification, for example, so that there would be no need for health care to allow remote work in such situations. It was also thanks to my speeches. Another case, the beginning of the year, the pandemic... A big problem, of course, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, related to all children's computer equipment, the Internet. I pointed that out right away. As soon as the programs appeared and in the first throw 180 million zlotys, later, it seems, about 140 million zlotys... Well over PLN 300 million were allocated directly to municipalities, procedures were simplified. In a few days, a few weeks... I personally called the mayors, mayors, presidents to use the money because some people didn't know about it. And they bought several dozens of thousands of computers for children, they were quickly handed over so that children in families, where there are several children at home and at one time have lessons, could benefit from it. And it was happening. Tens of thousands of computers, iPads, routers were destined for this. What's more, to back up, even from my office, I've handed over a dozen computers... I wanted as much support as I could... so that they wouldn't lie unused, unnecessary, because the system currently used at work at the office couldn't handle... I even handed over computers like this. It's a specific activity here, now, but also a general one that supported the system and pointed out places that the minister didn't know about, didn't notice, didn't make it or planned later... It's a specific activity. As for the family law projects that Senator Pociej was talking about... the projects that I participated in at any stage in my creation aren't mine, I don't take credit for it. All of this is designed to make it easier for children, in fact, to keep their conduct shorter so that their children do not feel the problems involved. As for the project from last year, the question is, where is he... I think, for example, the Seym transcripts show that he was already after second reading. There wasn't enough time in that term. Yes, I even performed, right before the election, to take care of this project at this additional meeting. What's more, that project... Your senator isn't here... That project, as far as I know, is just like most of the children's rights projects in recent terms that have been adopted unanimously... And that project in the Lower House, in the Seym, even gained the voices of the opposition. Mr Myrcha seems to have said I'll quote from you, please forgive me. Good projects are coming to your attention. This was the case with the proposal to reform family law, which included immediate maintenance. I was hoping that this would come into force, which is also what the publishers of comments on family law were counting on. In one of the publications, they thought it would come into force by October, and they made a comment. So there's a commentary on a bill that doesn't yet apply, because everyone thought that Parliament would be able to deliver it. So that I constantly urge this, even in June and May of this year, I asked that family law reform projects be implemented. I will answer the remaining questions and issues to the High House and to the Senators in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u111	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate has taken note of the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm calling a 20-minute recess until 1:16 p.m.... [[Voice from the room: 20 minutes?]] 20 minutes off, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] It's 1:15, I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] After the vote. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 56 to 13 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u112	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 29 and 30 September 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate Committee. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 199. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs at its meeting yesterday unanimously decided to recommend the Senate to adopt a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate Committee. I'll read the draft resolution. Senat of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses from the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Jacek Bury, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Stanisław Karczewski, Senator Maria Koc, Senator Józef Łyczak, Senator Robert Mątów, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, Senator Mark Pęk, Senator Wojciech Piecha, Senator Zdzisław Pupa and Senator Rafał Ślusar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? [[Talking in the O.R.]] From the administrative staff, I would like to ask them to turn on the cameras remotely, as is provided in the instructions, so that you can be seen. [[Mr. Marshal, may I speak on this matter?]] I'm sorry, I can't hear... [[Mr. Marshal asked if anyone wanted to speak on this matter...]] Yes... [[Well, I'd like to.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u115	I would just like to express my regret at the fact that so many excellent senators are leaving such an important committee. Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: And we really regret the president...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, I think that this committee will be one of the brightest points among our committees, especially on matters of interest to the younger generation, i.e. on climate issues. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted in favour, 94 votes against, no one against, one abstention. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 193 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present the report of the committee and then, as also the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. You're welcome, Senator Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Commission was sitting on 11 September, which is today, and recommends that the High Senate adopt the law together with the amendments. Amendments 1, 3, 5, 7, 15, 16, 18, 22 During the committee meeting, 2 minority proposals were tabled concerning amendments 9 and 10. A minority of committees propose voting in favour of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? And they were pleno titulo senators Wojciech Necessary, Krzysztof Brejza and Alexander Pociej. So we proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. I'd like to suggest... As the Senator rapporteur said, Amendments 1, 3, 5, 7, 15, 16, 18, 22, 24, 37, 42, 44, 47 and 48 are legislative and editorial and can be voted together. If I don't hear any objections, we'll vote on them together. I therefore propose that we vote on the package of these amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But you guys are in the eye, normally...]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet, please.]] [[I'm loud bad, quiet bad...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We appreciate you smiling at last.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But I can hear everything...]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, congratulations, congratulations...]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2 seeks to waive the exemption provided for by the Act from the beneficiaries of support for those tourism organisers who were entered in the relevant register after 7 March 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 47 votes against, 46 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 4 seeks to modify the method of calculating the levy paid by the tourism organiser for the Tourism Aid Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 6 seeks to clarify that the organiser of tourism receives reimbursement of payments and fees paid to the Tourist Aid Fund if his request for support was left unrecognized. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 8 seeks to complete the catalogue of data reported by the organiser of the tourism and the traveller in case they submit requests for support. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 95 votes against and one abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 9 seeks to establish the basis for the collection of the data required to submit a complete request for support by the tourism organiser if it does not have such data. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 votes against, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 10 seeks to clarify that the tourism organiser's request for support is dealt with in respect of the individual travellers shown in that request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 49 votes against, 47 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 11 seeks to lay down the principle that the 180-day period from the date of notification by the traveller of the cancellation of the package agreement or the notice of termination of the package agreement by the tourism organiser shall be suspended from the date on which the traveler receives this information from the tourism organiser until the date of submission of the request for payment by the traveller. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Attention, amendments 12 and 21 should be voted on together. These amendments seek to delete the rules providing for the exclusion of the liability of the Insurance Guarantee Fund and persons acting on its behalf with due care for the damage caused by the incorrect implementation of the payments provided for in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 13 seeks to modify the rules for obtaining data by the Insurance Guarantee Fund in order to carry out statutory tasks, including the scope of such data. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 14 seeks to establish an absolute order for the deletion of personal data collected by the Insurance Guarantee Fund to carry out statutory tasks which are no longer required in relation to the stated objective. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 were in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 17 seeks to ensure the substantive consistency of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 93 were in favour, no one opposed, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 19 seeks to establish an alternative condition for the mobilisation of payments from the Tourist Aid Fund to the organisers of tourism. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 20 seeks to establish a standard whereby the organiser of the tourism and the traveller submit an application for payment before the end of the deadline for reimbursement by the organiser of the tourism to the traveller of the fees and payments incurred. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Attention, Amendment 25 will rule out voting on Amendments 26 and 29. This amendment aims to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of the additional parking benefit and to reduce from 80% to 50% the reduction in income from their activities as a requirement to obtain this benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 91 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 26 seeks to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of the additional parking benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 27 seeks to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of the additional parking benefit to those involved in film screening activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 28 aims to reduce from 80% to 75% the degree of reduction of revenues from the activity as a requirement to obtain an additional parking benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 91 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 29 seeks to waive the rules providing for the exclusion from the scope of the Law of Public Procurement in respect of service or supply contracts awarded by the Social Security Office in connection with the implementation of the tasks relating to the establishment of the law or payment of additional parking benefits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Attention, amendments 30 and 35 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments precludes voting on amendments Nos 31 and 34, 36 and 38 and 40. Amendments 30 and 35 seek to extend the scope of the beneficiaries' exemption from the obligation to pay contributions due, to extend the period of that exemption to 31 December 2020 and to reduce from 80% to 50% the reduction in revenues from their activities as a requirement of that exemption. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 2 for, 92 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 31 seeks to extend the scope of the beneficiaries' exemption from the obligation to pay the contributions due. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 49 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Attention, voting on Amendments 32, 36, 39 and 40 only if amendments 30 and 35 are rejected. These amendments should be voted on together. They aim to extend the exemption period until 30 September 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 91 for, 5 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Attention, the vote on Amendments 33 and 38 must also be taken together. These amendments aim to reduce from 80% to 75% the degree of reduction in income from the activity as a requirement for exemption from the obligation to pay the premiums due. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 34 seeks to extend the scope of the beneficiaries' exemption from the obligation to pay the contributions due to them to film projection operators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 41 seeks to allow the adoption of resolutions by collegial professional authorities, as well as their implementing bodies and other internal bodies using means of direct distance or circular communication. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 94 for, 0 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 45 seeks to modify the entry into force of the added provision in the so-called '. The covid bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 46 seeks a substantively coherent determination of the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 were against, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Senate, following the second reading of the bill, sent the draft to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and obliged the committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 198 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present an additional report to the committee. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The additional report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation from the meeting held today: the committee requests that the draft resolution of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation be submitted for further proceding and supports the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 in the compilation of the proposal, i.e. the amendments tabled by Magdalena Kochan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. Would Senator Magdalena Kochan still like to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place... Let's give the rapporteur a chance to come back... Yes, yes, yes, we will give the senator the rapporteur a chance to return. Before we vote, Mr. Secretary, he'll be back in time. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. "Print No 198 X'followed by the adoption of the draft from print No 198 in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. As we can see, the rapporteur is returning to his room. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Attention, amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to extend the scope of the proposed law to persons subject to whom on the basis of the so-called law. The covid act introduced less favourable conditions for employment than those resulting from the basis for establishing an employment relationship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The Commission proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Wojciech Piecha to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wojciech Piecha to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees and the Law on the Management of Real Estates. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 194 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u121	Thank you very much. High Izbo, the joint committees recommend that the bill be adopted with all amendments except amendments 2 and 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Wojciech Necessary still want to speak? No. So we proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 introduces the possibility for a tenant to be regarded as a party to proceedings by the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 2 aims to remove from the provision an indeterminate refund liable to give rise to interpretation doubts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 3 were in favour, 92 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Attention, amendments 3 and 20 should be voted on together. These amendments are of a clearer nature and make a correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 were in favour, with one abstention, no one opposed. [[Voting No 39]] Attention, amendments 4 and 5 should also be voted on together. These amendments aim to extend the catalogue of decisions of the Commission, the effect of which is the obligation to take over property on the board by the capital city of Warsaw, also aimed at exempting the capital city of Warsaw from property liability vis-à-vis the owner of the building for the acquisition and management of the building, as well as introducing a statutory guarantee of consequences for the management of the capital city of Warsaw or the Treasury after the Commission's decisions on reprivatisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 6 aims to extend the catalogue of public objectives in the Real Estate Management Act to cover housing needs by entities with public housing resources. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 6 were in favour, 90 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 7 clarifies the provision in order to extend it also to claims for the transfer of land ownership, which is acceptable if the Decree proposal is taken into account after 1 January 2019 and concerns land built for housing purposes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 were in favour, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 8 aims to clarify the provision by indicating that the grounds for refusing to land in perpetual use are that the tenant will occupy the premises on the basis of a contract concluded with the municipality or the Treasury, excluding single-family housing, in order to enable them to be returned. The amendment introduces the possibility to notify the parties of the decisions of the body by means of a notice on the BIP website and leads to uniform rules for non-refunding property regardless of the procedure for submitting the application. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] Attention, amendments 10, 11 and 13 should be voted on together. Those amendments are designed to remove from the Real Estate Management Act grounds for refusing to land in perpetual use and to clarify that refusal to put land, parts of land, buildings or their components into permanent use may take place where the grounds for refusal relate to an area of not less than 50% land, building or component parts thereof, the area of which is not less than 50% the total area of the land, or where the grounds for refusing to land in perpetual use relate to a smaller part of the land, the building or its components, but it is not possible to divide the land. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 10 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 12 aims to amend the drafting process in order to eliminate interpretation doubts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 14 provides the basis for the remission of the decree procedure in part if it is not possible to establish the parties to the proceedings or their addresses. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 49 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Attention, amendments 15 and 16 should be voted on together. These amendments specify the provisions of the Act, indicating clearly that the grounds for the remission of the decree procedure are in place if the parties to the proceedings have not been established and not the applicant's. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 17 aims to delete the provision which constitutes the basis for refusing to give the land in perpetual use by reason of the acquisition of a claim from the curator unduly established, from the curator of the succession or in breach of the inheritance provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 47 for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 18 introduces a provision preventing the reopening of proceedings in which the final decision of the Authority was issued before or after 27 May 1990. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 47 against, 47 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] The amendment didn't get the majority. Amendment 19 introduces a provision in the Real Estate Management Act imposing an obligation on the State Treasury to compensate for the consequences of expropriations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 21 aims to introduce into the Act a provision which requires the State Treasury to take over liabilities and claims arising from the Commission's decisions on the reprivatisation of Warsaw real estate issued before the date of entry into force of the Act imposing an obligation to reimburse undue benefits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 48 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 22 lays down the principle that a decision on a case which has been decommitted by law will not be subject to a complaint. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 96 in favour, no one was against and no one held back. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 23 aims to allow the right to compensation or compensation to be transferred on the basis of the Commission's decision to reprivatise Warsaw real estate to legal successors who died. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] We are now voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one against, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 55]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain Rights of Workers and the Act on Real Estate Management. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 160 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission considered 4 amendments that were tabled during the second reading. The amendments were specific in nature to the provisions of the Act and were recommended by the committees, assessed positively, as well as of course the entire draft law. I would also like to say from the responsibility of the rapporteur that during the meeting of the 2 Joint Committees, the interpellation which Mr Andrzej Duda, the current President, addressed in 2013 to the then government, in which Mr Andrzej Duda called for changes to be made in this draft law. So that I think that, although late, this postulate is being implemented, which I recommend the attention of all my fellow senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u124	Senator Mark Borowski still has the floor as Senator of the applicant. I understand the senator has already spoken. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. Print No 160 X and then over the adoption of the project in its entirety, Print No 160 S corrected, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Note: Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. These amendments align the deadline for submitting the pension application referred to in the Act and clarify the group of pensioners benefiting from the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 49 votes against, no one opposed, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 3 clarifies the group of insured persons covered by the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 49 in favour, no one opposed, 45 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 4 extends the deadline for the decision by the Social Insurance Institution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 were in favour, no one opposed, 47 senators abstained. [[Voting No 58]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 49 votes against and one vote against and 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 15th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Let me remind you that statements can't last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters discussed in the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? The first to make a statement is Senator Krzysztof Brejza, remotely. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The case concerns the activities in the district and the circumstances of one of the road accidents notified to me, a terrible accident which took place on 11 August 2019. Four young people were killed in the forest in Miradz in the municipality of Strzelno, and the youngest victim was 17 years old. And what these young people's parents have experienced is horrible, because it was not only dramatic information about leaving under horrible circumstances, but Imagine that. After this incident, photos of the victims and the car began to appear on the Internet, taken by an unknown person, and through Facebook, various messages began to be sent through the communicator from the profiles of these young people. I know that the District Attorney's Office in Mogilno was involved in this case, but what happened is beyond human understanding. In connection with this case, I sent a senator's intervention to the Minister of Justice, raising the problem of publishing photographs of road traffic accident victims, because the accident in Miradz is the most drastic example of this type of practice, scandalous, but the problem is wider, because drastic photographs of accident victims are published many times on the Polish Internet. This case is not governed by law, and from this point on I would like to appeal both to the Minister of Justice and to the Prime Minister to take such legislative action, which will result in the creation of a draft law to implement such outrageous practices as we are dealing with. At the same time, I would like to strengthen the call for regulation of this, the prohibition in the law of violating family goods and such mocking of road accidents victims. I would like to point out that in 2020. The Germans have seen this problem, there have been changes in criminal law, and it is now a crime to record traffic accidents and publish photos of victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u126	Thank you very much. The statement is made by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to address my statement to the Minister of Agriculture. It concerns the activities of the branch of the National Centre for Agricultural Support in Koszalin. This is the case that since the creation of these institutions on a national scale, people who are responsible for them are persons directly related to the PiS, members of the PiS, also in the case of Koszalin. And I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture if he has any idea what's going on there, what's going on in the institutions under KOWR Koszalin. Exactly what I'm talking about is an ex-horse farm in White Bora. This stud had a tenant, and this lease was spoken by a PiS activist, the current director, Mr Nieckarz. They were introduced there for a time in a non-negotiable way, without any other person's mode. This person had property that was unlawfully occupied by the tenant. This property is now being returned, after years in fact, with the loss and exposure of the State Treasury to gigantic compensation. Things are going on in court. The consequences that will be borne by the State Treasury are already hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions of zlotys. Similarly, unclear circumstances concern the free disposal of the land managed by KOWR Koszalin. One example is the sale of agricultural property which took place in a sub-unit in Świdwin. In turn, another PiS activist, perhaps even the councilwoman of PiS in Świdwin or the district of Świdwiński, sold land to her husband, also to the activist of PiS, who owned the land without agreement, and in accordance with the procedures concerning the agricultural land of the State Treasury, the person who makes use of the agricultural land without agreement cannot be a buyer of the land. Despite the fact that Director Nieckarz knew this very well, the notary act was concluded, the sale of this land took place. I could list a lot more examples, I could mention just one, maybe two. Another example is the disposal of land in the municipality of Mielno, exactly in Mielno, directly by the sea. This applies to so-called. plot gardens. And it is easy to guess that the land in Mielno is highly attractive and very expensive. There's a fitting over there. Perhaps even this has already been done to sell these properties in a non-transferable manner to persons who do not really have any legal basis and right. And it's another exposure of the Treasury to giant losses. Another example, the last one, concerning the water company, which KOWR Koszalin finances, this water company also manages... She has recently been established and managed by people associated with the PiS. All of this together makes the circumstances of this branch very unclear. I therefore ask the Minister of Agriculture to carry out a detailed check on the disposal of agricultural property and property that this branch in Koszalin manages, and I request that the consequences be drawn against those who have committed such scandalous omissions. I would also like to ask the Minister for Agriculture to inform him of the action taken on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. At the moment, you will be making a statement by Senator Marek Plura, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current year, 2020 there is a century of establishment by the Legislative Sejm of the Republic of Poland of the organic statute of the Śląskie voivodship, i.e. the so-called. Silesian autonomy. This document can undoubtedly be regarded as an outstanding achievement of Polish parliamentarianism. The idea of Silesian autonomy fits into the best traditions of multicultural Poland, which we know from the Jagiellonian times. Although the project of autonomy of the Śląskie voivodship was created 100 years ago, the vast majority of its solutions remain the current model of mature, responsible self-government and the reason for the progress of decentralisation and empowerment of citizens. I will therefore remind you that autonomy had its own parliament, the Silesian Sejm, which was the legislative authority of the region, while the executive power was the Silesian Voivodeship Council. The Śląski Sejm's competence included all laws related to the area of the voivodship, e.g. in the field of education, police, water, agriculture, religions, the organisation of regional and local administration. Foreign policy and defence were the domain of national authorities. Local taxes were created by the Silesian Treasury, which transferred funds according to the established algorithm to the central budget, but did not transfer funds for defence. The Silesian province began to function in reality in 1922, after the signing of the peace treaty in Geneva. It was the best developed and richest region of the Second Republic of Poland. The influence from Silesia was an economic fuel building up Poland. The Silesian Autonomy was abolished by the National Council by a Constitutional Act in 1945. This Act was unlawfully adopted. Nevertheless, this derogatory rule of law continues to this day. I believe that this passive acceptance of communist lawlessness taunts the majesty of the Republic of Poland. The achievements and traditions of Silesian autonomy are still alive among the indigenous inhabitants of Upper Silesia, even though for 40 years of the People's Republic of Poland they were oppressed and even exterminated. Initially, it was treated as an anti-proletarian element of capitalist oppression, and then all references to Silesian autonomy were treated with irony! It's an act of German revisionism. It is with great pain to admit that in modern Poland we are also dealing with manifestations of this type of anti-Silesian propaganda and manipulation, that I will mention even the well-known statement by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński about the cloaked German option in Silesia. Despite many Upper Silesian persecutions, the Upper Silesian people managed to re-establish the autonomy of their region, both in the cultural and historical sphere of the Upper Silesian Union. As well as in the political and self-government sphere, which is the domain of the Silesian Autonomy Movement. At this point I thank everyone, thanks to whom the achievements of autonomy of the Śląskie voivodship survived not only as one of the values of regional tradition and identity, but also as a pearl in the crown of Polish parliamentarianism. At the same time, I appeal to the High Senate to commemorate the corresponding resolution of the century of the first meeting of the Sejm of Silesia, which will be held on 10 October 2022. This date can also be symbolically regarded as the century of the inclusion of Upper Silesia in the Republic. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u130	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski is about to make his statement. Just allow me to mention before the senator speaks that a significant number of statements have been made to the minutes. I'll name names. The statements were made by Senator Gawłowski 4 statements, Senator Gorgon-Komor 2, Senator Tyszkiewicz 3 by Ryszard Świlski, Wiktor Durlak, Senator Libicki 5 statements, Senator Karczewski, Senator Józef Zając 2 statements, Senator Frankiewicz, Senator Kopiczko 2 statements, Senator Szejnfeld 2 statements, Senator Szwed, together with Senator Kwiatkowski and Tyszkiewicz 3 statements, Krzysztof Brejza 5 statements, Robert Dowhan 2 statements, Jerzy Wcisła, Benjamin Godyla, Jan Maria Jackowski 2 statements, once again Krzysztof Brejza and Wojciech Necessity. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am addressing my statement today to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Kaminski. Dear Minister, You're directly overseeing the voivodship's work. They are the main entities implementing the Act of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of organisational units, auxiliary units of municipalities, buildings, objects and public utility devices and monuments. I have already asked the President of the IPN, Mr Jarosław Shark, and his reply to my statement suggested that I repeat them to the voivods who directly implement the law decommunising public space. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following specific questions. First, how many street names and possibly object names were incompatible with the law, on the scale of the country and individual voivodships, by the entry into force of the law? If the Minister had more details, e.g. broken down by county or municipality, I would also ask for their presentation and transmission in the form of written annexes, possibly in a file. The second question is the same question, but concerning monuments and other symbolic commemorations. Question three. How many street names and possibly other objects have been changed to legal and definitive names? Please provide a summary of the details as in the case of the first question. Question four is the same question, but concerning monuments and other symbolic commemorations. Question five. How many street names and possibly other objects have not been changed to legal names, or is it still valid during the change process? Details like before. The sixth question is the same question, but concerning monuments and other symbolic commemorations. Question seven, recapitulative. What were the main reasons for the failure to implement the law in the various cases mentioned in paragraphs 5 and 6? I am talking about shortcomings in the text of the law, the obstruction of municipalities or other units of local government or other obliged entities, judicial practice in judgment, etc. Please provide detailed descriptions of the specific cases of behaviour of the municipalities and descriptions of the sites indicated. And eight. How does the Minister assess the operation of this law? Whether, and if so, what, could still be changed, whether in the text of the law itself, or in practice its application, in order to achieve the overall achievement of its objective, i.e. complete and permanent removal from the Polish public space of names of streets and other objects and monuments and other symbolic commemorations promoting communism or other totalitarian system? With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-11-senat-15-2.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 15th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office of the Senate's work room 255. The 15th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 32]]
