ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Dear Senators, located in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with a vote aimed solely at establishing the list of senators attending the meeting. I see there's more people in the hallway than there is in the room. We'll wait three more minutes. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There you go, Mr. Senator. I'm gonna need a remote screen. I'm gonna need this on my screen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish the list of senators taking part in the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 73 senators voted and this number is currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 82]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 190 and the report of the Commission In print No 190 A. I would remind you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 195. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. This means that after the report, the Senator rapporteur will vote. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. This becomes a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on accession to second reading means that a project is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure, i.e. in normal mode. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to take the floor and present the report of the committee and the request of the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, print No 195.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. If you don't mind, I'll speak from the spot. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with real satisfaction that I must say that the Senate remembered the activists of the anti-communist opposition not only this year, when we are updating the 2015 Act, which was a legislative act... This act came out of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and today, after 5 years of operation of the Act, the government Their pension benefits rise to PLN 2 000 400. This is the main assumption of the law, although it also includes a delegation to the head of the combatant's office concerning the commission of care services to combatants, including anti-communist opposition activists, non-governmental organizations. There is also a proposal for transport discounts, 50% in the case of public transport and 51% in the case of national communications. The members of the committee unanimously supported this law. We recognize that on the eve of the 40th anniversary of August events we owe it to this social group. According to the report submitted by Minister Stanisław Szwed, presenting this bill, 9 000 people will be covered by this service. During the meeting, or actually before him, the activists coordinating the initiative to introduce other amendments to this law, Mr Leszek Stall and Mr Jarosław Goliszewski, submitted a draft law prepared by Mr Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas and, as a rule, approved by Professor Tomasz Siemietkowski from the legal side, a project which complements this government submission with very important and important things. You know, sitting in prison, ban on work, a wolf ticket that prevented you from working in your profession... Such repression has affected many of these activists. The time spent in prison has been considered by the legislator as the period considered as an internship needed to obtain a pension, but at the same time this period is converted with a zero conversion factor. We found in the committee that this submission and this project, which repaires this state of affairs and according to which the government will cover the social security costs, which today is converted by a zero conversion, up to the national average in force during a given period, during which such a person was not working or in prison, was in any event affected by repression... This proposal goes beyond the scope of the law, as the legislators have pointed out. However, we felt that it was so right that it needed to be done in the art mode. 69 introduce into the bill and say together: our beloved opponents, thanks to you we have free Poland, we remember that the time you spent affected by repression should and must be included in the dimension of your pension. And one more thing that's been added. This is Mr Kazimierz Kiżewski's initiative, which pointed out that in a situation where an opposition activist affected by the low income, as we know, goes to a social assistance home because his family is unable to provide him with proper care... In such a situation, according to the Polish regulations, the activist covers part of the cost of staying with his own benefits, and the missing difference between the actual costs and what he pays is covered by either his family or the municipality from which he comes. We felt it was right to demand that the costs of such a person's stay be covered entirely by the Veterans' Office. These are 2 changes that go beyond the statutory submission that we want to introduce under Article. 69. I must say that, in the case of this initiative, the committee, by a majority of 5 votes in favour and three senators abstained from voting... The Commission recommends that the High House adopt the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Before we come to the questions, which last no more than one minute, to the Senator of the rapporteur, let me welcome the representatives of the government who have come here on this point, namely the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Swed, and Mr Jan Józef Kasprzyk from the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No. I would remind you that after hearing the request, the Senate will decide to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. We proceed to the vote on the inclusion of the item on the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's in favour? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 76 against, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has completed the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act and the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons. This will be the 21st item on the agenda. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws, namely the original text of the Act, because additions become a separate legislative act. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I think that at a time when we are considering such an important law on anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed, it is still worth adding to the words that the President said as rapporteur for the committee, to our government's position. The project is government, but on the initiative of... I have the head of the Office for Combatants and Workers with me, Mr.John Józef Kasprzyk. We know that this environment has been working very hard to ensure that we somehow regulate the pension issues of both the oppressed and the anti-communist opposition. In recent years We have made a great effort to prepare solutions for both veterans and veterans to improve their situation. Hence the veteran add-on and the veteran add-on. Today's government proposal aims to provide compensation for anti-communist opposition activists and repressed persons whose pension benefit is less than PLN 2 000 400. We know that during communism, during the opposition, many people lost their jobs because of repression, were fired from work, could not continue their work or even be harassed by dismissal or reduction of wages. In many cases, these people had no chance of earning an adequate pension. Hence the initiative of both the anti-communist opposition groups and the Council on Repressed Persons, which operates at the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to introduce such a solution. We've proposed a solution that's going to be about... At the moment, the most recent data tells us about a group of about 13,000 800 people. This is the number of people who have confirmed the status of anti-communist opposition activist or repressed person. We estimate that about 10,000 people will be able to benefit from this right. This compensation will cover the difference between their current pension and the amount of PLN 2 000 400. In this respect, it will be linked to a pension or pension. This applies both to the general system and to the agricultural system, but also to the pension scheme of uniformed services. This bill will allow about 10,000 people to benefit from this right. This will be the right granted at the request of the person being repressed. The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons cooperates closely with the organisations that deal with these issues, so there will be no problem with informing them. In this law we have proposed 3 additional solutions. The first is an opportunity to benefit from a 50% reduction in public transport. In the case of national public transport journeys, this will be a 51-percent reduction. We also enabled the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to commission non-governmental organisations to carry out caring tasks for activists of the communist opposition. In cases where they are not entitled to a pension, they will also be able to report them for health insurance and to pay contributions for them. These are the major changes. We estimate that the total cost of the state budget, in terms of this compensation, will be PLN 62 million. I think this is the moment when we can say that we are somehow trying to make amends to those who have fought for our freedom and to correct the harm that has affected them during the repression that lasted from 1956 to 1989. Well, that's the period we're covering. The earlier periods shall be governed by another law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Before we proceed with any further questions to the representative of the government, I would like to inform you that the formal motion for a vote on the raise resolution was submitted by Senator Gaweda, who for technical reasons did not vote on the resolution. I will not put this proposal to the vote because of Article. 56 of our Rules of Procedure make it clear that it is only possible to resume the vote if an obvious error is revealed in the previously adopted resolution. Senator Gazwada, please contact the head of the firm, Minister of Germany. Computerists who will verify the technical problems are ready to issue you an appropriate statement after the investment has been completed. We're going to ask questions. Are there any questions for a government representative? If not, I'll open it... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Czerwinski...]] Excuse me, senator. I didn't see you as a powerful figure of the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Well, let's not exaggerate.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this procedure, the application procedure was adopted, but these are generally older people who may have problems with, I would call it, the formulation of such a proposal. Would it not be possible to adopt a procedure in which this would have been granted ex officio, on the initiative of the Office. These people are identified, so it would be a quicker solution. After all, you have these people on your base.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u7	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! After discussions with the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, as well as with the organisations who sought this benefit, the discussion on this solution lasted for several months, and we know that the associations are well informed about this process. If we were to introduce, so to speak, these benefits without a motion, it might turn out that some people would be left out, because maybe we are not able to reach all of them. That's why it's our decision to make it on request. Most people do, but it's not said that we know about all the people involved. There will also be a broad information campaign of the Veterans' Office, and this is also discussed in our debates. It must also be taken into account that in this group of 13,000 800 people, here I have the latest data from Minister Kasprzyk. There is a group of about 4 000 people who do not yet have pension rights. After all, NSZZ activists will not yet be subject to this, but we know that they may be subject in the next place, in case of retirement age, and then they will have to apply for a supplement if their pension is less than PLN 2 000 400, although this amount will also be changed, because the amount of PLN 2 000 400 will be valued annually, as pension benefits, i.e. it will increase annually.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u9	Minister, thank you for the extremely necessary initiative. I agree that not everyone will make such proposals, e.g. former activists of the Fighting Youth Federation who worked in secondary schools. They won't need it at all, because later they worked in a normal way that allowed them to pay off their contributions. But you represent the government, we have a senate initiative, which is extremely necessary, because it meets the expectations of former democratic opposition activists, and I would like to ask the Minister what your personal position is on this issue, and could you already presume that you should expect to be quick I don't assume it's any other way. The government's positive position on the Senate's legislative initiative. Because, in fact, a situation in which this period is classified as a formal pension right, but without counting this period as a contribution, it is a curial situation, kind of like giving something to these activists, but not quite. And the question is: should the government expect a positive opinion on the Senate legislative initiative and can the Minister support the dialogue with the Speaker of the Sejm as soon as possible to direct this project to further legislative work as it goes from the Senate to the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u10	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The initiative was set up in the committee yesterday so that I can't deal directly with it. Of course, during the discussion and during the presentation of this project by opposition activists, we discussed this issue. The simplest solution proposed here seems to be the transfer of aid to social assistance homes, but there is one fundamental difference. In the bill, which we changed two years ago or three years ago, about veterans, we introduced a solution that this surcharge is on the side of the local government, because social aid units, social services houses are local government units. Here is the proposal for these subsidies to be carried out by the Veterans' Office, which I understand is through subsidies from the state budget for this action. Of course, the system that operates in Poland today is that 70% The person who is in the social services home is paid by the person who does not apply to this group and it is worth leaning over here. It would also be worth considering how to do this to be the same, which is if the Veterans Act refers to the fact that it is financed by local governments, here also in such a way, or the other way... This is the first thing to discuss. It's harder when it comes to counting. There is a proposal for recounting, recalculating periods when the person was working. We're taking some kind of average. It is certainly worth considering, on the occasion of this proposal, the issue that we will decide on today, i.e. compensatory provision. We have determined here the amount of PLN 2 000 400. There should be a balance here, so that we don't make any group stand out again. So it's an open topic. This system that the senator was talking about was introduced a few years ago, and I am talking a little bit more about the pension system, and this zero rate was due to the fact that in many companies the records of people who paid contributions disappeared. And in order to qualify for this retirement period, the solution was that it's classified, but no contributions, because there was no way to prove... It was without a contribution, if by the court, witnesses did not prove what greatness it was. And it was done for this group. This is the case throughout the system, and it also worked here, in the system concerning people being repressed. It's worth thinking about. Today we can't even estimate it. And you didn't estimate what kind of group it would be. But, like I said, it's a little harder than that. It is worth to lean on it, and it can also look more widely, not only at those who are being repressed, but also at veterans, which is to look at it in general from the point of view of the pension system. So much for short, so to speak, I can keep up with you after yesterday's discussion. But the initiative is as worthy of attention and consideration as any initiative that helps those who are oppressed, veterans or combatants. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u12	Thank you. I'm sorry to ask you again, Minister, because a little bit... mostly you've reassured me, but one piece of your answer has bothered me. You were talking about a system of aid for these stays of former repressed persons, former democratic opposition activists by the local government. The NIK audits show that where these subsidies are made by a local authority, the decision-making process is sometimes longer, especially in smaller municipalities, where there are limited financial resources. In this case, the democratic opposition activists fought for independent Poland, not the independent commune of Brójka or Koziełów, so I would like to ask you about your position here. As your representative... Otherwise, are you personally, as Secretary of State in the Ministry, in favour of such a position that these subsidies should be from the state budget or from the budget of local government units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This system is, so to speak, a duplication of the universal system. And today, in the general system, if someone gives a person to a social worker's home, he pays his own money or pays a family extra if there is a maintenance obligation and it exceeds income. If this is not the case, the difference is paid by the municipality. It's worth thinking about. I would be in favour of the solution that if there was a decision, it would be the means that go through the Veterans' Office, or the whole thing goes the other way. So I'm not gonna answer that question directly right now, whether it's on one side or on the other. If we were to talk about the fact that the resources for all activists, veterans and opposition activists are on the side of the Veterans' Office, then we would have to have the resources provided for this task in the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u15	Minister, do you know of situations in which the municipality does not want or cannot pay to place a participant in a social assistance home fighting for democracy and independence? If you don't know, I'll say I know the situation. The poor municipality is unable to pay to another guest house. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[That's the difference, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u16	Please, Senator... [[I said what I said.]] Mr. Marshal asked the Minister a question. I think the Minister can handle that question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u17	As I have already said, in replying to Senator Kwiatkowski here, veterans or those who are being repressed have the priority today in receiving social assistance homes. And this surcharge is on the government side today. That's how it works all over the system. If there is such a case I didn't get that kind of information, but maybe there are examples, I don't know about it. It really is reprehensible, because it should be paid. We also know that we are talking about a certain group of people. In one local government of these people there may be more, because there was a more numerous community of opposition activists, and in another place it would be a single person. So that each case can be completely different. For many, many years, the construction is that the surcharge in this regard comes from the local government, i.e. if we reverse it, we would have to look at the whole system that works.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u18	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just saying thank you, of course. For the Minister, for the head of the Veterans' Office for this legislative initiative, extremely needed And with such a sad conclusion that when it comes to certain summaries, when we look at how much we owe, it reminds us of words that we owe so much to so few. We are talking here about thousands of democratic opposition activists who later met certain repressions related to the loss of their jobs or their stay in internment camps or prisons. Let us also not forget those who stayed in the so-called. Military camps, I mean the chelmian community, which also suffered certain consequences of its earlier political choices. I just want to point out a few minor elements. There are municipalities. And at this point we would like to publicly commend them, although I will no longer mention them, where for those of the former democratic opposition, the local government itself on its own initiative launches a system of reliefs to public transport, urban transport more than 50% relief. However, this is not in a collision, because of course the local government itself can pay for such journeys. At this point, I will ask again and I will urge the government to approach the Senate's legislative initiative as kindly as possible. After these discussions, which I had with representatives of the opposition community, former NZS activists, the chelmian community, I know that this project is very expected, needed. However, the Senate legislative initiative complementing the government initiative in those areas that required this addition is also expected and needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll see if I can be heard. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: You are audible, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This is not the first initiative on people being repressed and imprisoned from the anti-communist opposition, which is expected by this environment. It is worth recalling and emphasizing that the Senate has already done a lot in this regard, because during the term of the 20112015 term we were the authors of the first solution for this environment, long-awaited by this environment, I will say simply: too long awaited by those who risked their lives, put their health at risk and left their careers aside to fight for free, democratic and legal Poland. We owed them that responsibility, and we did it in that term of office. It is also worth remembering that it was an initiative of both political blocks, and the Civic Platform, and the PiS. We acted unanimously on this matter. It is therefore very desirable that this government initiative should also be supplemented unanimously by what the committee expects or what the committee requests. Therefore, with all our strength, with all our heart, and with reasonableness, we should support this initiative. Those who were oppressed for free Poland were in prisons, in internment camps, from this Poland, which the Senate represents, should receive proper benefits. I strongly support this supplement, which is reported by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Benjamin Godyla made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm listening, Mr. Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a request that today between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. there will be an adjournment for the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u24	If I don't hear the voices of the opposition... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is there an objection? [[I...]] Yes? Is the senator objecting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u25	Maybe not so much an objection as a request to make this break a little shorter, at least half an hour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u26	Are you able to agree on the length of the break, or do we have to proceed to the vote?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u27	Mrs. Marshal, I'm gonna withdraw this motion for now. I will meet with Mr Martynowski and then submit a negotiated proposal. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u28	Yes, ma'am, I'm asking you to... then, after the next point, I'm gonna order a five-minute break so you can clarify that. Okay? Thank you very much. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We'll proceed with the examination... Oh, I closed the discussion, but one more thing... The senator knocked me out of my rhythm. [[I'm sorry.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act and the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 195. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this draft law. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present the bill. [[I'm sorry, Marshal, but I'm not the rapporteur.]] Excuse me, Senator. In the script, I have it exactly like that. Who of the senators is the committee's rapporteur? [[Oh, I'm so sorry. I thought your marshal was... sorry. That's what happens when you do two things at the same time and you don't listen to a marshal.]] So you're the rapporteur? [[I'm here. It is about the initiative resulting from the Article. 69?]] Yeah, that's right. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we've already discussed the government presentation. In the case of the previous point, I said why we considered it important to complement the government's submission to correct the irregularity that we believe exists here. It is based on the fact that the internship of work needed to obtain a pension includes the period when the person who was repressed was in prison, was banned from working, she was given the so-called. The wolf ticket was internated and at the same time it is considered that the conversion rate by which the time is calculated is zero. Well, zero multiplied by any number always gives zero. Therefore, at the request of opposition groups, which not only requested this, but also submitted a proposal for a bill to the committee... I have already mentioned this initiative by Mr Leszek Stall and Mr Jarosław Goliszewski. The author of the changes recorded in the project is Mr Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas, and from the legal side he looked after everything and accepted the whole of Prof. Tomasz Siemiątkowski. We decided on the committee that this was really important, and the Senacci legislators helped us translate it into legislation. We are talking about the fact that contributions for the period during which the person was in prison or suffered the repression that I mentioned just now should be subject to the national average in a given year, at a given time when the person was being repressed, as defined by the Central Statistical Office. There's probably gonna be a little bit of trouble with counting, 'cause you have to approach each one of them very individually. Exact time, months, years... This has to be converted into the average that was in force during the given period, and the amounts that are paid into social security, the pension insurance transferred to the account of that person. And that's the government's job. We thought that this should be done from the state budget. On this point, there were no votes against, the majority of the committee voted in favour and three senators abstained. And the second part of that bill. If the person we are talking about, who is the subject of this bill, goes to the welfare home, then this is the system: 70% her own salary is spent on the cost of living in a social assistance home, and the remaining difference is covered first by her family, and most often by the lack of wealth. She's burdened with such responsibilities. If the person does not have a family, the cost of this stay will be complemented by the municipality's own resources. We felt that all those who contributed to the recovery of the free country had the right to expect that the cost of such care in the welfare home would be covered by the budget of the Veterans' Office. And this is the second part of our submission, also adopted by a majority like before. I request that the High House accept these 2 additions, which, out of the scope of the Act and have been adopted in accordance with the Article. 69, which is in accordance with the principles of correct legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have already answered Senator Kwiatkowski's questions, so that, of course, we are not here at this moment... We cannot state the official position of the government. But the initiative, I think, is going in the right direction and in the Seym we will work on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u33	Mrs. Marshal, I'm gonna have to let myself out of the way because... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Here you go, of course.]] ...I'll be very brief. We in our Polish history... Unfortunately, we have this story often written in oblivion about heroes, and it is such an institutional oblivion. ♪ 'Cause when you look at history ♪ Now we all live in the events of 1920 for how Poland forgot the soldiers of the Blue Army General Haller, volunteers from the United States, Brazil, Canada, leaving their efforts completely without any institutional memory... We remember the story of Gen. Maczek, who worked as a bartender at a hotel in Edinburgh. All the more reason to be glad that today Parliament is proceding these 2 draft laws, and to hope that they will be adopted as soon as possible. Because it's such an institutional thank you on our part for those who have done so much for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u35	Sorry to rip you off again, but I would like to say that after long negotiations with Senator Martynowski, I repeat my request for a recess between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u36	Between the hour... Does any of your senators object? I think that if there have already been negotiations with the President, then no. So I don't think there's any objection. So this break will be announced between 11:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. After the break, I understand, there will be a vote. So that's what I'm telling you. So at 1:00... Of course, if by 11:00 p.m., which is until lunchtime, we will complete the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 192 and the report of the Commission In print No 192 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal sent the bill we are currently talking about to the Committee on Culture and Media on 17 August. At its meeting on 17 August, the Commission discussed and discussed this law. The bill was passed in the Seym on 14 August. Of course, we cannot like such a fast legislative path. It resulted in some comments on the formal side of the project, and we have been assured by the Ministry that this will be improved. But in view of the social importance of both creators and artistic institutions, NGOs and businesses waiting for this bill, the committee decided that we would submit it to the Senate in such a unique hurry. The committee's decision was unanimous. So that I ask the High Senate to pass the attached bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u38	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I would just like to ask if the representatives of the government spoke at the committee's meeting when this regulation would appear to be able to apply for funds. Because immediately it's such an imprecise term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u40	Yeah, we talked about that. Yeah, it's a date. The law enters into force at the beginning of September, so that this regulation will have to be. It is actually ready, so that the Ministry will already be able to distribute these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u41	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? The bill was introduced by Members. There is a representative of the government, Minister Paweł Lewandowski. Welcome. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No need.]] Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If a government representative hasn't spoken, then the senators, I think, won't ask the government representative. Unless someone wants to ask a question. No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u42	High Senate! I would like to say a few words concerning not so much the formal proceedings of the committee meeting as the law itself. On the one hand, I would like to express my regret that we are doing this so late. We have already asked for rapid adoption of support at committee meetings. The epidemic has been going on for a long time and some creators are already at the limit of social endurance. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for the fact that this fund has been launched. He's going to be close to PLN 425 million, that's a lot of money. I would like to remind you that so far, such a programme, which was launched by the Ministry, was a programme that concerned culture in the network during the pandemic. That was 20 million zlotys. So that the amount allocated by the Minister of Culture must be impressive. It's very important too. I'd like to stress that and commend it for that. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we discussed, among others. the situation of the event industry environment, and there were meetings at the Ministry... This industry, this part has been included in this law. We are talking about a financial support fund for creators and artists due to the situation caused by the COVID epidemic. It'll be social aid. The support fund for local artistic institutions, NGOs and cultural enterprises is also being launched. This is very important and this is the first such case. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that culture produces about 2% GDP. When we talk about culture, we see that of course these benefits for the Polish economy are important, but also the value of culture in itself is important. We can't forget that. The situation of both artists and creators of all cultural industries, e.g. film or event, as a result of the epidemic, has become one of the worst in many years. As we know, festivals have ceased to be organized, cultural tourism has stopped, museums, galleries, institutions have been closed, the film industry has ceased to operate for some time, silent music. At that time, the Internet was actually the only way, the only way for creators to look at themselves. This is, of course, the issue of the situation of the entire artistic environment, which is largely pre-circumcised. This is an environment that is often employed on garbage contracts, works contracts, etc. This also applies to various cultural industries. I would like to say that the money that has now been spent by the Ministry for the creators, for the institutions, is particularly important at this time. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if some industries do not work, this means that they are out of circulation at all. At the meeting of the event committee, we talked very much about representatives of various professions who cannot change. These are not people who can find work elsewhere. I'm sure they could find a job like this, but if they quit their job... Well, some areas, some disciplines may fall forever. The same applies to equipment, often very expensive, very expensive, which is used by technical workers working in cultural industries, often leased equipment. Losing this would probably result in other, richer companies from other countries taking over... At the moment we have such a situation that this field in Poland is developing very well, it is very good, I would say, equipped. It is an industry that is able to manage the organization of the biggest events, that is 30 years of work. The help of the Ministry of Culture... the event industry is somewhere on the border between various industries. The Ministry of Culture took care of this case because these people have been completely out of help. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good gesture from the Ministry. I don't know if that's gonna answer the whole need for help, the whole need for support. - I don't think so. But it will be a very clear sign that we, as legislators and the Ministry of Culture, remember the creators. Of course, the devil is in the details. Unfortunately, we don't know... The Minister has not presented us with a draft regulation. Only after the fruits will we know what this will all look like in practice. I would like to say that I very much believe that these funds will be allocated fairly, that political criteria will not be applied. This kind of solution, the entire fund is launched due to the outbreak of COVID and the related situation of the artistic environment in Poland. This money will go, among other things. to non-governmental organizations dealing with... I'd like to remind you that there are 11,000 of them right now. That's 14%. the whole sector of NGOs. So that's important, too. Not only these organizations, not only companies, but also local cultural institutions... So this is also support for local government. In fact, I am very positive about this solution. As a committee, of course, we will look at the whole issue as soon as we know the content of the regulation and the detailed rules for the allocation of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President has already said everything in general, so I am just from the general to the detail... I would also like to thank you for these resources as director of the museum. I believe that they are essential to this industry. As a museum, we used the program "Culture in the Network," and we applied for the means to make a film called "Culture in the Network." Time travel with Wojciech Korfanty. This, of course, involves, among other things. with a resolution adopted by the Senate on 11 August dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Second Silesian Uprising. I cordially invite you... From tomorrow to 25 August, i.e. for 7 days, as long as 100 years ago the uprising lasted, every day one such film will be placed on our website and on the site of the Silesian Theatre, because we have implemented this project together with the Silesian Theatre. It is also expected from actors, lighting or sounders, as the President said. These measures will indeed be well used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u46	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to modify your request for a recess. As the examination of all the points went faster than we planned, and the Senate is ready to vote, I submit a motion to delete this gap. At 11:00, we'll start voting, and we'll do the club meeting after the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u47	I understand that it is a matter of declaring an adjournment as soon as this item is completed. [[No, no.]] [[After the votes.]] [[At 11:00...]] But we're almost done, this is the last item on the agenda. In two minutes, we'll be done with him, so... [[At 11:00 a.m. vote and then...]] So I'm gonna announce a recess by 11:00. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Are you present in the courtroom... No one objects, and as soon as we're done with this point, I'll order a recess. Yes, Senator? [[I would like to speak on this point.]] But I didn't see you sign up, so... [[I didn't make it, just about the announcement that...]] There you go, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u48	I would just like to remind you, as far as justice is concerned, that we, the senators, have already voted on a form of such assistance in one of the earlier COVID laws. It was aimed not only at the event industry, but mainly at local government officials who incurred costs in preparing various festivals, artistic projects or events, but did not manage to implement them due to the pandemic. At that time, the Senate voted in favour of the amendment whereby the Ministry was to receive certain instruments to help all those who incurred such costs and did not implement their projects. Unfortunately, this amendment, adopted in the Senate, was rejected in the Seym. I would like to remind you that we have thought about the artistic environment much earlier, twice signing here, in the Senate, under such proposals. I'm glad they found a slightly different, more complicated form of help. This solution is not very satisfactory, but it is another tool for this large industry. I will remind you that I recently gave an example of the Review of the Actor Song in Wrocław, an example of the concert that was to take place later, a concert organized by Artur Rojk, an example of problems related to the outdoor projects of the Józefowicz-Stołos duo or an example of projects prepared for June and July, i.e. for a holiday period. Today we can say with satisfaction that we have another tool of assistance, but in order to give justice to all our activities, I remind you that the first such proposals from the Senators of the Civic Coalition appeared already in March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you like to speak again? No. For the record, Senator Krzysztof Brejza made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. In connection with the formal application, I manage the recess by 11 a.m. There will be a vote at 11:00. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 08 to 11 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u50	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 10 and 11 September 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. The agenda of the meetings by the end of the year and even a bit further has also been sent to you electronically or will be sent any moment. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. Ladies and gentlemen, before joining the voting block, we will hold a test vote to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting of the need to click on the "OK" button and then of the need to press the "Transmit" button twice in response to the confirmation question. I'd like to see the remote voters, please. Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted. [[Voting No 84]] And as much as we accept, he's taking part in this part of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate Committee. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 182. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mind if I take a seat? [[There you go.]] The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee at its meeting of 12 August 2020 cancelled by a majority on the basis of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski Also from the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. At the same meeting, the rule committee elected Senator Paweł Arndt to the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u52	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 85]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate Committee. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on juvenile proceedings. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 90 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, 86 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 86]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on proceedings in the case of minors and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Criminal Code. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft law was presented at this meeting and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 163 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Pociej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 47 against, 42 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 87]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the criminal code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Aleksander Pociy to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 189. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 Senators voted 88 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 88]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments Senator's printing No 190 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 89]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act and the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. I would like to remind you that today there was a discussion on the bill presented. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 195. The Commission also proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committee and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and the Act amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 192 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 91]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and on the Act amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 14th sitting has been exhausted. We proceed to the senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make two brief statements. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, on 3 July I received a reply from your ministry to a statement on matters relating to the construction of the channel by measuring. Unfortunately, the answer, although extensive, concerns only 3 out of 6 questions asked. There were no responses to the investment of the Elbląg seaport, although the Ministry in propaganda materials and statements at all times talks about the great benefits that Elbląg will achieve due to the construction of the channel. I therefore ask you to answer the following two questions closely. Will the watercourse in Elbląg seaport be used as part of the construction of the canal by measuring the parameters of the canal? If the channel construction programme does not cover the adaptation of Elbląg port to channel parameters, on what documents is the economic justification for this investment based? Please indicate these documents. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Dear Minister, it's been 10 years since the tragic Smolensk disaster, and it's been five years since the PiS governments are trying to prove that this disaster was the result of the bombing on board the plane. For this purpose he works, consuming public money, a special subcommittee. Unfortunately, apart from willingly repeated clichés and assurances that we are approaching the truth, we do not know any evidence of this thesis, and the achievements of the subcommittee are not subject to any independent verification. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions, which will probably tell you more about where we are than unconfirmed statements. Here are the questions. First. What does the Sub-Committee on the Re-examination of Air Accident do, since the last information on the website of the Sub-Committee comes from 10 September 2018 and the last information from the activities of the Sub-Committee From 8 June 2018? Can I receive information, report, reports on the work of the committee for 2019 and 2020? Two. The information of 8 June 2018 states that numerous parts of the aircraft and the body of at least one of the victims have shown the presence of explosives. Where are the analyses and results available, which are the basis for such wordings? Are they available for verification by independent research and scientific institutions? Third. What budget did the subcommittee have in 2018 and 2019? How'd that money get settled? Can I receive such financial statements? Four. The budget of the subcommittee for 2020 is around PLN 3 million. For what purpose are these measures to be spent? Can I receive the budget estimates of the subcommittee for this year? Fifth. Why hasn't the results of the samples taken during the autopsy of the victims of the Smolensk disaster been announced so far, even though the results of the research have long since reached the national prosecutor's office from foreign laboratories? Let me remind you that exhumations of the corpse and research were undertaken primarily to determine whether there was a bombing on board the aircraft. Has this objective been achieved? Six. What actions did the Polish government take after 2015 to recover the wreckage of an aircraft located in Smolensk? And seven. Nearly exactly 3 years ago, from the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I asked about public allegations of unclear links between Antoni Macierewicz and the Russian side, including the GRU services, with a suggestion that Antoni Macierewicz should be removed from all functions until the charges are clarified. At that time, I was told that a trial was being prepared for the journalist publishing these accusations. The journalist has never come to trial, which makes the accusations against Antoni Macierewicz. Therefore, I ask whether, and if so, on what basis was Antoni Macierewicz cleared of charges. Thank you in advance for the precise but also full answers to the questions asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u54	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to make a statement to Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, Observing the epidemic situation in my constituency, as well as after discussions with local authorities of the Ostrzeszów district, where the most stringent restrictions have been introduced, I feel obliged to raise some key issues. Recognizing the need for action, the local authorities and residents of the district are in many cases concerned by the information chaos and the absence of official regulations or indications appearing on time. In most cases, media coverage was the source of information, while responsibility for extensive activities fell overnight to local governments or entrepreneurs who did not have enough time to prepare for the new situation. It has been known for a long time, as the epidemiologists acknowledged, that there will be a marked increase in disease in the country. At the same time, the government had calming signals of victory over the pandemic. The confusion caused by such conflicting communications also had an impact on reducing preventive and preparatory action to introduce new restrictions, especially in the service sector. Therefore, on behalf of local governments and entrepreneurs, I expect the Prime Minister to answer precisely the question of how the government intends to communicate with local governments so that the actions taken are coordinated and effective. Do you personally or one of the ministers feel responsible for the lack of proper communication, or do you intend to impose the burden of responsibility on the government for any future problems? Finally: what steps the government intends to take to improve the flow of information on the ministry line The local government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-18-senat-14-5.u56	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 14th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 14th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 11 minutes 24]]
