ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 11, - Health at about an hour. 14.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u2	Thank you. There are formal requests. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a recess and a convent of the Senior Convention to complete the agenda for the Left's request, which would be the resolution of our assembly allowing the Prime Minister to bring about a natural disaster. We have time at this meeting to deal with laws that are designed to limit the opportunities and rights of women, we have time to deal with the removal of sexual education, and we do not have time to make one of the most important decisions, if not the most important in recent years, or perhaps a decade, about the introduction of a natural disaster that gives us a sense of security. For many weeks now, the Left has appealed: the elections should not take place on 10 May. We call on you to take care of employee and employee matters. We call for the anti-crisis shields to actually give the business a sense of security. The state of the natural disaster meets all these expectations. I'm asking the marshal to take this formal request into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u4	Thank you, sir. First of all, all I can do is vote for a formal recess if you want. But you said we had time. Well, we don't have time, sir. I would like to explain to all of you once again: citizens' projects are not discounted. From the previous term of office, more than 11 projects, we still have five projects left. Since, unfortunately, there was a coronavirus and an epidemic in the meantime, we had to take care of something more urgent. These projects have therefore accumulated. This is the last time we have to do this, sir. Otherwise, we'd break the Civil Project Prosecution Act, whether they're attracted to people or not. We know that some of them are controversial, but these are citizens' projects and it is our duty to examine them, Mr President. So that there were meetings of the Senior Convention, the Sejm Bureau. Two applications were received by law last night. On the other hand, we will not consider this proposal, except for the request for a break, as requested by the honourable Member. We're gonna vote for a formal recess. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 207 - for, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Even now, a formal proposal - Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u5	God bless and merry Christmas! Happy Hallelujah! Honourable Members! Miss Marshal Honourable! My conclusion is as to the substance of the conclusion contrary to the one that has already been voted out. Circle of the Confederation does not support the procedure which the current parliamentary majority has imposed on the High House, but as opponents of hypocrisy in public life, we would like to urge the Marshal and the parliamentary majority to go further and to put on such important civil projects, projects concerning life, property, health, civilization standards in force in the Republic of Poland, standards of civilization in such a matter as respect for parental rights to proceed so as not to mix, seek the opportunity, not to put it in the parliamentary freezer. Let us move quickly to the second, third reading, to the vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Let us defend the lives, health and property of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u6	Thank you, sir. There was no formal application. A formal proposal - Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Coalition. Please. Request for interruption to complete the agenda. Mr President, the request for a break has already been voted, so I will not put it again to the vote. Use this break you're gonna order to complete the agenda anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I formally request a break and call the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda tomorrow, when you announce a break, to inform the government about the real aid involved in combating the economic impact of the epidemic. We have been hearing for many days, many weeks about the great help that is to be directed to Polish entrepreneurs and employees, we hear about the applications submitted, but in fact this shield is holes. I would like the High House to know the real scale of the aid. I would like to know how much real aid was paid for today, on 15 April, how many Polish employers' applications have been examined for today, how much money has been guaranteed for Poles not to lose their jobs today. We will waste another day on empty, barren discussions while entrepreneurs close their businesses while people lose their jobs. Tomorrow, and even today, we should use this time for Prime Minister Morawiecki (the bell) from this speaker... Thank you, sir. ... He informed us of real help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u8	First of all, I do not think that we are wasting time here for empty and barren discussions, first of all, because we are in the Sejm. Secondly, you know very well that this is not a formal conclusion. We had a Bureau meeting, we had a Senior Convention, and you didn't mention it. No conclusion has been received in this case. I will not put this proposal to the vote because the request for interruption has already been voted on. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (prints No 202 and 251). I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Płonka to submit a report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u9	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Health Committee, to submit a report on the work of the Government's draft law amending the Law on public health benefits and certain other laws which were the subject of the work of the Health Committee on 13 February this year. and was submitted as a report to the High House in print No 251. This law is addressed to all pregnant women who are entitled to free supply of the medicines specified in the list and necessary to satisfy the health needs of the woman and her child. The right to purchase the medicine free of charge is based on a pregnancy from the beginning of its diagnosis, confirmed by a certificate issued by a doctor with the title of a specialist in gynecology and obstetrics or who is in the course of specialization in this field or by a midwife working in primary health care or in a specialist gynecology and obstetrics clinic. Such a certificate shall specify the expected date of birth and shall be valid for up to 15 days from that date, since the Act does not cover the period of birth and childbirth. A prescription with code C, similar to code 75+, issued by a gynaecologist or midwife or another doctor on the basis of a certificate of pregnancy, is the basis for the free delivery of the medicine from a pharmacy or pharmacy. Persons authorised to issue a prescription shall be required to verify through the health information system the quantities and types of medicines prescribed to the patient for the safety of the use of pregnant medicines and medical devices and for the health of the child. The list of medicines will be developed in the form of a sublist containing selected medicines from so-called. a list of the pharmacy's refund notice. The Act sets a maximum limit for the expenditure of the State budget for the period 2020 to 2029, which will be monitored by the Minister of Health. It can be corrected by restrictions on the list of medicines after analysis of the first half-year. The Health Committee shall, after examination and discussion, present to the High House a draft law in the form of a government act, with the exception of the following article. 4 taking into account legal changes concerning the Łukasiewicz Research Network and resulting from the merger of institutes. Hence this article enters into force on 1 April this year, and the whole of the Act - on 1 July this year. Thank you for your attention. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u10	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for presenting the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomas Latos, who will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club on Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion to the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, namely prints No 202 and 251. Ladies and gentlemen! This new law, because I will remind you that there is a 75+ law, is a measure by the government that meets the needs that are being observed when it comes to healthcare in our country. This bill, commonly referred to as the Pregnancy+ Act, is intended to provide access to free medicines for pregnant women. Of course, when it comes to securing supplies of medicines already in bed or during childbirth, it is governed by other laws, other laws. Thank you to the government, thank you to the Minister for preparing and presenting this bill, which we fully support. The rapporteur has made a very broad statement on the issue which is covered by this short law. It is also important that prescription for free medications can be prescribed by different doctors, not only by pregnant doctors, but also by other gynecologists of obstetricians and family doctors. I think that this is an important addition to what has been being done so far in the field of health protection for more than 4 years, but it is also an important addition to social policy programmes that are being implemented in Poland, such as the 500+ programme and many others. Of course, in recent weeks we focus mainly on other types of health care activities, everything is related to the coronavirus, hence the bill, which was originally to be proceded in March, was moved to the beginning of April. Therefore, a correction which I am signalling at the moment, which will be tabled by my club, will be needed in relation to the particular element which the rapporteur has said, Article. 4, i.e. some organisational changes in health care, because this element, this part of the bill, was to enter into force on 1 April. This deadline will have to be corrected for obvious reasons. In February, none of us thought that there would be a situation that we are all facing now, which is the most important one at the moment. However, apart from what the whole of Poland is doing at the moment and what the government is doing, we also need to process further substantive laws and hence, among others. this is today's second reading concerning my so-called. The pregnancy bill plus. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, please accept this bill. I think there will be consensus on this, as will the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u12	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Joński will now speak, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u13	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on which we are debating concerns the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. It includes a proposal to ensure that pregnant women have free access to medicines. The purpose and the idea are, of course, right, but there are many doubts about this bill. In the first place, attention should be paid to the ambiguities. And here I have three questions on this matter addressed to the Minister. First of all, will the patients have secure access to medical devices only to the basic extent? It's written vaguely in the bill, and we have information that it will only be basic medications. Secondly, will the scope of the aid cover all the needs arising from the protection of health, their lives and the lives of their children? And the third, very important question: Will it apply to people, among others. with chronic diseases such as diabetes or cancer, immune-mediated diseases, and those who have to undergo genetic therapy? These are three rather fundamental questions about this project. In medicine, according to the current knowledge, there is a huge amount of diseases and diseases that need to be combated In our view, the possibility of implementing official mechanisms to correct the functioning of the programme, with a view to introducing more specific changes in the implementation of the programme, is incomprehensible. This is in some way a denial of the original idea, which assumes universal access to free medicines for all pregnant women from the moment it is stated until it is completed. This concerns, in particular, the introduction of annual limits on the cash earmarked for this purpose. This assumption could lead to a situation in which, in the middle of the year, there will be no funds for the implementation of the records at this point in time. This will mean that pregnant patients may not make it, colloquially speaking, into some part of the budget for treating their children or their children. It is therefore unacceptable, if such solutions are created, to make action conditional on any limits of the measures. This quarrels with the idea of free and universal access to medicines. It may be expected that patients will need to be treated or given medicines to save the health and life of children in their wombs, i.e. to maintain their pregnancy, which will significantly absorb part of the budget planned to carry out the planned steps. This also raises the question of what about the other thousands of women who will not or will not be eligible for State aid. The Polish State should take into account all those who require support not only to the procedated extent. It should be noted that, with current solutions, they will not guarantee equal access to free medicines for all women. Already at the level of the law, it is assumed to limit them to those most commonly used and covered by accessibility categories. Hence my earlier questions. Another very important issue is the need for additional administrative activities by healthcare professionals. Already today, doctors and nurses spend about 80% on this. Your time. Instead of treating, they fill in more prints and have to complete bureaucratic procedures. It should be the other way around. They should sacrifice 80%. time for treatment, and only 20% at most for these bureaucratic issues. That's what we're paying attention to, too. When making any changes in the functioning of health care in Poland, they should be carefully designed on the basis of the principles described above which are directly oriented towards patients, i.e. guaranteeing them universal and unlimited budget access to the solutions introduced and guaranteeing the protection of the treatment of the disease unit regardless of the time of occurrence and whether it fits into the catalogued scope. Another principle is to reduce the bureaucratic actions that I mentioned just moments ago, which will translate into an increase in the case of those in need of access to doctors, nurses and midwives. The Civic Coalition Club, taking into account the very idea and purpose of the changes that have been made, which include the assumptions of providing pregnant women with free access to medicines, will vote in favour of the proposed project, while remaining in the hope that the doubts and shortcomings described above will be clarified and corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u14	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mrs Marcelina to speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u15	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 65 zł - the government assumes that exactly this much a woman spends on medications during pregnancy, whole pregnancy, not months, not quarters. 65 PLN for 9 months. Before the project appeared on the Sejm website, I had high expectations of him. Free medications for pregnant women are one of the demands of the Left. At the beginning of my term of office, I tabled a bill on behalf of the Left Club on a significant increase in health care expenditure not only to get her out of this collapse, which is pushed by all subsequent governments, including the Government of Law and Justice, but also to provide funding for free medicines for pregnant women, people with disabilities, seniors. Unfortunately, my expectations and expectations of the club in relation to this project have been disappointed. But that's the least of the problems. You have failed hundreds of thousands of women who are waiting for this project, families who are counting on every day, which medicines, vitamins, hygiene products can afford to give up to buy the necessary medicines. These women were counting on this project. You failed them. What's missing out there? One at a time. First of all, the problem is how much you plan to spend on this project. In 2021, you plan to spend 24 200 000 on medicines for pregnant women. In 2019 375 thousand were born. children. Simple math. This gives the already mentioned 65 PLN for medications for pregnant women for the entire period of pregnancy. But that's not all. Your project assumes that only medicines will be refunded free, so there will be free vitamins that pregnant women have to take for their sake and for the sake of their child. There will be no refund on test strips for measuring sugar, no refund on postpartum pads and dressings, no refund on medicines for hypertension. Does this mean that in Poland we deal with pregnancy diabetes without regular sugar measurements? Has the Ministry of Health developed new guidelines for handling caesarean cuts without bandages? Do you know how to lower your blood pressure by your own will? Your bill also assumes that state aid ends at the birth stage. The bedside? Forget it. This is where you're left to yourself. You can see it was written by people who recently saw pregnancy and childbirth in a manual of physiology 40 years ago. It's not surprising, of course. This is unfortunately the standard for the Polish approach. It's a woman's job to give birth. When she's pregnant, she gets some residual help, and when she's born, she gets nothing, because then everything is her own problem. And that, of course, is a matter for you to put on your head. It shows that this project is a big PR bullshit. What's it gonna take to get him to stop being a big PR bullshit? How do I get my hands and legs back to this project? How do you put sense into that bang? We have a solution for that. First of all, funding for this project needs to be increased. According to a study conducted by the MAM platform, the period of pregnancy costs a woman about PLN 2100, not PLN 65. There's a big difference, 30 times the difference. We have therefore prepared an appropriate amendment. This project needs to be extended to include everything necessary for the proper course of pregnancy. We have prepared an appropriate amendment extending the list of free products to include medical devices and special nutritional uses. The Minister of Health must also have the right to apply on his own initiative a refund to medicines that are not refunded today and are used, even in pregnancy pressure. In your version, these drugs will unfortunately be off the list. We have, of course, prepared an appropriate amendment. Finally, it is about extending the time they will be entitled to free medicines and medical devices. If this project is to make sense, it must cover the entire period of the floor. You can see that we, the Lefts, want pregnant women to be taken care of so that you can take care of pregnant women, and not just say they are. What is important to us is to adopt a project that responds to all the needs of women during pregnancy and childbirth, and not to the fact that the project is cheap. By adopting the Left's amendments, you have a chance to give pregnant women and in the bosom real support instead of false concern. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 65 zlotys for 9 months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u16	Thank you very much, Member. Now please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's been a long time since December 17th. When the government adopted an amendment to the Law on public-funded healthcare, which is intended to guarantee free access to certain medicines for pregnant women, as it turns out, to certain medicines, because not all, as is apparent from the wording of the Act. Despite the initial assurances... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, can I ask you to move the calls outside the Seym? Mr. Marshal, I've informed my colleague of what I wanted, and... Yeah, but you did get in, you made a phone call, then you talked to your colleague. You are disturbing a Member who would also like to have the comfort of speaking. Thank you very much. Contrary to the initial guarantees of free access, it is likely that certain medicines most commonly used by pregnant women will be possible. It must be admitted that this simple and easy law with a negligible impact on the state budget and Polish wallets had a fairly long and winding legislative path to appear after 5 months in Parliament's second reading. Unfortunately, in the case of health matters, the PiS does not act as quickly and efficiently as in the case of the adoption of other rules that are needed by the authorities. As soon as we've found out, he can do it even in a few hours. As is well known, the use of medicines during pregnancy requires special caution because of changes in pregnant women's organ function during different periods of pregnancy and the direct effect of medicines on the foetus. Therefore, the issue of the use of medicines during pregnancy is not the subject and problem no. 1 of today's health system, also in the financial context, all the more so because if something serious or at least disturbing happens to a pregnant woman, it usually ends up in a hospital where it is treated at the expense of the State. In this case, it is still possible to address medicines for the maintenance of pregnancy, doping, etc., but in the general opinion of gynecologists, obstetricians and other professionals dealing with this issue, the issue of access to free medicines is not today the most important problem to be addressed in the first place, especially now. I believe that the government and the majority of the PIS should first address other key issues, such as: facilitating access to gynaecological and obstetric care. It is also worth mentioning today the subject of free access to prenatal diagnostic tests, e.g. for the PAPP-A test and many others that future parents are increasingly asking about, and not just those who are 35 years old. Today, in principle, only one amendment needs to be tabled, which will make the law a real provision that guarantees access to all medicines for pregnant women as free of charge. Why some villain, why list, why consult with the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification for many months, the Ministry and other institutions, if it is enough to make a provision that guarantees and leaves the doctor to decide which medicine should be prescribed to a pregnant woman who will be given free of charge at a pharmacy or a pharmacy? Thank you very much and I would like to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u18	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask the floor of Mr Bosak, who will present the position of the Committee of Members of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is a shame that after so many years of PiS rule, the party that announced that it wanted to fight the demographic crisis, we are dealing with a bill to give free medicines to pregnant women. It is clear that these medicines should be guaranteed, and as my previous speakers rightly pointed out, the measures guaranteed by this law are insufficient. It is clear that the Minister of Health anticipates the lack of resources for the reimbursement of these medicines, giving himself the right to modify the regulation in the middle of the year and to correct the list of medicines that will be free of charge. We are therefore making an amendment that is to double the spending for this purpose. We also point out that the forecast of 10 years ahead in the law is completely unrealistic: such things cannot be predicted so far ahead. The question is, at all, what is the purpose of creating this type of forecast and entering it into the law. Here's the amendment, I'm handing it over. Thank you very much. We would also like to point out that apart from the obvious issue of access to medicines, it is no less important to have quick and efficient access to doctors' visits to care for pregnant women. If these visits need to be waited for, it is clear that some women will benefit from private health care for their children and bear the costs for their health. Of course, although the statistics collected by the Minister of Health may not show this problem, this problem exists in reality, it is simply out of sight of the public. I would therefore like to point out that this must also be resolved urgently. Unfortunately, health protection was not the eye of the current government until the outbreak, when the government suddenly pretended to want to change the situation. Why do I say "pretend"? That's because this concern is fake. The best testimony is the situation of people who tell the truth about the state of health protection, namely they are banned from speaking and even threatened to be fired and implemented this threat. Yesterday before the Seym, I presented a seven-point package for doctors, formulated in consultation with the medical community, as well as medical rescuers. On the big Saturday, I met with one of the experts in the medical community, Mr.Marcin Jachimiak. I would like to recall these seven points, because they show well what we really need at the moment in health care and what the government does not provide or merely pretends to solve these problems by publicizing partial movements, blowing them with the help of obedient media to extreme proportions, completely out of any scale of common sense. The first issue that is urgently needed is a matter that has been widely discussed in the media and has not been resolved for weeks: high-quality personal protection measures in sufficient quantities. The second point: regular tests for all health professionals so that they can be sure of their health and that they do not pose a threat to themselves and their families. The third issue is accommodation for every physician who is currently in the epidemic zone, so that he does not endanger his own household, as well as reasonable on-call planning, so that doctors and nurses work as separate teams, so that even if infection occurs, it does not spread to all workers of the health care facility concerned. Next issue: high salary allowance and exemption from the Social Security Office for the entire period of the epidemic. On my way to the Sejm today, I heard that the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army on the basis of a special agreement will have a lower price of petrol at Orlen stations. Meanwhile, those who are actually on the first line of fighting the epidemic, not only do not have a chance for some supplement, for some remuneration, but often do not even have a chance of normal insurance or sickness benefits if they become infected. Few people know that most paramedics or many paramedics don't have normal employment contracts. If they get infected, they can't go on sick leave. So another one of my demands, five, special insurance policies in case of illness or death. Posture six: guaranteeing the right to sickness benefit regardless of the form of employment. Postulate seven and last, but perhaps most important in the current situation: ban on dismissal for critical of government or hospital statements in the media. This is a seven-point package for doctors. If the Minister of Health were sitting here with us, I'd give him this package. Unfortunately, the minister isn't in the gym with us. This also shows an approach to this subject. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's actually no one from the Council of Ministers with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that four of your fellow Members have asked questions. If no one else comes forward, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for the question - 1 minute. I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. As there is no Member, I ask you to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question. During pregnancy, not only medicinal products but also medical devices and hygiene products are needed. I would like to ask the applicants why in their bill they are limited only to medicines reimbursed, since the costs of pregnancy are much higher. Why do they not want to introduce free PAPP-A tests for all women, as is the case for example. Germany? In Poland you can receive this benefit free of charge if the woman is over 35 years old or has a history of pregnancy pathology. For all other women, the cost of this study is PLN 500.700. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u22	Thank you very much. Please ask Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's a shame you're not here, Minister Szumowski, doctor, professor. We will, of course, support this bill. Our amendment says that doctors should decide what patients need and what should be free, not what will be written in the bill. I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister, Prof. Szumowski, the Minister of Health, to tell you this: I expect the Minister to stand before the Polish public and tell you how hospitals are really operating in Poland today, what is the situation in hospitals, associated with the coravirus. We hear it's great, everything's good, everything's good, and where you call, you make a phone call, it turns out everything's missing. Polish society is giving an exam. Of course, not the whole Polish society, because the right side of the political stage of this exam has failed recently. So, Minister, I expect (the bell) from you information, what Polish doctors really need, Polish health care, because Poles work hard and would like to help. I expect the Minister of the Truth from you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u24	Thank you very much. Please ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u25	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The first question concerns the continuation of free medicines for pregnant women. Is the Ministry working on extending this programme, e.g. by extending free access to prenatal diagnostics or ordering the issue of birth schools, creating a free regulated network and other activities to ensure wider, better, faster and above all free access to gynaecological and obstetric care? On the occasion, I would also like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Health about the fate of the medical fund, which was widely announced more than a month ago, consisting of three pillars, which was supposed to be an autonomous complement to the current system of health finance, and today it turns out that it was probably just an image rescue wheel after the problems of billion-dollar public media funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The basic question is: At what stage Is there a medical fund? How many people, and who, are working on this project? Has anything changed with regard to funding? Less than 3 billion were expected. Has this amount increased? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u26	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this meeting, the Law and Justice, on the one hand, wants to take away women's rights against women's will and, on the other hand, proposes an illusory programme to provide free medicines for pregnant women. If we go deeper into the content of this bill, it turns out that it is only a part of the medicine, moreover, that limits are to be applied, which may run out in the middle of the year. As for the idea, we all agree, but of course the devil is in the details of this project. I have a question about the fate of pregnant women who have been affected by cancer and for whom it is necessary to use non-standard treatment. That's a specific question. Will the cost of this treatment be reimbursed? Because today women ask that, and that's customized treatment. We hope that someone will answer today, because there is almost no one from the government, and the subject is very important, especially today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u28	Thank you very much for asking the question. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. Mr Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, will answer the questions asked earlier. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for so many questions. Important questions. I thank the rapporteur for a very detailed explanation of the objectives of the Act and the content of the Act. Thank you all for your questions. This law is another step in extending access rights to free medicines after the first element on free medicines for the elderly, i.e. 75+. Now we are adopting another similar project for the second very important group - pregnant women. As a general rule, this bill is constructed in a similar way to the law on medicines for people aged 75+. There's been a lot of talk here about the limit. Any law which concerns external financing outside the National Health Fund must contain an expenditure rule which protects the implementation of the law and a rule on what if the envisaged implementation of the law is increased, as the contractor must fit in the limit. Of course, this was the case with medicines for people aged 75+ when the planned implementation in a given year was at risk. And then an appropriate amendment of the law was made and the planned measures were increased in the medicines law for 75+ people. That's how it looks technically. There have been many voices here about the fact that these measures are insufficient, that there is only 65 PLN per pregnant person. We know that, as a rule, pregnant women should not take medication, so that it is not that the measures are for everyone. If there is no justification, medicines should not be prescribed to pregnant women. The question was whether funding for chronic patients would also be guaranteed. These are the solutions envisaged for pregnant women. We know that pregnant women can also be chronically ill. There has been talk of diabetes, and I would like to say that this financial limit has been set after examining all the expenditure of pregnant women on medicines that are reimbursed, and it has been set at such a level as to ensure that the expenditure so far is fully covered, which means that we are increasing the budget by 24 million a year accordingly. As you have said, this will be an additional list, another sublist of medicines refunded, which will be added to the list of medicines after evaluation and approval by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification, as this institution deals with the analysis of medicines and the analysis of what drugs should be included in the list. Such an order has already been issued, we are waiting for this work to continue, because the law has not yet entered into force. According to the provisions of the Act, the deadline is 4 months from the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. from 1 July, so the first list will be either 1 September or 1 November. As regards medicines that are often used and which are not listed, there is a whole category of medicines for hypertension, but none of these medicines (the bell) can be used during pregnancy, we talked to producers, or actually one producer, to examine the possibility of applying for this group of people to be refunded as much as possible. The second drug that is used in the world is not in Poland, therefore the situation is more difficult, but we will try to make this group of patients also have access to this medicine, because it is the most frequently prescribed medicine, which is quite cost-effective for women who are pregnant. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal, could I, by way of exception, ask a question to the Minister? Madame, with all the kindness, it is difficult to ask questions after the point: answers to questions. The Member knows that I always approach with full kindness, but this order must look serious. Would the Minister like to hear again the question of the Member who was late for the Seym, even though she knew that she was the first to ask the question? I think that the Members present in the Chamber do not mind either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much for taking such a kind approach to Members' duties and giving me the opportunity to ask this question, even though I had to leave the plenary room for a moment. Minister! Today, many people are asking an extremely important question. Citizens who have been fighting for many years to increase their healthcare expenditure are afraid today of a significant drop in revenues to the NFZ and that there will be no funds in the NFZ budget to cover these additional costs. I would like to ask on this occasion, if we are talking, you yourself referred to the expenditure rule, which also limits the expenditure of the NFZ, whether the Ministry of Health has even analysed how much income the NFZ could lose in the collapse of the economy, in the freezing of part of the economic sectors for a month. It is said in the analyses that it will be from PLN 5 billion to even PLN 20 billion. While this first threshold is still positive and would probably be for the NFZ to swallow, 20 billion could be an important problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It may not be for scheduled operations, which today are often postponed for later time. Brief question: Is the issue of falling revenues to the NFZ already under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u32	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer the question of Mrs Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u33	I would like to say that this question is not about this law, it is about the macroeconomic situation and all the whole government activities that are being implemented now. Exactly. It is not known exactly what the macroeconomic situation will look like. The government is working very hard. Today in the Senate there is a law, another law which improves the economic situation of Poles. It all depends on our cooperation, our work in the whole health sector. As you can see, we have fewer cases, statistically significantly less than in many European Union countries. Testing. We are preparing what the Minister was talking about to defrost the economy. The same applies, of course. Also medicine. We know that this is a very important element. It is about including urgent procedures that have not taken place. All sudden and very urgent procedures are being carried out, but we are preparing for the next stage so that there are as many of them as possible to make it as safe as possible for staff and patients. I think the National Health Fund is working on this with the department that oversees the National Health Fund. We are not directly involved with the Ministry of Finance because, of course, the financial plan is being prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Macroeconomic data are collected from different sources. These macroeconomic data may be changing now, but it certainly cannot be predicted today. I know that there is certainly no way to knowingly determine what the final financial result of the National Health Fund's revenue will be for the current year. I'm sure that's the kind of problem that all countries in the world have. We just have to work as effectively as possible. So that I cannot say in this respect what will be the loss of the National Health Fund's finances, and de facto also the healthcare providers, as the financial year ends. There were a few questions that were not directly related to this meeting, to this bill adopted. We will answer these questions in writing because I do not know all the answers. That's gonna have to be collected. We'll give it to you accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u34	Thank you very much. This will also be the answer to your question in writing. I understand that the rapporteur, Mr Tomasz Latos, resigns from the... I'm not the rapporteur. I'm so sorry. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft bill on electronic delivery (print No 239). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Mrs. Wanda Buk, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I have the honour to present to you and your fellow Members a draft bill on electronic services, Parliamentary Printing No 239. To the consistently built already today by the Ministry of Digitalization and by the government of electronic identification infrastructure, including e.g. electronic identity cards, trusted profile, electronic signatures and other services, we add another very important element, i.e. electronic delivery. I believe that the project I am presenting to you today will bring tangible benefits for citizens, administration and business as well. The project is horizontal in nature. The arrangements introduced will apply to most of the procedures, both administrative and judicial, but also in civil law proceedings. It is a project that has been very widely consulted: with more than 180 actors and all environments. The solution that we are talking about today is a solution that already exists in the world and is effectively applied in many European countries: France, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Estonia. We are joining this group today. The project also implements the Tallin Declaration and the Ministerial Declaration, which indicated in 2017 that public services should be available in digital form. The State should also offer alternative methods of communication to citizens who do not or cannot communicate. In our work on the project, we based ourselves on the following assumptions. The most important of these is that a citizen should have the right to communicate electronically with the authorities of the State and should be given such a right. The principle is that if a citizen declares that he wishes to receive correspondence addressed to him by the State in an electronic manner, the authorities of the State will have to communicate with him in this way. Of course, the citizen will not have to inform the office every time. All you have to do is report to the so-called. a database of electronic addresses to be run by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. IT. The second idea we had was to build a single channel of communication between the citizen and the authorities of the state, so-called. one virtual window. As you probably know today, the public administration has different systems, different electronic solutions, and from the point of view of the citizen it should be a single entity. This will be served by one address for service, which means that a citizen, a company or a non-governmental organisation who reports to an electronic address database has one, exactly the same electronic address to which all entities from the administration will send him or her correspondence. Importantly, and I must point out, this address will not be an e-mail address. The solution introduced by the law is based on very strict provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, so-called. eIDAS regulation of 23 July 2014. The electronic delivery we propose will be one of the trust services, based on this Regulation and on standards, including technical standards, developed at European Union level. This means that the solution we propose will be a secure solution, ensuring confidentiality and security of service. Another assumption is that delivery is free for operators and people wishing to use it. Therefore, the draft law provides that the State will ensure the minimum functionality of fully safe and free service. Private sector entities are also expected to join this solution, as is the case today with electronic identification and qualified e-signatures. Qualified service providers will be able to provide their customers with a fully recognised e-service service in law and procedures. The draft law on electronic delivery also adapts the provisions of the Polish system of right to implemented solutions. In the project we change more than 60 different laws, so that it was not an easy project. It required a lot of arrangements, including at government level. Our actions take into account the specificities of individual procedures and already functioning IT systems. Ladies and gentlemen! Recent weeks have made the need for computerisation and digitisation not only a part of increasing public sector innovation (the Bell) but also a necessity, an opportunity to carry out public tasks for citizens in a continuous and undistorted manner. Therefore, in view of the above, I would very much like to ask for the adoption of a law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. I'd like to announce a time-out now. 11.30, because the Seniors Convention has been convened. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 11 hours 11 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I therefore ask the floor of Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I present today my position on the draft law, which is quite important for Poles. It is rare that the bill affects such a huge number of people. There are almost 32 million people who will benefit from this law. Because it has such a huge range of influence. The current state of use of electronics is very good. The development of private and public electronic services is very high. ePUAP, e-PITs, electronic recipes, banking, insurance, telecommunications, commerce - all this is an expression of a very accurate and well-functioning electronic information system. On the other hand, there is one main brake. This brake is the issue of a legal order for service in writing. This bill goes in that direction to finally break it. It's about what was said and what the Minister was talking about by presenting the bill. This falls within the huge scope of legislative changes. It is almost 60 laws, codes that need to be changed, but so that citizens, Poles can do things even more efficiently and faster. The purpose of this law is to be able to define the correspondence between the citizen, the entrepreneur and the state, also the local government - because this is the whole public administration. What is the advantage of these solutions? We see as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that there are a lot of these tasks. I'll just replace the main one. One appropriate address - not a few, several, only one specific, added to a natural person or to an entrepreneur. The standard of service - one, sure, one that applies to everyone and everywhere. Relocation of service, which is often a mirage. It's in this bill that disappears. Shortening of time, then mutual identification, providing proof of service. Free communication with public entities. Integration with electronic circulation of documents in companies. This is also a very important thing that is happening in this bill. Increase the certainty of document circulation, save time, certainty of deadlines, convenience. But also for those who do not want to use electronic capabilities, the law leaves the possibility of so-called. Hybrid service, i.e. a citizen, requires the State to do so and deliver it in a form such as today, i.e. paper. This chosen model of regulation, which the government presents, is the regulation of a separate law and designated operator. The terms in the bill are quite distant. But in order to carry out all adjustment processes calmly, all the current elements that apply in Polish law will remain in force for almost 9 years until 30 September 2029, to which ePUAP will apply. My parliamentary club supports the government's full-blown submission. We believe that this is a huge opportunity for development for Poland, saving time, comfort for citizens, for entrepreneurs, for local governments. Importantly, it is also one of the components of the implementation of what we assumed, the construction of the state, so-called. e-States capable of providing citizens and access to and security of these services more quickly. At the same time, standing in line for what other countries are doing, we are one of the first in a group of countries to start this legislative change. And it's also glorious that the government noticed. The parliamentary majority, which is the Law and Justice, as I said, supports this law. I ask the High Sejm to also find possible consensus within this law, because I think it is a very good law that requires support and I hope that the Sejm will give such support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Michał Grammarka to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u39	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club welcomes the bill on electronic services. The idea contained in the project is absolutely right in our view. It also welcomes the great progress made between the current draft law and the previous iteration of the law. Indeed, the proposed legislation is a response to the needs of the modern world. Under the law, the delivery process will be significantly accelerated. Electronic delivery will make life easier, greatly simplifying the day-to-day functioning of all actors, both public and private. It is not without our perspective that the environmental value of the entire project and the savings resulting from the reduction of traditional mail circulation measured in this case in millions of cars kilometres is also important. It is worth mentioning that if the regulation submitted by you had been in force today, during the pandemic, it would have greatly facilitated the functioning of the state - the judiciary, local governments or government administration. However, this bill is not without faults. Detailed amendments will be tabled during committee work, but here it is worth noting some of the most controversial points of this submission. The government is de facto proposing to introduce a monopoly on electronic delivery. The designated operator indicates the Polish Post. This monopoly is expected to operate at least until 2025, but experts indicate that it will be very difficult to limit it after this date. Moreover, the Act requires payment for the provision of certain services which are basically free of charge in today's realities. In the public statements of the management of the Ministry of Digitalization it is clearly stated that the high cost of e-service is intended to compensate the Polish Post for the losses resulting from the outflow of universal letter services. Do we need such a transfer of public funds to the State Treasury company? Or else: besides Polish Post, who needs such a monopoly and such transfer? Such thinking is difficult to reconcile with the principles of objectivity, non-discrimination, transparency or proportionality, which are so characteristic of the European single market. The legislator should also be required to carry out the implementation of electronic services. The project presented shows that there is a significant time span for the technical implementation of this solution in the various areas of the functioning of the State. Since I, as legal counsel, have an obligation to receive a letter from my office as early as October this year, why? I, as the same legal counsel, have to wait until 2029 to file an electronic letter at the D.A.'s office? In the context of the indication of Polish Post as a designated operator, the so-called service also raises considerable doubts. hybrid service. On the one hand, it welcomes the recognition of the needs of people who are affected by digital exclusion, but the provisions presented do not give rise in any way to protecting the content of electronic correspondence from unauthorised access from the site, e.g. employees of the Polish Post Office. On the other hand, the question arises as to how to justify the situation in which an additional entity appears between the sender and the recipient of the official letter, which has free, unfettered access to the content of the correspondence. Is and to what extent such a situation undermines our right to privacy, as defined among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 47 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Our doubts are also raised about the compatibility of the provisions presented with the regulation mentioned by the Minister of the European Parliament on electronic identification and trust services in relation to electronic transactions in the common market, a regulation known as eIDAS. The actual compulsion to use the so-called services. the operator designated or resigning from the qualified version of electronic service are not the only fields in which the bill presented is contrary to that regulation. They also need to be discussed in the committee's relevant content. To sum up, in recognition of the value of the bill submitted and the importance of the provisions presented for the construction of the digital state, Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of (the bell) directing the project to further work in the relevant committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We don't know when the pandemic will end, but we do know what the world might look like when the moment is expected for all of us. It will undoubtedly have two things in it. Firstly, the role of the state will be increased, not only by its power, but also by its responsibilities. Secondly, it will be a more digital, more remote world, in which we, Members, will, too, perform various activities in isolation from the workplace to which we are accustomed and to which we are accustomed to the public. It is so good and important, and it is necessary that the Electronic Service Act meets both of these requirements, both of these criteria. It brings us closer to what a politician once said, a new normality. That's good, but if you take into account the detailed provisions of the Electronic Service Act, it's a little late. The Left Parliamentary Club welcomes the draft submitted. We acknowledge, as I just said, that he is extremely needed. Nevertheless, he is not free of faults. The essential, as I have just tried to point out, is a very long, well-developed timetable for the implementation of this much-needed law. Yes, it is true, as Minister Buk said, that it is a horizontal law, a law that affects all without a small adult citizens, who play different roles: employers, employees, entrepreneurs, customers, parties to litigation, etc., etc. But we cannot wait until the end of 2029, we cannot wait another 10 years to implement this law. It was a long time ago when this new law was being adopted on this project. We need a significant acceleration of legislative work and, in particular, implementation work. We will be asking for this timetable to be accelerated in the course of further work. The law, as I have already mentioned, contains very numerous regulations on all aspects of social life. Changes, additions, modifications require five codes and more than 50 ordinary laws. Together with the 2014 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union cited here, this is the foundation of a modern, digital state, e-state not only from declarations but in fact. In their ideological layer, in turn - because mailboxes and delivery boxes, High Izbo, also contain a certain ideological component - this law is based on the idea of the philosophy of public services, close to me, and in Poland known mainly for the idea of public media. As the idea of public media is realized, it's probably a topic for a separate discussion. I hope that here the idea of public services will be used precisely to deliver the same service to all citizens, regardless of the conditions, at the same price, under the same conditions. In this context, I would like to draw attention to some inconsistencies with the price policy on the use of delivery boxes and added services. In the course of our work, we will be in favour of this pricing policy and simplifying these prices. The money that will enter the pocket of the designated operator by the end of 2025. Poczta Polska, will need to adapt this company in a relatively difficult financial situation to the requirements of the information society era, to a new digital world, in which Poland's Poczta (The Bell) will also be needed for its citizens and its employees. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I declare that we will ask you to refer this bill to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Now please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachajka, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u43	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law on electronic services. The project is in line with the expectations of our economy and citizens. It is the 21st century, and Polish offices use solutions from the 16th century. Without a doubt, it is necessary to speed up and facilitate the transmission and receipt of registered mail. This project solves the problem hated by everyone, i.e. aviso and then stand in the mail queue. This is a step in the right direction, a step forward, a solution to the extent that already exists in the European Union, such as Estonia, Denmark, France, Germany, the Czech Republic and Belgium. The question at this point is: Why is it so late? Why did it once again turn out that the government did not keep its promises and implemented this service in 2019? The government is not from doing PR, promising good solutions, and then implementing them 3 years later. This is another example of government omissions. Unfortunately, such examples can be multiplied, starting with the food holding promised in 2016, which - if it existed today - would cause that there would be no problem with galloping prices for food products, or the law extending the agricultural holding which does not work and subsequent farms are auctioned by bailiffs. I'm not talking about solutions to the ASF pandemic anymore, because that's what you should call it. In media silence, we still have a slaughtered Polish pig. High Izbo! Please note that if fewer Poles were currently affected by the coronavirus, if they did not have to visit post offices crowdlessly, as we know, often not receiving mail is considered delivery. Estonia, as the digital heart of Europe, should be a model of digitalisation and technological progress for us. Currently 99% Public services in Estonia have been improved by digital technology. In this country, most official cases can be handled electronically, and this is not just for the citizens of Estonia. The e-resident programme allows non- Estonians to access online services such as company creation, banking, payment processing and taxation. This makes it easy to do business, which attracts foreign companies and investors. Over 6,000. companies set up by e-residents brought Estonia EUR 10 million in taxes. More than 40,000 benefited from the scheme. people from 150 countries and Estonia strives for 10 million e-Estonians by 2025. The bill on electronic delivery is progress, and it's in the right direction. But will it be well implemented? The current situation shows that not every home has access to the computer and the Internet. Many children today have great problems with remote teaching. The Act is due to enter into force on 1 October 2020, so an educational campaign should already be conducted. Public television should not be used for party games and should serve information functions. It should provide reliable information to familiarise the average citizen with the operation of this law. High Izbo! In order to ensure that these rules are right and perform their function, technology and stakeholders and citizens must be properly prepared. We can't let this bill run again at the start of the project so that it doesn't work. Let us recall the situation with e-releases and huge problems with the training of doctors, as well as technological problems after the entry into force of this law or delays in the implementation of the CEPiK programme and numerous failures of state registers systems. The government is trying to maintain power, not the real problems of society. We have talented young people, educated engineers, technological capabilities. There is only a lack of government support for projects such as e-service to be introduced much faster, in advance of other European countries. In summary, the proposed solution is very good and should have been implemented at least 2 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesz will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a child, I often imagined what Poland's future would look like. E.g. In 2000 - I was 10 years old at the time, I already had Internet, e-mail - I wondered what Poland would look like in 20 years. I thought there would be a million electric cars, that Poland would produce unmanned drones, that there would be a space industry, as Prime Minister Morawiecki put it, with this cosmic element in an idealistic sense. What's the reality? After 20 years these children's dreams turned out to be only dreams, because after almost 30 years since the Internet was launched in Poland, 50 years after the invention of e-mail, finally years after other countries neighbouring us did it, electronic delivery is introduced in Poland. Today I was wondering what could be the reason for this - whether it is the inability of the rulers or some resistance to matter - and I remembered the essay by Frédéric Bastiat from almost 200 years ago - the Petition of candlemakers. These candle makers were trying very hard to protect their interests by restricting citizens' access to the sun. They wanted to make as much use of their candles as possible, even though we know from a perspective of years that candles had already been replaced by other technological solutions. I have the impression that there was also a candle manufacturer here on the road, in this case the company of the Treasury, a company which is a symbol of inability, a symbol of backwardness, namely Poczta Polska. A company which only introduced a few years ago, a company that stumbles over its own legs, which only functions because it still has a monopoly on some part of the services. Where this monopoly managed to collect the company, we proved as Poles that the Polish private sector is able to overtake by several lengths, introducing thousands of packages in Poland, and chasing away innovatively this company. I have the impression that it is Poczta Polska in fear of losing a significant part of the revenue, because a significant part of the revenue is provided by these official letters, it was the resistance to innovation in Poland. And that is also the case with this law. We've been introducing something we've known for dozens of years, e-mails, e-mails, but how do we do that? In this bill, Poczta Polska as usual gets a monopoly and this monopoly for years, moreover, in order to complicate the whole matter, it does not use known, proven solutions in electronic communications, but it will come up with a new solution. Of course, the one who is to gain from it, e.g. broadcasters, authorities, local authorities, will have to pay dearly for this service. Why salty? Because there's gonna be a monopoly who's gonna dictate the terms. And I still feel that these services will be at the same level as other services provided by entities that have a monopoly on the market. If we want to introduce a service of e-service, electronic correspondence, first, where there is a need for state action, i.e. The address register, let's make an address log, but all the rest of the operations, keep the mailboxes, communicate to private parties. There is no reason for any institution to grant a monopoly on this matter, because this institution will claim to expand this monopoly and in time, and to the extent that these candle makers wanted to fight the sun to have a monopoly on light. In fact, Poland will not develop and these dreams or mine from 20 years ago, or the Prime Minister's one year ago about a million electric cars will never come true, because the state still has such a PRL mentality that innovation will be taken over by companies of the Treasury, which through their monopoly, the ossified post-peerelow structure are not able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Five Members have entered the question. If there aren't more people willing, I'm closing the list. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to report Gregory Braun. Grzegorz Braun is sixth, good. I ask you to ask Mr Paul Krutul, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as this bill is concerned, NGOs praise it. It is high time that Polish and Polish entrepreneurs could save time in the 21st century. The only question is why this can happen in ten years' time. Public administration is drowning in debt. You can't deal with the whole KRS on-line so far. I also have a question about how much it will cost to implement this law in individual years, how many employees will be released or re-expanded in the framework of the Polish Post and why we need to implement this law only at the end of 2029. We should do this earlier, all the more so in an age of epidemiological threats, when we should take care of our fellow countrymen so that they have as little to do with other people as possible. The implementation of this law will result in them staying in companies (the bell), in homes and these matters will be done online. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u48	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Pawłowska, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left has always believed that digitization of the state is a step in the right direction, comfort for citizens, improvement of the functioning of offices. However, 2029 is an extremely distant date. 2029 will be the year in which you will probably no longer rule. Although, looking at your desire to maintain power, at any cost, perhaps - anything can happen. Mr. Prime Minister's announcements on the digitalisation of the state, his electro-molecularity - as it turns out, the utopian vision he has often told us about - have so far looked like the 100,000. electric cars. All have heard of them in many promises, but no one has seen them in practice. Can the Law and Justice finally tell us how real it will be to introduce all the amendments to the laws that the Prime Minister was talking about in the context of (the bell) the creation of a modern and digital state? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u50	Thank you very much, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the preparation of the indicated monopoly, i.e. the Polish Post, to perform the functions indicated in the Act, mainly the hybrid service. Art. 44th Act states that the transformation takes place in an automated manner, ensuring the protection of postal secrecy at every stage of implementation. There is a record, it sounds very beautiful, but how will the Polish Post provide it, how is it prepared for it? Second, more general question. Why this year 2029? After all, it sounds exactly the same as in the case of the many other solutions you have proposed, i.e. mediaally, PR. We have done this to you, and we do not really know who will implement it, because 2029 is at the moment such an abstract term (the bell) that it is actually very sad to hear that you are offering such things to Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u52	Gentlemen from the secretariat, please keep your voice down as to how Members ask questions. I would ask you to ask Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u53	Dear Minister, Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Members of this House! It's a pretty casuistic question. Before I became a Member in 2019, since 1998 I was a self-government officer at various levels: city councilman, then councilman of the Sejmik Śląskie Voivodship. Since 1998, I have been trying to make an electronic statement of property. I only managed this once, in the first year of the ePUAP legislation, in 2006. In the Silesian Voivodeship Office such a declaration of property was accepted and no one later informed me that there were any problems with this declaration. During no other year of the Councillor's mandate, these levels of the statement of property were electronically accepted. In the last year it was effectively delivered to the President of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship, but from the tax office I was informed that this statement came unsigned, despite (the bell) that of course it was signed with a trusted profile. Question: "When will I be able to make an electronic statement under this law?" We very much hope that this will happen before the year 2029 mentioned here many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u54	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are talking about electronic services, and I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that seniors are the most vulnerable group to digital exclusion. As data from the 2018 CSO report show, the information society in Poland had 84% access to the network. households, and among those aged 65 and over, the percentage of Internet users was less than 28% , EU average - 48%. High Izbo! In Poland there are about 2 million independent, independent people due to age due to illness due to disability. These people, I understand, are to be provided with such a public service, a hybrid service, it will be provided by the Polish Post and will entitle it to print, to wrap electronic correspondence. Will this situation provide access (the Bell) to the content of correspondence between a citizen and a public entity? In this case, will we not have to limit the right to privacy, Art. 47 constitutions, when will a Polish Post official have the right to access correspondence between a citizen and a public entity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u56	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the club, excuse me - near the Confederation. In time. Everything's in front of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u57	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederacy, of course, looks to the future with great hope. It welcomes the Confederates' ability to use modern technologies also in public life, but our doubts are about monopolizing, our doubts are about security procedures. When converting a document sent in hybrid shipping mode, converting from electronics to paper, will posters do things with their eyes closed, or will the mask lift higher? How is this going to work, Mr. Reporter? You use the word "break" in an acceptable manner, that certain rules will be broken. Conservative - yes, but (The bell) all of a sudden, it's the devil, so what's it gonna be like with the polish secret?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u58	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Ms Wanda Buk, will answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u59	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can sort out these questions because they've been repeating themselves in some part of it. I will start with repeated slogans, so to speak, that we monopolize the market in any way, preferring Polish Post. Ladies and gentlemen! Poczta Polska is an operator designated by the 2015 competition. As a result of this competition, from 2016 to 2025, it acts as a designated operator, which means that it also fulfils a number of additional obligations. In order to illustrate why it is worth combining the role of an analogue and digital provider, I would like to refer to those hybrid shipments, of which I will say a few more words later, in the field of confidentiality of correspondence. Imagine, as far as hybrid shipments are concerned, that one operator, one entity maintains an analogue service network and another operator maintains the entire electronic system. Then we don't have one channel of transmissions, we don't have an automated process between the two subjects. We're just messed up. It's just pointless. In this example, for example, it makes no sense. The delegation of tasks to the operator appointed today, Poczta Polska, is only a temporary solution, i.e. until 2025, when the Polish Post will cease to be this operator. Perhaps then another entity will stand for the competition, which will take over these commitments and will also carry out the tasks we are talking about today in the field of electronic delivery. This is about this transmission to the Polish Post Office. What is still very important, the rules we have created are independent of who will perform this service. If another entity is selected as a designated operator in 2025, that other entity will have access to the entire database that will be run by the digital minister responsible for computerization. There were a lot of words about deadlines, too. Many of you are offended by the 2029 deadline. I would like to point out one thing that you should note that 2029 is the last date indicated in the Act and that it is the maximum date. I would like to see this happen sooner, as do you. And this happens before, for example. The electronicisation of proceedings is already in the courts today. An example is the e-court in Lublin, which already introduced full electronization today. Let us remember that we have a very wide network of common courts, administrative courts. They work differently. They must have that time to adjust. The Ministry of Justice insisted very strongly, indicating, in describing this judicial reality, the necessity to give time. I believe that this electronicisation of judicial and judicial and administrative proceedings will ultimately be much, much faster. Remember, too, please, that the first steps to be taken and the first changes will be in the coming year, then they will be in 2025 when it comes to local governments. I will address Mr Grammar. Mr President, I have made my electronic statement, my property statement by electronic means. You, you seem, could have done it, too. As regards local authorities, in the case of local authorities, the maximum time limit is 2025. I will return for a moment to why it is justified today to delegate these tasks to Poczta Polska, rather than to another, commercially chosen entity. The point is that in the coming year these electronic services are entering into force and will be implemented, although, of course, not to the full extent. Today, there is no time to organize a second contest for the designated operator and simply lose the next days. In answer to questions and doubts related to the secrecy of correspondence, I would like to say first of all that in the case of hybrid shipping in the model we are talking about today - here I am addressing Mr Braun, who has not asked me a question, but I will also answer on behalf of Mr Braun - i.e. in the model, when we have one entity, Polish Post in this case, which is an operator designated and for analogue and digital service, this process is automatic. We're not talking about human involvement here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The system receives correspondence that is printed, enveloped by the system and served by the delivery service provider. In recent words, I would like to point out that as far as the mystery of correspondence is concerned, the mystery of correspondence is the widest mystery. She embraces medical confidentiality, patent secrets, and a number of others. Let us remember that the operator is liable administratively and is responsible for its criminal infringement. Note, it is worth noting that Polish Post meets all kinds of safety standards today, has ISO certificates, but it is by the way. I will answer the other questions in writing. I would ask you to refer the project to the committee because it is a large project that we want to discuss together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft act on electronic services, contained in print No 239, to the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! After consulting the Seniors' Convention, Marshals of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 3: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act - Code of Election and the Act on mandatory library copies, print No 303. Then I'm declaring a time-out. 12.30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 12 h 12 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law on income of local government units and some other laws (print No 33). I will now ask the representative of the Committee of the legislative initiative of Mr Sławomir Broniar to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Citizens' Initiative Committee, I have the honour to present to you and your fellow Members a bill amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws, while asking for the support of this key issue for more than 600 thousand teachers, a law that simply improves access to public education. The first reading of our project, our citizens' initiative, took place in September 2016. At that time, the decision of all parliamentary clubs was directed to further work in committees, but unfortunately since 2016 it has been in seym drawers. Now, after 4 years, he returns to the Sejm because the legislative process in the previous term has not been completed. High Izbo! Today, the first reading takes place in a completely different legal and systemic reality. Over the past four years, the school system has changed: middle school has been abolished, an 8-year primary school has been introduced, a 4-year high school and a 5-year-old tech school has been introduced. The education system has changed. The new Law on Education was adopted, while the problem of funding teachers' salaries was not only unchanged but even deepened. One of the reasons was, among other things. reform without adequate financial security with falling expenditure on education, state budget expenditure. This has been very detrimental to the budgets of local government units. Our civic project is the result of many years of collecting difficult experiences and functioning of education in legal chaos, struggling with conflicting rules and lack of responsibility for the existence of the largest professional group in Poland, as well as increasing burdening local governments with new tasks without financial security from the state budget. None of us sitting here in this room can imagine accepting a situation where the employer pays us much less than he should, and that is what happens in the case of teachers, and we find it difficult to accept this situation. In today's legal system, it is possible for Parliament to determine the level of teachers' salaries, the Ministry of Education issued detailed decisions and regulations on this basis, the Minister of Finance passed money to local governments, and the local government could spend it on other purposes than the teacher's salary, e.g. for the construction of sewage or other necessary expenditure, including the payment of debts. The Polish Teachership Association believes that this system, which has been in operation for several years, in which no one is in fact responsible for anything, must finally be changed. We believe that it is necessary to clearly identify those responsible for the payment of teachers' benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not demanding anything out of the ordinary. As with the salary of the official, the minister, the policeman - the chief officer, the soldier - the minister of defence, and the Member - the Marshal of the Sejm, must be responsible for the teacher's salaries also for the specific authority of the State. We want it to be the Minister of National Education, and that's what our citizens' bill is all about. The decision of how much a teacher earns falls here in the Seym. It is you, ladies and gentlemen, who have recorded in the Teacher's Charter the average salary of the teacher at the various degrees of promotion: the trainee's teacher, contract teacher, appointed and certified. Every year, under the Budget Act, you also determine the amount of the so-called. the basic amount on which the average remuneration is calculated. At the same time, you enter the amount of the education part of the general subsidy into the budget law. Once you decide how much teachers are going to earn next year, the Minister of Education decides how to distribute the educational grant in a special regulation. Then the money comes into the accounts of local governments, which should distribute it between educational institutions in their territory, so that every principal can pay every teacher, each teacher, the corresponding salary. with education, degree of promotion, work placement or number of teaching hours, as well as the level of involvement in the work carried out. As you can see, the road that teachers pay is long, full of curves and bumps. And it's no wonder that along the way this and that from this huge pool of money goes not where it should go. Unfortunately, this is possible because the educational subsidy is so constructed that the local government does not have to spend money for educational purposes, including salaries for teachers and for the maintenance of schools, for these purposes. The money from the educational grant can come to any chosen, not having anything to do with the education of the target, because it is a self-government income. Unfortunately, it happens a lot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the first problem that was dominant in 2016, when the union initiated this project. Now we have another installment of the poorly constructed mechanism for financing teachers' salaries. The increase in education subsidies for several years has not fully secured expenditure related to new tasks, including increases in teachers' salaries. Increases in recent years have not been secured in the state budget since the basic amount for teachers has not been altered due to the change in the basic salaries. What I'm trying to say is that I actually scratch my left eyelid without any subtext. The same situation concerned an increase in basic salaries from 1 September 2019 and concerns the planned increase in teachers' salaries from 1 September 2020. These costs shall not be taken into account either by the budget law or by the regulation on the distribution of the educational part of the general subsidy. Thus, the cost of financing this task will be transferred to the local budgets and will be financed largely from their own income. This can catalyze the occurrence of the same problems in the educational system that took place in previous years, i.e. unlawful abandonment by local authorities of school running, privatisation of education, as well as savings of teachers' remuneration bodies, but also of administrative and school staff. Thank you very much, Mr President. Your speaking time is over. I've already added 1.5 minutes. 15 minutes was supposed to go by. No, five minutes, I'm really sorry. But, Marshal, I wasn't prejudiced. Five minutes to file a motion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, please don't disturb me. Give me a minute to finish. Yes, you're welcome. One more minute. Mr. Marshal, I wasn't prejudiced. I'm so sorry. It's been 15 minutes. It was... This is, like, the sixth or seventh speech, and I don't remember ever being limited. Never mind. But times have changed. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If our citizens' project succeeds through parliament, schools will have a really good change, which I cordially wish my colleagues and teachers. I would like to thank everyone on this occasion with over 340 thousand. teachers, educational staff who have signed the citizens' initiative, which I am honoured to present to you again today. I count on the favor of the ladies and gentlemen of the House because education is a matter all of us and it doesn't have party colors. Education is the future of all of us, of our children, of our grandchildren, of our country. Let us provide an appropriate funding mechanism for education, which will ensure that all pupils, whether they live in a poor or affluent community, have equal access to education. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been familiar with the draft law on amending the law on the income of local government units and some other laws. Mr President rightly pointed out that some time had passed since it was submitted in 2016 and even the legal acts to which he refers have also changed. It should be noted that the state proposal presented in this civic project shows a little bit, and this also reflects the justification that the issue of financing the remuneration of teachers is very simple, that this change that you are proposing is a panacea for all educational problems, that it is enough to change according to the proposals you have made here, and the problem will end, is exhausted, the matter is settled. I would like to point out on this occasion that, unfortunately, this is not as simple as you would like to see, because, however, you are proposing, in general terms, a change in the philosophy of financing education actually and it is worth to see a broader context on this occasion. And this is, among other things. participation in taxes, the division between the state and the municipality of educational tasks. Let me remind you that in the article. The 7th Municipal Government Act states that the commune's task is public education, is not subject to change in your proposal, so you just have to look at it more widely, see it in this wider context. However, I will say briefly in that stage that any proposal, especially presented in the citizens' project, concerning education, in this case the remuneration of teachers and, consequently, of course, issues related to the education of our children, is worth paying attention to and leaning on. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club recommends and proposes that the project be transferred to work in committee. I hope that this will be an opportunity for us, Members, when we are working on it, to actually lean on it in such a way as to see it more widely, to see, among other things. the educational tasks, the division that was established years ago, consider whether we really are not at a place where it is worth taking a fresh look at these matters after a dozen years. I look forward to a very substantive, serious, non-pulistic discussion on this issue, and I hope that all of you, as I see you here, will meet during the work on this project on the Education Committee and we will take these matters very seriously, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u64	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Krystyna Shumilas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What happened today shows how the ruling majority treats citizens. For the first time in this Parliament, it seems that the time taken to submit an application has been reduced, without prejudice to the applicant. The state under the cover of the pandemic, while the Sejm is mute, you are putting projects under discussion that are hot potatoes for you. You're throwing them in today because you're sure it'll make it easier for you to accept them, reject them or freeze them - as most people want, to delete them as appropriate. You know that today the attention of Poles and Poles is focused on the fight against the coronavirus, fear of jobs, fear of future earnings. You're hoping they won't notice, they won't protest. This shows your disregard. One of the projects launched today is a project on teachers - a civic project under which more than 340 000 have been signed. Poles and Poles, who went to the Sejm 4 years ago, passed the first reading and for 4 years went to the Seym freezer. For four years, you didn't have the courage to say what you really wanted to do with this project, but for four years you had time to give teachers, parents and students a deformity of the education system, a double vintage, overcharged programs, uncertainty and chaos, and teachers - low wages and contempt. You've demolished the system, you've made learning conditions worse for your students, you've made working conditions worse for your teachers, and you've shifted the burden of funding your ideas to local governments. Even today, when teachers in the face of a pandemic left to themselves had to meet the difficult task of facing a new reality, with remote teaching, from the Minister of Education instead of words of support and thanks, they heard that it was a chance to show that they could not only strike and apply for a higher salary, but also are just good teachers and teachers. Minister Piontkowski! You may not have noticed, but the teachers show their daily work, not only during the pandemic, that they are good teachers and educators, and that they deserve respect and decent work. Instead of insulting them, it is worth sitting down and talking to them, and this project could be the beginning of such a conversation. Minister! High Izbo! Today we do not know when our lives will return to relative normality, when the students will return to schools, children - to kindergartens and nurserys, when the exams will take place, when the holidays start, but we know that it will not be easy to return. Economic slowdown, lower income of households, higher unemployment, reduced income of local governments - all this can have a drastic impact on the Polish school. Tomorrow, repairing the effects of the pandemic in education will depend on the attitudes of teachers, their work and their determination. You have to support them, not treat them like enemies. Teachers will have to meet not only the requirements of catching up on knowledge and skills, but also the psychological and psychological consequences of the pandemic, all in difficult financial conditions. That is why a broad debate on funding education in a time of crisis should be launched today, and this discussion not only in a closed governing circle, but also in a discussion with all social and political forces, including opposition and those whose rulers today call a worse sort. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, I call on the majority of the Parliament to start this discussion, to send a citizens' project to further work on the Seym. I also hope that this will not be the way to the Sejm freezer, that it will be a real job, that it will be a job that you will really want to lean on teachers' wages, the way of funding education, that you will invite not only your ministers but, above all, local governments, teachers, not only from your trade unions, that you will conduct this discussion with respect to teachers and all those who signed up for the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u66	I will now ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to express my outrage at the manner in which you were treated by the President of the Gun and 340,000. citizens and citizens who signed up for the project we are looking at, outrage due to the shortening of the possibility of presenting this project. We'll rally in an empty room, Marshal. Madame, the entire Bureau has agreed to such a change in the Rules of Procedure... We'll rally in an empty room. ...and please do not insinuate here that these are some changes that are directed against civil projects. We disagreed. I understand... That was the agreement of the Sejm and such a law is in force. But you forgot to tell the applicant. And Mr. Chairman and the organizational committee, or whatever the body is called, have been informed that there are five minutes to make speeches. Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I understand. It's taken my time. Mr Marshal is from organising the work of the Sejm, not speaking during the speeches of the Members and Members. Then I ask you to restore my time. It's not a loss. But that's rude, Mr. Marshal. But you're insinuating things here that aren't true. I had to explain them. Unfortunately, you're wasting your time. But your comment no loss is at least obscene. Keep going, because your time is almost up. Mr. Marshal is probably aware or maybe he has completely lost consciousness that we are sitting, that we are listening to Poles and Poles, that they see an empty House, that they see a project that is important for the largest professional group in Poland... The House is not empty, Madam, because Members are watching remotely. And you're interrupting me for the third time. Why are you lying? Marshal, why are you interrupting your speech? Because I'm explaining a situation that isn't true. You're debating. And now you don't have a voice. I think you've heard from her, too. I understand I'm gonna get the time. No, you won't. If not, I'll force him for myself in the same way that the marshal is forcing himself to speak now. Extend your time. The left is in favour of directing the civil project to further work in the Parliamentary Committee. We would also be in favour of this project not being necessary. As the Left Club, we applied for primary, secondary, kindergarten schools in Poland to receive the necessary funding in the form of a part of the general education subsidy. We have submitted these proposals during the work on this year's state budget. Unfortunately, these proposals were not accepted. Therefore, we believe that guaranteeing teacher's wages in the form of a targeted grant is in this poor situation, a pathological situation, a better solution than what is now. Currently, the costs of reform, the costs of reform of the education system have been shifted, especially in recent years, to teachers' shoulders. Reactivated in 1990, the local government in Poland received very broad and important tasks and competences. The most important of them was and is education, public education. The Left Club considers self-government reform to be the most successful reform of the transition period and pre-school and school education to be the most important state opinion, the most important public investment, social investment. Giving education to local governments was a very good move, which resulted in capitalist solutions. Unfortunately, local authorities have struggled from the beginning with inadequate funding provided with this educational task. In the 1990s there was no pre-school subsidy, which resulted in the pathology of the pre-school system, attempts to liquidate or privatize kindergartens in order to escape the Teacher's Charter. The Teacher's Charter was wrongly accused of being a retroactive act. It was the other way around. This is a social agreement that was developed by the social side with the government at the time of the first Solidarity. It entered into force in 1982. The Left Club as well as independence will defend both local governments, self-government education and the Teacher's Charter. Good education is based on the good work of a well-paid, well-motivated teacher and teacher. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The costs of education reform have been passed on to local governments, and local governments often pass these costs on to teachers by pushing teachers into a private system without secure funding for education, resorting to attempts to circumvent the system and privatize not only kindergartens, but recently schools. This is in the justification of this project. That's a good reason. Mr. Marshal took away my speaking time, so I won't say everything I wanted to say. I'll file a formal complaint against your marshal's behavior. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u68	Thank you very much, Member. I didn't take your time, but you continued. As a Member, you should be aware of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If you don't know, you shouldn't be saying things like that. Remotely Mrs Urszula Nowogórska. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u69	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. I hope we can hear each other. Yes, we can hear you. Welcome. High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the income of local government units and certain other laws, sejm printing no. 33. This is a civic project, as previously said, under which 40,000 have been signed. persons. Today, this citizens' project is gaining new meaning and has a rapid need for implementation. It assumes inter alia. change the way in which educational tasks are financed, so that they are not financed by a general education subsidy to local governments, but by a state-specific subsidy. Experience so far also shows that this system is chaotic and unfair, which needs to be sorted out. It should be made clear that the payment of teachers' salaries should be borne by the government and by the Minister of Education, not by local governments that do not exist in this educational subsidy, and that they add their funds, which are often intended for investment. High Izbo! Teachers must earn a decent living, and their profession must be appreciated and socially respected. The citizens' project responds to these expectations, also to the expectations of local governments, which are overly burdened with the need to finance education in their municipalities. The need for co-financing from year to year is increasing and, as I said, often exceeds the financial capacity of these local authorities. I'll use a few examples. Budgets plan the funds received from subsidies and funds that... [[Disruption of reception]] ...from own resources. And for example... [[Disruption of reception]] ...bet €16 million in 2020 and have to contribute 9.5 million. The city of Tarnów will receive a subsidy of 211 million and will add 115. [[Disruption of reception]] ...will receive 223 million and will add about 17. The municipality of Sękowa will receive 4.5 million and will add about 1.5 million. The city of Limanów will receive a subsidy of about 16 million... [[Disruption of reception]] ...a grant, and he'll add about 73 million. Gorillas will receive 16 million, they will add around 11. City of Zakopane - approx. 16 and will add around 24. Project from 2016... [[Disruption of reception]] ...is largely obsolete and needs to be adapted to the current legal situation. The point is that the subsequent changes that have been made in the education system have already repealed those articles which would have been amended. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to listen to the voice of local governments, which indicate that not all educational expenditure is covered by a global subsidy and generate very serious expenditure in local government budgets. PSL-Kukiz15, Coalition Poland believes that it is not possible to burden local governments with further tasks without financial coverage, and teachers, school workers and specialists should be respected through decent remuneration. The level of education of children in Poland depends on the quality of education and the state is obliged to support and provide funding for this purpose. Teachers and specialists have great potential. Let us show them that we appreciate their work, show Poland and parents. Let us help realize the plans and dreams they lay in the young generation. Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 recommends the bill for further legislative work. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u70	Thank you, Member. You now have the floor of Artur Dziambor, also remotely. You're welcome. We'll have to wait for the call. I wanted to give the Marshal a message. From the envoy, right? Thank you very much. Just a moment, sir. We're already in touch with your envoy. How about next time? This is the last statement on behalf of the clubs and the circles. I will make a formal motion, Mr. Marshal, regarding the way in which the proceedings are conducted. Hello, hello! Good morning. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u71	Thank you very much. [[Disruption of reception]] Excuse me, I have a technical problem here. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to say: this point that is being processed today was introduced in the Sejm in 2016 and the data that is used in this project to figure out what to do with it is from 2014. These data are obviously wrong. It's not just about the amounts, but mostly about teachers' jobs at this point, we've probably got about 100,000. less, so it's all out of date. First of all, I wanted to say what I went through as a young teacher 10 years earlier than this point was introduced. I started my teacher's career at the time, I was an intern teacher, and I remember my paycheck because it's the country that sets the payout. Then I got two transfers. One transfer was my salary, and the other transfer, at several dozen zlotys, was equal to the lowest domestic. The state fixes salaries for teachers and this country allowed itself to establish such a salary for an intern's teacher, below the lowest national level, which was, for obvious reasons, illegal, so it had to be each time, every month, equalize, as if you could not simply set this salary at a higher level. Exactly the same thing has been done for several years when Law and Justice artificially increases the lowest national. Thus, he is forced to increase the salaries of teachers. We have already had a discussion in the education committee on this subject, it has already been discussed to what extent the state participates in the education subsidy and how much the local government must add to it. For obvious reasons, local authorities raised the question that they were unable to finance this fun with the lowest national and eternal increases when the system had 550 thousand. teachers. This is the largest professional group in Poland. As the State does not want to participate in this, the teachers and local authorities have obviously been devastated. I heard from Mr Dolata of Law and Justice at the committee's meeting that schools are not only state-owned and that whatever you add is the good will of the state, so we should be grateful that he adds anything. Let's follow that lead. I know very well that this point which today is being introduced by the Sejm will be rejected by the Law and Justice for exactly the same reasons. However, this is about a system change, which is supposed to lead to the fact that the headmaster of the school will not be the building administrator, but will be the owner of the school. This Director should be able to hire a teacher under any conditions he considers appropriate. Teachers should operate in the free market, they should fight to ensure that they have the best qualifications that would allow them to get more pay. They should go out, as I said, to a market where school-owners fight for the best specialists, not to do an internship to then be a contract teacher, appointed, certified, where really these promotions, which later result in increases, are mainly the result of sitting down and there is no need to do much other than sit in the school and do your years there. This system is placed on the head, and the Polish Teachers' Association proposes, through its project, to concrete it even more and to give it to the state. We think this is from the very beginning to the end of a bad system that needs to be changed. The first step to this can be the education voucher we talk about all the time, but this step would have to completely redefine the situation in which the state participates in what the local government has to do with education. Local government education is obviously transformed into something paraprivate or private, because local governments are unable to cope with the money they have. In our opinion, the less countries in education, the better. The less local activity in education, the better. Education should be completely private, and the step to this is to bring about a situation exactly opposite than proposed in the project of the Polish Teachers' Association. That's why the Confederation will be against this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u72	Thank you very much. Members have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. First Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka, Club Law and Justice. The last one signed up, and it's the first one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not much time, shorty. At the very beginning, I would like to ask Mr Dziambor. Under these circumstances, Mr Dolata is really not in a position to address what you are referring to, but I urge you not to provoke such situations under these circumstances. None of us remembers what the context was, what the situation was, so it is difficult to relate to it and understand what was going on. I would like to ask the Minister, if that is possible - the Deputy Minister of Education is with us - about a few things. Since 2016, a lot has been going on in the education system, a lot has happened, but also when it comes to finance, specific things have happened. They were: the increase in education subsidies, the inclusion of six-year-olds in education subsidies, pre-school grants, additional resources from the educational reserve, many government programs and increases for teachers. So, if that's possible, I'd like to ask the Minister to remind us what the amounts were. And one last thing, ladies and gentlemen. Please, so we can really really talk about education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to be honest. There are tasks of the government, the state and the tasks of the local government, the commune. There's no adding. It's too risky.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u74	Thank you very much, Member. Everyone's doing their job. Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard from the chairman of the Education Committee himself that the PiS will take seriously the project, which is a civic project. And I would have believed it if it hadn't been for the fact that your words were separate and your actions were separate. The way you take teachers seriously shows a teacher strike a few months ago. Just to remind you how long and how You treated people who fought for not their own wages. They fought for the image of education, for how Polish children are taught. But we'll go back to that again. I hope we'll come back again and again if this bill is on the committee. I would like to remind you of other projects that have been submitted that the Ministry of Education does not care about at all. ♪ And time passes by ♪ And it's worth talking about. I'd like to ask you, Minister, when will you finally make your decision on the eighth grade exam and the prom exam? For if you say that you will inform them three weeks before the exams (the bell), you treat them about the same way as you treated teachers during their strike. Thank you, Member. It's time to tell you when the exam is going to be, whether he's going to be at all, and not put all the stress on all those who are taking part in education today, which isn't happening at all, because remote education is fiction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u76	Mr Bogusław Wontor from the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question for the Minister and the applicants. Are the solutions contained in the draft law applicable in other countries and, in the context of this, what are the solutions in other countries in the world? Second question. What do local government corporations think about this bill, or are they against it or are they against it? And the third question. Would the solutions that are proposed help to undo these pushes between government and government: is there too little or enough money for education? Isn't it worthwhile to support these solutions to end this war and the bang between the government and the government in this regard? Minister! Isn't it worth it, as it does, among others. Left, listen to the environment of education if so many signatures have been collected? Shouldn't we move on, as the committee president said, to a good procession (the bell) and seriously lean on this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, sir, because you're still Marshal Zgorzelski... No, no, I'll send for you. Good. You're welcome. What about my formal conclusion? But please, you have one minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A formal conclusion in your memory, a proposal that the marshal doesn't take into account, I'll say in a moment: persistently. But in the meantime, the question. Your predecessor, Minister, from the same formation, the same group of reconstructions of historical sanation, in the first months, for even weeks, said her office publicly, with concern to answer the question of domestic teaching: Well, that's a problem, children are leaking out of our system. That's what she said. This is stuck in my memory, because we Confederates advise that we increase this leak from the system, counteract the conformation, gleichhaltate Polish young hearts and minds. As you look at this case, home schooling just in the fight against a sensitive virus, when the state school went bankrupt. as an idea, as an institutional solution? Don't you feel obliged to hurry today with the help of those who are hindered by heartless zoning by teaching their children their own comforts?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski. You're welcome. Polish People's Party Club, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the presidents! High Izbo! The proposal to pay teachers' salaries in the form of grants actually backs us in the idea of developing self-government, because actually such solutions took place in the 1990s. But there is the truth of time and the truth of the screen, and it turned out that the temptation of central government is to save up to this extent, in a special way on the education that today local governments simply have to add more and more resources to education in municipalities, powiats and voivodships. In 2017 it was already 3 billion PLN, in 2018 and 2019. - More than that. Therefore, can it be made clear who is responsible for the remuneration: the director, the local government or the minister? This question (the bell) was not answered by the president. Maybe I can get a minister from you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u82	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the presidents! High Izbo! This project should have started four years ago. For four years, local authorities had to deal with financial problems in order to properly finance education so that this education would be at the right, appropriate level. With current data, from 2020, I would like to use concrete examples, namely: in Bydgoszcz only 63% of education subsidies will be covered. expenditure on education, in the municipality of Wiacbork, that is the district of Sępoleński, will run out of 9300 thousand. for education, in the Country Stone - 1,5 million, in Sośno - almost 2,600 thousand, in Sępólno Krajńskiego - 6,900 thousand, in the Sępolenski district itself - more than 3,5 million. Question for the Prime Minister. Taking the black scenario that this law will not be passed (The Bell) and will not enter into force - how the government intends to take care of local governments and support them in these actions in order to actually... Thank you very much, Member. ...the realization of these educational tasks was at the right level? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u84	Now Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! Question to the applicant country: What impact do you think the proposed solutions will have on small rural schools? Is it true that these solutions will save the small rural schools at risk today? Two more words to the government side. We are at the point of education, and in education, as we learn, authority is important. In recent weeks, it may be felt that the central authority of the government party is the WHO World Health Organization. And it's a good thing he's the authority. In politics, you have to be driven by knowledge, not fanaticism. And that is why I would like to remind the government that the World Health Organization, which Law and Justice have been so eager to invoke in recent weeks, clearly indicates that every woman should have the right to a safe and legal abortion. Ladies and gentlemen! You considered the WHO your authority. Please, I demand and appeal on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Polish women, that during the vote on the barbaric draft of the ban on abortion you remember your authority (the bell), remember what the World Health Organization says about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u86	You were wrong about the subject we're discussing right now. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u87	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President! Minister! For starters, thank you very much, first of all, to the President, for his stubbornness. And I have a question for the Minister. Minister, we're from one voivodship. Recently you were a self-government officer and you know very well what the problems of Polish self-government are. You know exactly what millions of local governments in the West Pomeranian region pay for. Today we must finally tell this government: I am checking the intentions of the Polish government towards teachers in relation to the dignity of this profession. Dear Minister, You really have to stop. cheat that you provide adequate resources, salaries for teachers, and take responsibility. Perhaps it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to go further so that this teacher is a public official, so that we can finally stop talking about the fiction that we have, unfortunately, for many years here, in this parliament, but the government is also talking about it today. The Member said (The bell) that it should be the local government that should be responsible for this. No, ladies and gentlemen, this country is from the point of view of providing decent salaries for Polish teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u88	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Borys, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u89	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if it's the result of global warming, or if it's formal, that you've defrosted such an important bill after four years. Local governments are waiting today for a big stream of finance. Financial resources are severely reduced in the pandemic. I would like to remind you that the authorities that group local governments - in January 2019 the Association of Polish Cities, in April 2019 the Union of Polish Powiatów, in September 2019 the association of rural communities - called for salaries to be paid to teachers just by the state, because the state is shaping the pay policy of Polish teachers today. After the moments when you devastated Polish middle school with a deformity of education, when you looked at the teachers who were on strike with contempt, today is the time to lean on Polish teachers and adopt this bill, because at the end they are local governments, which are in huge financial difficulties today, will have a problem with the quality of education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The quality of education for all must be the same, and we therefore believe that this project should be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u90	Thank you very much. Last question - Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the presidents! Allow me to express and accept the recognition that with such determination and ease you have gathered the 340 thousand. signatures under your legislative initiative. Please accept, on behalf of my colleagues in the Civic Coalition, my condolences that you had only five minutes to present this project. Ladies and gentlemen! After 4 years, the parliamentary majority returns to this project at such a difficult time when Poles are shaking about their health, their loved ones. Once again, the parliamentary majority wants to deal with teachers for good. As has already been said many times today, education subsidies are insufficient and are underestimated. Local governments have many problems with other important tasks. In Grudziądz itself, from which I come, every year the local government has to add about PLN 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1 September 2020, teachers' salaries are expected to increase. Unfortunately, the PiS votes will not be even since 1 January 2020. Basic question: Where is the budget saved for raises for teachers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u92	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of members of the vote. Mr Maciej Kopeć has now the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very happy for all the voices that have come out here today. On the basis of the comments of the representatives of the clubs, I can assume that this project will continue to be conducted. From here, I may refer not to all the details of this project, but to the most important issues. Of course, I am looking at the same project - and you have said many times that it is primarily incompatible with the legal order that is in force today. That's one thing. It was also said today that these calculations are incomplete and incorrect, so it is difficult to relate to details. The justification for this project is incomplete, too. It is also difficult to say whether this project actually gives competence to make all implementing acts on its basis. Above all, however, this concerns, for example, the issue of grants or places where 100% is mentioned. grants, when the rules do not really allow it, and references do not exist. But I believe this discussion is still ahead of us, hence I will not refer to the details of this project. However, there are many different phrases that need to be addressed here. Poland invests a lot in education. In 2017 Poland allocated 4,9% its GDP for education, with an average of 4.6% of the Union. 11.9% were allocated to education Total general government expenditure, with an average of 10.2% of the Union. It was also mentioned, and this is also in the explanatory memorandum, about small schools. First of all, it has to be said that a major change was the restoration of the curator's powers to assess the liquidation of schools by local governments, because it is important to remember that thousands of schools had been liquidated before and tens of thousands of teachers lost their jobs. However, you can of course look at the financial elements that support small schools. If we just analyze them, in 2019 where we have a special weight, the support was 251 million. Additional funds are also spent on small local governments that run schools. If we look at this, in 2019 it was 3 billion PLN, in 2019 it is a special weight for less prosperous local governments and those that run small schools. In 2019 this is the amount of 220 million. On the one hand, we are talking about the curator's competence in shaping the school network, on the other hand we are also talking about special support for those self-governments who are making an effort, the difficulty of running schools or an extensive school network. Another issue, of course, is the one we are discussing - teachers' salaries. In fact, teachers' salaries stood on 1 September 2012 and since then we have had an increase in these salaries, which started to take place from wage valorisation in 2017, through 2018, 2019, by 21.2%. In fact, if you look at this, in 2012 the basic salary of the diplomat is PLN 3109, currently - 3817, and in 2012 so-called. The average remuneration is 5 000, in 2020, 6141. So we also see here a rather important change that has taken place. Of course, there is also additional support, for example for raising a class of at least 300 PLN or support for trainee teachers. One important change in school funding is also the issue of subsidising 6-year-olds in kindergarten. This is important support. This support between 2017 and 2019 is PLN 4.7 billion. But this is also a pre-school grant, remember, because here in many statements it is often forgotten that this support should actually concern (the bell) the issue of the financing of kindergartens by the local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u94	Thank you very much, Minister, thank you very much. Now a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Sławomir Broniar, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, if the system worked, no one here would try to revolutionize. But the system just doesn't work. I'm talking about the subsidy model. And that's why we're tempted to make these changes. And since local governments invest about 25% in education the value of the subsidy amount, it is clearly visible how it is a large expense. I don't know how much time I have, Marshal... Five minutes. You're welcome. Then I'll start with the Minister. Minister, you haven't read this project, you haven't read it, because if you had read it, you wouldn't have told me, I'm sorry, those things we had to listen to, and I regret. Even if you are tempted for macro data and quote that we spend on education as a country, recognising everyone, all the actors in this area, 11,9% , let me remind you that the government in its budget has saved 2.31 for education. That's the difference, that's all that parents and local governments add, which together as a society we invest in education. But the government, giving local governments a subsidy of 40 billion, is consciously moving all the tasks to JST. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this law does not agree with reality today, but if I had the opportunity to read the entire justification, you would know that we are pointing out those areas which must be revised on the basis of the current legislation. And there's no doubt about that here. We are not accused - and I hope we will not be accused - of ahistorism in this regard. On the other hand, I cannot share your rhetoric, which as a live reference to Anna Zalewska's rhetoric, which said that local governments have their own income, even 500+. We all know, and in this room, the state especially, that 500+ it came in and out, and the local governments can't use it for other purposes. But I am pleased that you have a very serious attitude towards this document, and I hope that we will express it in the committee. Thank you, Minister, for your words, the memory of teachers. I hope that these events during last year's strike in the context of the quality of education can also be used. If Mr Dziambor says that we should invest in the best specialist, I will remind you, and the Minister confirmed it a second ago, that this best specialist earns less than in large-scale shops, of course I am not talking about very hardworking ladies who deserve it, but it seems worth it for a person who has a few faculty and a teacher who has a diploma in his CV to earn more than 3800. However, if the Member says, I quote that the teacher is sitting at school, I hope, Mr President, that you are not describing your career, because that would be a really difficult thing to accept. If Mr Braun says that education should be marketed, that it should be given back, it is about the issue of education vouchers, and the introduction of home education, then I would like to say that this is a simple way for us to divide this society into those who can afford it, and for the whole huge part that cannot afford it. That's bullshit, that's bullshit, that's bullshit. If you have a different opinion on this, try to prove it and put it into practice. You have the opportunity to do so as a Member, but I do not. Be a marshal and give me the floor. I would also like to say, Mr Wontor, that, indeed, if Poland tried to implement this, it would be one of many European countries, and I quote it in my explanatory statement. It is about the countries of the European Union such as Lithuania, Latvia, Slovenia, which of course have different organisational models for the functioning of education, but none of these models leave the teacher at the mercy of the host body alone. And that's what I think we should do too. If we do not support small schools, Commissioner, these small schools will either be eliminated or will be the consequence of privatisation of education by trying to hand them over to foundations, associations, and in fact this will be at the expense of teachers and the deterioration of the public education offer for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these comments and thank you for listening carefully to our justification. I repeat: I have not had the opportunity to fully present these several pages, but I believe in this, I firmly believe that the Committee on Education, Science and Youth will really be interested in the fact that education is the apple of power, and at the same time there are not those bullyings that you and your fellow Members have spoken of between the government and the local government. We all create the state and we all are responsible for this education, but let us be aware that there are local governments who simply cannot afford to make any of their own budget available for this education, and this, I repeat, worsens the educational offer of local government units with regard to what their task is. It's worth talking about, too. Mr Boris spoke about local corporations. Local government companies (the bell) in 2019 supported this project, for which I warmly thank them. Thank you, Marshal, for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u96	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the amendment of the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws, contained in print No 33, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Member with a formal request. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u97	Honourable Mr. Marshal! I have a motion to change the way the discussion is conducted. Consider the fact, Mr. Marshal, that the system that the Sejm Bureau wished to use was not functioning. It is a fact that the honourable Member representing the club PSL-Kukiz15 was not heard here in the High House all the time. I understand we'll all agree arbitraryly... I, sir, have heard very well. Mr. Marshal, please use the ad rem procedure, do not interrupt Members' speeches, okay? Please ad vocem speak out, by the book. We agree arbitrally that what we have not heard was less important in the speech of the Member. Is this the way the High House is supposed to function, that interference in the electronic communications system will be adopted as a force higher, a feat of God, and therefore we will accept in advance that some of our colleagues' speeches go to the basket? Please change the way you discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u98	Thank you. It wasn't a formal conclusion. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law - Hunting Law (print No 49). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Dariusz Starowicz to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome. Have you been informed that you have five minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u99	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This problem that we wanted to raise today concerns the participation of children in hunting, children, young people up to the age of 18. A few years ago, children's welfare was taken into account in order to limit their participation in the hunt, to introduce the age limit. This was argued with, among other things, that the child has a certain sensitivity and therefore, when he is still young, he is not very old, he is not properly shaped and hence the view as shocking as it was then argued, on the hunt he may cause some psychological trauma. That's what was done, that rule was introduced. But the question is, what does it look like in the world? What does it look like in other countries? We have made a report that covers all European countries, as well as Australia, Canada, the United States, that is, those countries that are in the circle of Western civilization, and it turns out that there are no such records in any country, there is no such thing. In some countries, children aged 10 may be actively involved in hunting, in some United States, with guns. In Europe, e.g. In Sweden, unattended, unsupervised children who are 15 years old are hunting with guns, and we have such strict rules in place. What does that tell you? What's going on here? Do they not care for the welfare of children in Western Europe or in the world? Don't they care if the child's psyche isn't crooked? Turns out, High Izbo, the problem is a little different. Scientific research explains this. Here I would like to refer to Professor Dietmar Heubrock's opinion, director of the Institute of Law Psychology at the University of Bremen, which explains this in such a way that children are not involved in hunting. These are children of hunters who have been raised since their youngest years in such a tradition, according to such customs. It's a little bit like with the kids in the country who know where the chicken comes from, that you have to kill the chicken to make that chicken soup. If we had taken a child out of town, it would have been an amazing trauma. And in this context, all the arguments concerning... I would like to rely on scientific research here. There is a very interesting paper published e.g. in The Journal of Experimental Social Psychology on aggression among hunters and non-thinkers. It turns out that aggression among hunters is at a lower level than that of the others. Ladies and gentlemen! So we can summarize this topic in this way: we are based on scientific research on the world, and with us we are based on opinions. As we know, every Pole always has an opinion, according to the principles of Mr Stanisław Tym: I do not know about it, I will gladly speak. These opinions, which we often deal with, are not the opinions of those who conduct research. It's not like they've been researched, they've taken a bunch of hunters' kids who are involved in the hunt, and some other bunch of hunters, and they've been compared to what it's like, whether there's really a mental problem here or not. That's not how you do it, there's no such thing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, here's the question: Okay, has anyone asked the children? What do all the kids say? I've had this adventure with one professor. He expressed such a negative opinion. I checked. There's no scientific publication of it. I called him, and I said, "Okay, but on what grounds?" He says, "I know." We can't argue like this, it's not gonna work out, which is what I'm saying... It is not about opinions, we also have a lot of opinions, but it is about having hard facts, so that we have really, you can say, serious arguments in the discussion. If we don't, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of problems. The Minister of the Environment is responsible because he is a governing body for forest schools, 11 forest technicians are subject to the Ministry of the Environment. In forest techniques there are pupils aged 14 and 16 who in the first or second grade are subject to hunting, it depends on whether it is an old programming basis or a new one, 30 and 40 hours. And it turns out they can't go hunting. They're hunted, but they can't participate in the hunt because there's no way, because they're forbidden by the law. In all this, ladies and gentlemen, one can get the impression that this problem we are talking about, with children, is a slightly broader problem. He does not generally concern children, but this is an attempt to discredit the work of hunters. Hunting is bad, reprehensible, and we should put an end to it. We often rely on such a stereotypical look and it's negative. I would call for us to approach this in a substantive, not emotional way. I strongly ask you to support this proposal for hunters, because it is based on scientific arguments, not on non-essential opinions that are expressed without scientific grounds, to vote in favour of our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u100	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first Mr Dariusz Olszewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u101	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the law - Hunting Law introduced by the Committee of the Initiative on the Law of the Loving Tradition during the 8th term of the Sejm pursuant to Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens, in accordance with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It should be noted that the very fact that we are dealing with today's citizens' draft amendment of the law shows that it enjoys a lot of support and social interest, the best evidence of which is the number of more than 100,000. signatures of persons expressing their support for this initiative. It concerns people associated with the Polish Hunting Union, whose activity is based on the social activity of members operating the hunting economy in leased circuits. Polish hunters participate, among others. in the process of restoring to the natural environment such valuable and endangered species of animals as bison, elk, lynx or migratory falcon. They cooperate with government and local authorities in the field of environmental protection, as well as carrying out publishing and exhibition activities as well as breeding activities. It should also be emphasized that the Polish Hunting Union brings together more than 128 thousand. persons who contribute to the prevention of the spread of African swine fever, which threatens Polish farmers through the sanitary fire of feral pigs. Ladies and gentlemen! Thought is part of the culture and tradition of Polish society. Often, families, the local community, for which it has an educational dimension, as well as an integration dimension, are involved in the activities of individual circles. Parents want to interest their children in hunting and pass this passion on to the next generation. They want to do so primarily with great concern for their children and their safety, as well as in accordance with Polish law. That is why we meet the expectations of our parents, bearing in mind the Constitution's provisions. Article 2 48 (1) and Article. 53 (3) in which we can, inter alia, read, quote: Parents have the right to raise their children according to their own beliefs. This education should take into account the child's maturity. Parents have the right to provide their children with moral education and education. End of quote. For the sake of proper development of hunting and hunting in Poland, we see the need to update the Law of Hunting. At the same time, it should be noted that the proposed changes to the proposal to introduce the possibility of hunting in the presence or with the participation of children up to the age of 18 with the consent of parents or legal guardians must absolutely guarantee the safety of children during the hunt, during which they must remain under the constant and direct care of parents or legal guardians. The educational dimension of hunting, of course, is also important and undeniable, but must be adapted to the age of minors. It should also be stressed that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice implements all the electoral promises and commitments made to the Polish society. We will consider any citizens' proposal to amend the law introduced in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. In fulfilling this commitment, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice proposes that the proposed proposal be submitted by the Legislative Initiative Committee to the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry for further consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u102	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Małgorzata Tracz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's be clear. Today, we are not debating whether permission for children to participate in hunting is the exercise of the right to raise children according to parents' conviction. Today we are debating whether, as a society, we accept the participation of children in the brutal and cruel entertainment of adults, the entertainment of a group of adults who are going hunting to kill in mass and without any selection for fun in the name of a brutal and cruel tradition. We are talking about entertainment, which, by the very fact of being bystanders, creates danger for these people. This was recently justified by the prohibition of obstruction of hunting. The project applicants in the explanatory memorandum and today in the Parliament's Chamber have raised some completely unconvincing arguments. First, applicants say that hunting is bringing a young man out of the virtual world and bringing him into the real world, from a virtual world, full of online hats, pornography, violent computer games, into the real world, where he kills himself by slitting the throats of a wounded animal who feels pain and suffers, as he shows, whimpering and crying, into the real world, where he patronizes the killed animal, cutting his body apart, which then ritually settles and marks himself into a world of cruelty and brutality, from which every mother and father wants to protect their children from whom we want to protect our children as a society. If it weren't, it would be the norm to organize school trips to the slaughterhouse. Secondly, applicants say that hunting is for young people learning to make choices consciously. Does a young child make a conscious choice as parents urge them to hunt because it will be fun? Does the sight of a mother or father who kills with satisfaction a shot animal or eviscerate a killed animal really teach a young child to make a conscious choice? I doubt it. Thirdly, applicants say that hunting allows young people to explore nature's secrets directly and authentically. Does it really have to be an authentic and direct exploration of nature's secrets when hunting with a tail? Does it have to be about killing this nature by shooting at it? Can't you, like in every ordinary family, just take the kids for a walk in the woods, for a trip to the national park, so they can watch wild animals through binoculars, not a shotgun bow tie? Finally, applicants justify these changes to implement their constitutional right to raise children in accordance with the parents' beliefs, the right to pass on their traditions and passions to them. Ladies and gentlemen, Art. 72. 1 of the Constitution states: The Republic of Poland ensures the protection of the rights of the child. Everyone has the right to ask public authorities to protect their children from violence, cruelty, exploitation and demoralisation. The principle of protection of the rights and welfare of the child, as expressed in this article, is an overriding principle. As a Polish state and society, we have a duty to protect children from the violence and cruelty of hunting, from demoralization and toxic socialization, which results from their participation in hunting, from teaching hostility to animals. This is what people expect, who do not support this tradition and disagree with it, because the fact that something has been a tradition for decades or hundreds of years does not mean that it is the only reason why it deserves to be preserved and protected. It's the 21st century. The world has moved on. The ability to kill animals is not the ability to survive. Today we also know more, much more, about animals, about their behaviors, about how they also feel fear and pain. Today we know much more about how children's psyche is shaped by such brutal and cruel experiences. Therefore, let us listen to experts from the Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Ombudsman, the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, who support the ban on children's participation in hunting. Let's read a letter from NGOs - Labs for All Beings, Coalition Let them Live!, UNICEF - letter with an appeal to reject this project. Let us listen to the opinion of the national prosecutor, who expressed it clearly and clearly, and I quote: in my opinion, the proposal for normative changes covered by the project does not deserve to be accepted. As the Civic Coalition Club, we will always put children's welfare first, their right to develop free from violence, cruelty and demoralization. We will therefore vote against this draft law at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm making a proper request to your marshal. Let us protect the welfare of children, not violent and cruel traditions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska will speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u105	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today is the day of a series of barbaric projects, projects to shut us down in the dungeons of the Middle Ages. Now we are talking about a project that will enable children to participate in hunting, and in a moment we will talk about how to deprive women of their rights, because this is what Ordo Iuris wants, which comes from a Brazilian sect known as one of the most active pseudo-Catholic organizations in the world. We will also talk about how to deprive children of sexual education. I will only mention one thing: the behaviour of a paedophile from the New Market, whose paedophile acts came to light thanks to sexual education lessons, because when the teacher started talking about how children who are being treated are being pedophiliad, the children said: and that's what a priest is doing to us on trips. Now we have the first project in a series of barbaric today's projects. It's a project that says kids can go hunting. He assumes that any child will be allowed to participate in the hunt with the consent of his parents. So there will be a five-year-old, an eight-year-old, a ten-year-old boy who could be involved in killing animals, tracking them, killing them, skinning them, gutting them, quartering them and exposing them to the rooms. This project removes children of hunters and hunters from the law and allows them to say: I have the right to give my children violence without considering their maturity, just because they are my children. As a Left, we disagree. We believe that it is important to act in accordance with the Constitution and protect children from violence, and not to allow them to participate in practices that are not adapted to their age. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that upbringing should take into account the degree of maturity of the child. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 72 written directly: The Republic of Poland provides protection of the rights of the child. Everyone has the right to demand that public authorities protect the child from violence and cruelty. The prohibition on children's participation in hunting is also laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (2) of the Animal Protection Act, which provides: It shall be prohibited to slaughter or kill vertebrate animals with or in the presence of children. This project is contrary to the applicable law, contrary to the rights of the child. Psychologists, educators, experts, NGOs, the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, UNICEF, speak against this project. Previously, for banning children's participation in hunting, they spoke, among others. the then spokesperson for the rights of the child, the Ministry of National Education, the Committee of Psychology and the Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences. As a Left, we believe in a just state, a state that respects the Constitution and protects people, especially the weakest. As a Left, we speak of violence and we are always on the weakest side. We remind you that the child is human, not the property of the parents. The hunter's child is not the property of the hunters. Therefore, arguing that a parent has the right to show his children cruelty, killing, skinning against the general knowledge that it can harm the child's psyche is a damage to the child. Hunting is not an outdoor amusement park. Animals in the woods aren't animals on a merry-go-round in a carnival. Killing is not a game or a game. Hunting is killing animals. It's a whole range of different kinds of customs, violent, bloody, dead animals and suffering. That is why we speak decisively. Hunting not for children. The only thing that comes to mind that could rationalize this project is that it is meant to serve the current government, which is so inefficiently introducing an anti-crisis shield that maybe it's time to go back to the Middle Ages, maybe soon we should be whole tribes, whole families going hunting, picking up roots to feed our families. Let him win stronger, more violent. That's what this project seems to be talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a Left, we apply to reject this draft law in its entirety at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u106	Thank you, Member. We have difficulties in connection with Mr Andrzej Mushroom. Therefore, Mr Michał Urbaniak from the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like the Left and the Civic Coalition to speak in the same way and with the same fierceness about young people, those not yet born, as you are fighting for animal rights today. Moving on to the point. For thousands of years, fathers hunted with their descendants to feed their families. For centuries on hunts, young people learned to be fit, made physical life, understanding of nature, and respect for nature and elements, which are also important. Today hunting has a slightly different specificity, but it is still a passion for thousands of people. It is also a useful branch, such useful activity, because hunters are also tasked with regulating the ecosystem. This is because it is often thanks to them that equilibrium is maintained in the ecosystem, which is very important. Today, we are working on a project that aims to change so that young people can go hunting with their parents or carers, the right project. Well, parents will actually be able to decide how to raise their children. Furthermore, it is ridiculous that we are only investigating this today. After all, it is quite natural that young people are also learning hunting. Therefore, such a project already dozens, at least a dozen years ago should have passed through this House and been voted on yes. So as a Confederation, we think that this project should go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u108	Thank you. Is Mr Braun... He's coming. ...use the rest of the time? He's here. You're welcome. There's still time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Designers! Glory to the bounty! The Confederation greets hunters, Poles, compatriots who cultivate traditions, so it is, Polish, national, freedom, in this extraordinary way. Not everyone is willing to submit to the discipline that hunting practices impose on them. It is, of course, a bunch of crap, what we heard here earlier from this stand from the mouth of the left, this red and this pink left. These are people who do not know what they say when they speak about Polish history. But that's the charm of the situation. We confederates, with some fear, speak in this matter, so unambiguously in favour of this obvious in a way that does not raise the slightest doubts, the necessary correction of Polish law. I say with some fear, because whatever we stand for here, whatever we stand for, the PiS throws all our constructive conclusions and corrections down there from the subway, so I'm afraid it won't happen this time. Nevertheless, the truth must be borne out. In this case, the truth is that, aside from this very correct argument with the calculation of species of animals, whose behaviour we owe to the conduct of activities also by Polish hunters, we go down to the basics here, we go down to the root. That root is civilized law. There is no Latin civilization where parental rights are not respected, where parental rights are under various Pharisaic pretexts devoted to the totaliztic dictatorship that goes from above. And while the Law and Justice and the appetizers are willing to make such a dictatorship here, I hope that, however, the voice of the environment, so numerous, normal Poles, who are also expanding it, must be noted, the defensive potential of the state by enlarging the young generation in the arkana of handling firearms... It's free. The state does not pay for this, the defence budget is not burdened with it, and the history of the Republic of Poland we have a tradition, ladies and gentlemen, kurpiowski shooters (Dzwonek), which no one has trained, but from childhood they have been trained in forests, in bords.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u110	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Again, then: the gift! I hope this project is accepted. I'm sure 11 members of the Confederacy will be voted in favour. Thank you very much. We will try to connect with Mr Andrzej Grzyb from the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. Unfortunately, we don't have a connection. Does anyone from the Polish People's Party want to speak? Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! Minister! The subject that was presented today is very delicate. It's about a sphere that... I am convinced that this is dictated by the greatest responsibility of those whom some today speak of as barbarians. We are probably very much divided in this seym when it comes to the approach to Polish hunting, to tradition. This is somewhat understandable because we represent very different political camps. But surely, ladies and gentlemen, good hunting law is needed in Poland. Is that what it is today? Are farmers today confident that the compensations that are being charged are properly carried out? Is it fair to determine the level of losses? Ladies and gentlemen, certainly not. Free game is owned by the State Treasury. Are you fully responsible for this game? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Unfortunately, that's what happens. The annual losses suffered by farmers are such that the conflict between farmers and hunting circles is increasing from year to year. The Polish state, ladies and gentlemen, is unable to answer for what it should be responsible for. Unfortunately, for many years, he has been trying to make inefficient changes to the Hunting Law. In fact, everyone knows what needs to be done, but no one can, ladies and gentlemen, approach this in the right way. The case that the applicants brought in today, as I said, is very delicate. On the other hand, looking at whether Poland can get rid of Polish hunting... However to see, perhaps further along, the lack of transmission of these traditions may reduce this hunting to some extent. I will not answer that question, ladies and gentlemen, which line should this be when it comes to age. I am convinced that every hunter is certainly a responsible man, and the welfare of his children is supreme. This is a very difficult subject, ladies and gentlemen. Probably in many countries, it's a lot of things to deal with. I'm sure we won't find any goldware. The question is, at the time we're here, should we be doing this? Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Poles expect one of us to talk about their health, about securing hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, people working there, because we hear more and more tragic information about welfare homes. This is definitely one of the elements that Poles are waiting for. The second, ladies and gentlemen, Poles, Polish entrepreneurs are no longer active for nearly a month. In their heads, in their homes there are various difficult questions, questions about the future, about functioning, whether they will have something to feed their children for in a moment. And that is the highest responsibility that Parliament should be doing today. Maybe we'll have a 3.0, 4.0 target coming up. Ladies and gentlemen, many of these solutions have been introduced too late. How many businesses could be saved? Much more. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what Poles expect us to do today. To take care of those things that are most important from their point of view, so that we do not lead, ladies and gentlemen, to any tragedy. This is a very dangerous thing about what's going on today. Ladies and gentlemen! I also respect all applicants very much, all those whose projects will be discussed today, but the Polish Parliament, the Polish Sejm today should deal with what is most important for Poles and Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u112	Thank you. I would like to inform you that we are dealing with this civil project because the time has passed for this to be done. You couldn't take care of him any longer. You should have done it faster, not at the last minute. It is precisely because of the problems that the pandemic has created that we have not dealt with in recent months. Pandemic's been around for a month. Let's get to the questions. I am, of course, closing the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. As the first Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u113	Dear Marshal, Fellow Members! This bill is de facto rape on the delicate psyche of a child. I don't think there is a responsible psychologist in Poland who would have said otherwise. I have a question as to whether you have become acquainted with the opinions of outstanding Polish experts who have just claimed that this project is rape on the delicate psyche of the child. Please note that even in the case of computer games, signs of violence and the age of the child from which he can enjoy the game are used. And you want to transfer this violence from the virtual world to the real world. You write that you have been deprived of the right to raise children in love with nature. Really? Dead nature, I guess. You write that you don't teach children to kill for pleasure. But let me ask you this: If we skip the sanitary discharge, what is hunting if we don't kill animals (the bell) for pleasure? My question is, what is the limit of age at all? Because you want your children to participate in drastic scenes marked by violence. Thank you, Member. Children who don't know where life comes from yet, but you already want them to know where death comes from. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u114	And now the question is asked by Mr Bogusław Wontor, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Dear Applicants! My first question to the applicants is: How is killing different from hunting? Second question. Applicants have talked a lot about solutions adopted in other countries where children can participate in hunting. I have a question: Are there countries in Europe where people under the age of 18 cannot participate in hunting? And one last question. Are there countries in Europe where there are no hunting unions where there are no hunters? If such countries are, how is forest policy implemented then? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u116	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u117	Dear Marshal, Dear Applicants! I have one fundamental question about age, because here we are talking about under 18 years of age. There was a paradoxical situation of education in schools, where it is impossible to deepen knowledge, what it is learning. On the other hand, I would like to ask the applicants what age you think is the age which could in any way be taken into account for the start. But there's no age in the project. I asked you that, too. Therefore, this is the only question I would like to ask applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u119	It's unbelievable what we hear here today from the left. The left assumes that a 16-year-old girl can kill her own child, but she can't go hunting with her father and kill a rabbit and even watch her kill a rabbit. The Left assumes that it's bad for a child to watch a hunt, but it's not bad for an abortion. Parents may spend their child with impunity to death according to the Left, but they cannot show the child the hunt because a year in prison is at risk. These absurdities result from the fact that such urban pimps who do not know life, people who have never seen a chicken kill, are susceptible to the effect of Bambi. Therefore, they have such an idyllic vision of nature, they are the natural background of the electorate of the Left. So the Left, because she doesn't have children, plans to scrape out her own, wants to raise others and hence her natural urge to do so. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... I have a question for the applicants. Why don't you remove this outrageous point... This is a scandal, Marshal. Would you please calm down? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll be talking in a minute. You're done. Why don't you remove this outrageous point, just try to correct it? Thank you very much. I'd like to make a formal request. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition. This is ridiculous. A crime without victims that causes people to be sent to prison for nothing. What did you call us? City pimps? Where are you? In the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u120	Madam, please calm down and sit where you are. May I, Marshal? You're welcome, my fellow Member. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition. Hit the table, the pimps will talk. Can I make a formal request? In a minute, when we're done with this point. Why do you agree to this kind of behavior in the plenary room of the Sejm? I'm trying to react to inappropriate behavior. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of children's participation in hunting has already been the subject of the work of the Sejm several years before. It was then considered that the participation of children in hunting is highly detrimental to the development of their psyche. The same views were expressed by experts and psychologists. Psychologist and psychotherapist Wojciech Eichelberger found that the participation of children in killing animals hurts and deformities their natural sensitivity and capacity for compassion and empathy and respect for the natural world. I would like to ask the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, who, in his speech of 18 March 2018 addressed to the chairmen of the Sejm and Senate committee, stated that he fully supports the solutions adopted in the field of hunting involving children. The same spokesperson stated that he was opposed to any violence-promoting activity likely to violate the harmonious development of the child. What were the reasons behind this position, Mr. Spokesman? Has your position changed with regard to the admissibility of children's participation in hunting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u122	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. I'd like you to read these psychologists today, these experts, who said that the attraction for a child is to kill a deer, [[Applause]] wild boar or bird, because there is no such information in your justification. I'd like to know which of your experts from your psychologists says it's okay. Name these people here. And to Marshal Terlecki, I would like to remind you that if someone challenges other people in the courtroom, especially our voters, it is your dog's duty to draw attention to that person. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u124	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u125	Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I have a question. Why do you want to destroy the natural bond that exists between children and animals? Children and animals speak the same language, children understand our smaller brothers without using words. Everyone in whose family there was an animal knows that. The teaching of killing is the destruction of this natural spiritual kinship, it is the killing of the inherent empathy that children feed to every living being. Many studies have shown that a child is raised better in the presence of animals, but in the presence of living animals, not when it looks at their slow death. There is a reason in fairy tales that animals are the carriers of values, teaching children how to be a good person. Have you ever wondered why that is? It's important to remember that hunters don't kill because they're hungry because they're cold. They kill because they like 'cause they get sick satisfaction from it. And that, sadists, you want to teach your own children? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shame. We're not authorized to do that. Thank you. You just said yourself not to use words like that. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u126	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This debate and, I think, just now this discussion has shown that this debate is actually about something completely different. She's about respect for the world around us. I think that what Mr Sosnierz has just presented is the best proof that two civilizations are really fighting here today: civilization of those who believe that children should be taught respect for nature, to the forest, to the world around us, to animals, and the second civilization that says: no, let's kill, basically raise children in the climate of killing animals, disrespect for nature. Today we're actually facing a choice which way we're going. We choose the path of respect for nature, respect for the world around us, because it is really a fight today, not for our future, but for the future of our children and our grandchildren. And let's vote for that way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u128	Mr Andrzej Grzyb has joined us and will ask us a question. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! I was supposed to be acting on behalf of the club... I don't know if that's possible right now. The club's statement has already been made, but you may ask a question. I would like to ask the designers of this initiative whether, in addition to the formal legal issues they raise here, they consider it possible to consider other age categories than the entire age range up to 18. I'd like to point out one thing here. Since the age of 18, I am sorry, since 16 years of age, and here, when it comes to hunting, there is a ban on hunting for children, as well as young people up to 18 years of age. So the question is whether this change in age category is an option. Secondly, I have a question as to whether Poland is the only country in Europe that introduced such regulations in 2018, which restrict access or the right of children, taking children hunting as well. These hunts are not only of a collective nature, but may also be of an individual character (the Bell).
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u130	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I would like the floor of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Minister Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I mean, there wasn't a government representative scheduled to speak, but... In all this discussion today, when we listen to you, when we care about the welfare of animals, when we talk about respect, also to another person, at the same time I think that it is a disgraceful accusation against hunters, against the representatives of sadism applicants. What's that? I would like to say that the Polish state has put specific tasks on hunters. Killing defenseless animals. And these tasks are carried out in accordance with their obligation. They work for the benefit of farmers, protecting their crops, also regulating the size of the game. I would very much ask that in the midst of this stream of very good words in defence of everyone around us, that suddenly, towards a group of hunters, you Members use words that, in my opinion, have gone beyond the limits of good culture. There's no permission to do that. Which Members? Tell me. Madame, this is not a discussion, you are not on the committee. You're in plenary. The Minister has the floor. Secretary of State, Ministry of Climate Małgorzata Golińska: Ladies and gentlemen! The question was also: How many countries in Europe have statutory bans on children on hunting? We have verified this and it turns out that Poland is the only European country which he has legally banned in the course of hunting for people under the age of 18. In Germany, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Romania, Slovenia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, as well as Lithuania and Italy, there is no lower age limit for a person to take passive part in the hunt. And this is the answer to one of the questions that have been asked to the applicants, and because I have this knowledge, I wanted to give it to them. It's totally personal now. I wonder how you can, when you talk about hunters, compare them to pedophilia. Who said that? One of the speeches was directly about pedophilia. How do you even put that in a single sentence? Who put it together? Listen to me. That's what happened. But don't disturb me. Secretary of State, Ministry of Climate Małgorzata Golińska: One last thing. Today, too, we are talking about defending the youngest and the most vulnerable. You're talking about it here, from this podium. At the same time, you'll be talking about the possibility of abortion. Thank you. [[Applause]] This is an ideological occurrence. It's political.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u132	Mr President, there is still a reply from your representative, Mr Dariusz Starowicz, and then a formal proposal from the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ended my speech with such words that a dispute or discussion about children is included in the broader context, the context of a certain reluctance to hunters and hunters. This dislike for hunters and hunters is often based on such an emotional approach, and from what I hear here, these statements are not based on knowledge. If we use the words cruelty, barbarism, it means that we don't have much knowledge of what this hunting looks like at all, what it looks like elsewhere at all. And that's the first thing. The second point is whether hunting or reduction is necessary at all. What country doesn't hunt? You don't hunt in the Vatican. But in what countries, there is no animal reduction elsewhere? In all of them... But we're not talking about hunting at all, we're talking about children. But listen, at least you'll find out something. Don't disturb me, Member. You'll find out something. We're talking about... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please don't disturb me. Listen to me for a second. Then talk about it. I'm talking about it. Madam, I would like to draw your attention once again. Stop it. We are talking about the context of children being included in the broader context. You believe that hunting is barbaric, that it is cruel, and that we are putting the child at risk to participate in the hunt. My question is, is this hunting necessary or not necessary? Sometimes it is. In your opinion, it is not necessary, so my question may be: Do you realize the consequences of this if the reduction is not carried out? Do you realize what the contribution of hunters is like. in carrying out the tasks that are being carried out? Because these are basic questions to have a general idea. What else are we talking about? Bambinist approach, talking about love for animals, everything beautifully, nicely... For 30 years I have been conducting nature conservation classes and I see this nature conservation slightly differently as a conservation of living nature... That's right, alive. ...wild, not nature, where we're gonna pet animals and hug them. And that's love, that's nature conservation. So here, in general, it is about the context, so that we are aware of what are the problems that hunting is solving today. We say you can't hunt. All right. Are you aware of the damage today, what is the money for the budget at all? But we're not saying not to hunt, we're telling them not to hunt. Madam President, this is not a discussion now. I'm sorry, but you're not talking about it. Stop it, sir. We're talking about children. I said it's in a broader context. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there was a question of opinion. I have these opinions here, and if you ladies would listen, I was talking about the fact that I checked with Web of Science, Google Scholar, who wrote a scientific publication on what he said. I checked it out, and I checked what kind of specialists were talking about it. I have such publications, and I can make them available to you. There will be an opportunity to discuss in committee, they will be presented there. So it looks something like that. Criticism and saying that hunting isn't necessary at all, because it's barbaric... Who said that? ...is simply a fundamental lack of knowledge of the fundamental laws governing nature and what we are dealing with here. There is still a matter of considerable importance. We have a problem today, too, because we're talking about it, but other things have gone sideways. Okay, there's an example. ASF case. This problem needs to be solved. How are we supposed to solve these problems? I mean, hunters give you huge... The contribution of hunters, and financial, and the hours of work they do, that is, dear state, over PLN 1 billion, which the taxpayer does not have to pay. These are more or less the costs associated with the pursuit of the hunting economy: PLN 1 billion thanks to their work, their money. And you're saying it's barbaric, that you could do without it and all that. So this is the first case. On the other hand, as far as children are concerned, this is what I have already mentioned today, it is important to be based on the opinions of the specialists and scientific research that have been carried out on this subject. I gave you names and publications today, but I can also share them with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u134	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A proposal to reject the project at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. You're welcome, sir. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Marshal, I respect you, and I would like you to respect all Members equally. Mr Marshal has instruments that he can use when Members of the Speaker behave reprehensibly and insult one another. I would ask you to step in at these moments, Mr. Marshal. You will admit that what your colleagues did here a moment ago... It is not acceptable in this House to talk to one another like that and insult one another. Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to respond in such situations, and you can do it, and you can do it very effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. It was not a formal proposal, but I would like to say that I am always trying to respond to situations that require it. The voices of the messengers who defend animals and at the same time call for the killing of children, in my opinion, are disgusting. This is no time for your opinions. Now you're gonna give your own opinions? We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Civil Property Protection Act in the Republic of Poland against claims relating to non-inheritable property (print No 282). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Robert Bąkiewicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first thing I would like to ask for is an extension of the speaking time, because five minutes in such an important matter is a mockery of the citizens, it is a mockery of all those who signed this project. Mr President, I can't do this. You have five minutes. Before that, Mr. Guns had more time. I'll give you half a minute. He had three minutes more. Again, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the draft Stop 447 act, I believe that today's dramatic threat not only to health but also to economic and social conditions perfectly illustrates that certain situations that seem unimaginable to us, unreal, can come true from day to day with great violence. However, the threat to which our draft Stop 447 is responsible is no less real and no less powerful in terms of the possible economic impact and, consequently, the social impact. To put it simply, the possible implementation by the Polish government of unwarranted property claims against our country would mean an economic and social earthquake, which the current situation should help us to understand. For years there have been actions and pressures of various organizations and people demanding from Poland to pay in the form of compensation equal value of property without inheritance belonging to the Polish citizens of the Jewish origin of the deceased childless in the period of World War II. These actions received official support from the United States Congress, which through the so-called. Law 447 de facto obliged the U.S. Government to enforce the objectives of the Teresa Declaration, including the transfer of Jewish non-heritable property, to help the victims of the Holocaust, to support education on the Holocaust and for other purposes. Environmental claims against the Polish state estimate them for $300 billion. Let us remind you that this amount corresponds more or less to the budget paid for 5 years in Poland for pensions or for the 500+ programme paid for 31 years or 5 000. F-16 planes. It also corresponds to 14 times the cost of rebuilding Warsaw after the war. In our society awareness of this threat of looting the Polish state, and consequently of all Poles, and about the scale of this threat is increasingly common. Therefore, I would like to express my gratitude to all Poles in Poland and abroad, and especially to the Polish people in America, who have been aware from the beginning of what is involved in the unlawful claim against Poland. Given our civilization order and the responsibility of the German state for the effects of World War II and the destruction of millions, should we explain to you, Members, why these claims are unlawful? Do you need to be told that a claim against inherited property is simply a contradiction from the point of view of logic? In May 2019, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, if you are listening to me right now, you said that these claims are morally absurd and that you do not agree to such claims and do not intend to pay them. Regardless of your intentions and your words, this position has no legal effect, it is not the position of the Polish State and it does not oblige the Polish Government to any extent. However, in the face of external pressure Poles demand, such Poles as I, from the street who came here, that the Polish state in its legislation adopt a worthy, clear and categorical position on this matter, solemnly presenting the Polish viewpoint in this regard, expressed in the preamble of the bill prepared by us, and then establishing the way in which public authorities behave. High Izbo! We believe that the adoption of this law, which Poles demand, is a moral duty of representatives of the Republic of Poland. Firstly, as a sovereign nation, we do not need to explain ourselves to anyone from the law which expresses the position of the Republic and obliges its officials. There is much talk about the negligence of Polish historical policy over the last decades. Regardless of their nature, one thing is certain: you listen too little to the voices of Poles, but you attach too much importance to external critics. Secondly, this law is not directed against any state or ethnic group. It's just propolska, it's behind the Polish state rhyme. However, there are voices of fear that such a law will harm our foreign alliances. We believe that such concerns are vain, because any basis of favorable alliances is respect for clearly defined Polish national interests. Furthermore, how can our allies respect us if we do not want to respect ourselves and our sovereignty with fear of their response? For what else is a state property, as a necessary condition of sovereignty, for which so many Poles, including Poles of Jewish origin, shed their blood (the Bell) in the previous century? How are our allies supposed to respond to the pressure of organizations on them, that they will not help them with these looting claims, if we cannot express our own position in the form of a bill? After all, it is not only about expressing a position, but also about the actual ban on the law, it is about the Polish government not making any arrangements in this regard with the blackmailers; it is about the blackmailers, please, not discussing. What blackmailers? Thank you, sir. Israel Singer, Secretary General of the World Jewish Congress in 1996, said: If Poland... Thank you very much. You've run out of time. I'm almost done, Marshal. If Poland fails to meet the claims of the Jews, it will be publicly attacked and humiliated in the international forum, which we are dealing with today. But Poles are a proud nation, defending their ideals and their freedom, even at the cost of their own lives. What do you say, dear honourable Members, Polish heroes, Polish insurgents... [[The Vice-Marshal shuts off the microphone, the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much. You've run out of time. I gave you a minute. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the discussion. Mr. Marshal, I had three minutes added... You didn't have three minutes, you had an extra minute, but because... Formal request to change the way in which the proceedings are conducted. About allowing the social side to speak. Mr President, please sit down and calm down. Have a seat. Formal conclusion. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, please, this is a minute and I'm finishing the text. Really. All right, half a minute. Like I said, Israel Singer, Secretary General of the World Jewish Congress, told us exactly what he thought: that if we fail to meet demands, claims, we will be publicly attacked and humiliated. Here we go. We are a proud nation... [[The Vice-Marshal disables the microphone, the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u138	You read the same thing twice. Thank you very much. Now we're going to consider the point... Mr. Marshal, he's gonna end up sooner than these push-ups are going on. You have to be fair. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. We're linking with the Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the citizens' draft law on the protection of property in the Republic of Poland against claims relating to inheritable property, print No 282. According to the project developers, the basic aim of the project is to protect property in the Republic of Poland against claims relating to non-inheritable property, e.g. in connection with the US ActJUST 447 on the immediate execution of justice saved from the Holocaust, which was not compensated for these losses. The draft law sets out the way in which public authorities act in the event, I stress, of hypothetical recourse to entities described in it with claims relating to non-inheritable property. It contains an unknown definition of uninherited property... [[Disruption of reception]] ...in respect of inheritable property. In addition, the project formulates numerous prohibitions, and even criminalisation, addressed to public authorities, concerning a widely understood order to refuse to take account of claims raised for inheritable property and criminal provisions. The provisions contained in the draft law are to prohibit any action to satisfy claims relating to non-inheritable property, including negotiation, settlement or recognition of claims and actions, consent to mediation and the granting of related benefits in cash or in kind. Anyone who would undertake any of these activities would be punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 5 years, while a public servant in the same situation would be punishable by imprisonment of up to 25 years. First of all, it is important to stress that we appreciate the concern of Polish citizens who signed, I stress, in good faith, under the citizens' bill on the protection of property. It is in the interest of all of us to ensure certainty and sustainability and to protect ownership relations in Poland. However, we believe that the problem posed by the project of non-fallible property in Poland does not actually exist. [[Disruption of reception]] ...the regulations in force in our country in the absence of heirs all the left-over assets of Polish citizens are transferred to the Treasury. Both Polish law and international law do not recognise such interpretations as referred to in the draft law, that inheritance property can be passed on to some international institutions or entities. It should also be emphasized that our country, the Republic of Poland, is not... [[Disruption of reception]] ...nor the nation, nor... [[Disruption of reception]] ... Nothing to blame for the losses and damage caused by World War II. Nor is there any international regulation that Poland would require such compensation. It should be stressed that the US Law 447 does not involve any specific claims against any country. In the same JUST The Act also has no specific sanctions, and this document concerns 46 countries and this is the internal call of Congress to the U.S. Department of State, which is why I consider it highly irresponsible to scare Polish society by law 447 by some political groups. It is clear to us that this topic is treated by this environment as a political fuel and a way to build political support. Unfortunately, the pillar of this political action is to undermine our partnership with the United States, but also to create a false picture of the reality of Jewish claims. These statements are basically false. We know very well that Poland is the country that suffered the largest in relation to the total number of people and national estates of personal and material take-offs from all European countries as a result of German aggression. It is Poland that has claims for damages from Germany, and the matter of reparation is still open politically and legally. Thus, Poland has claims for World War II, while no other country or organization has any claims against Poland - it is necessary to stress this once again clearly and clearly in this debate. When analysing the solutions contained in the proposed bill, it should be noted that they raise serious doubts in the light of the legal order in force in Poland and the European Union. This was pointed out by the opinions and positions of all the institutions that gave an opinion on this bill... [[Disruption of reception]] ...because of the low legislative level and the numerous shortcomings of this project. This was the position presented by the National Court of Justice, the Supreme Court, the National Council of Komornicza, but also by the Office of Sejm Analysis. Practically all the opinions submitted are compatible: the bill violates a number of provisions of the Constitution, but above all the constitutional right to court. The projector also failed to demonstrate in the explanatory memorandum of the bill that the legislative regulation introduced is capable of leading to its intended effects and is essential for the protection of the public interest. All the opinion-makers also stressed that if the project were to enter into force, it would lead to enormous interpretation chaos... [[Disruption of reception]] ...a comprehensive and often inconsistent civil law system. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, while respecting the voice of the citizens who have signed this bill, we are ready to work on this civil project in the relevant parliamentary committees. Thank you. To sum up, I ask the Marshal to refer this bill to the committee responsible for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was surprised to hear Mr Mularczyk's voice just now, who said that this project should be addressed to the committee. This is, I think, a classic procedure that's gonna cause the people who signed this project to be fooled, that we're telling you: yes, yes, we're not against it, but we're gonna drown it in the freezer. We'll be honest. This project is simply not suitable for further work - and this has to be said directly - and for this reason we will apply for rejection at first reading, because this project is really an intentional resolution, and we do not have a solution in Polish law and Polish constitution that would intentively... that Parliament intentionally obliges the authorities to take certain actions. Parliament is making a bill in which it says that executive authority is either going to do something or not to do something. And in this situation, we say this: the executive authority should take action that is not really going to happen in respect of some, i.e. inheritable property. Well, that's ridiculous, because it's called for non-action. And that, in my opinion, is the very twisted logic of this bill. He should not be further processed, because the issue of inherited property is regulated in Poland. We know who inherited it. They were mostly inherited by the State Treasury and the State Treasury is its owner, whether through the municipalities or later by communalization. There's been a lot of cases like this. Therefore, there is no problem with inheritable property. Making a bill on this matter, because the United States Congress has made some internal regulation, too, is simply pointless and is an act that is supposed to completely unnecessarily conflict us with different environments. We believe that until there is a reprivatization law in Poland, a large reprivatization law, there will still be voices of this kind, because someone will still say that some property has lost, that the Treasury has become unduly rich, that it should pay. Well, until there's this big bill, which was already announced by the PiS in that term, that in a moment, it was gonna be too soon, but it's still gone and there's not even a project... The only thing that worked was to remember a small reprivatization bill, which saved many schools, police stations, kindergartens in Warsaw, which managed to protect them from the so-called. reprivatisation, because these claims were traded and many public utility objects could have been lost from the point of view of the State Treasury, but it was also someone who wanted to recover them. For this reason, we believe that this project also has many such shortcomings, such as the definition of inheritable property. You're talking about World War II for your intentions, but you don't really define it. Inheritable property from the '70s, '80s or even from the last years would also be subject to this law, which is completely pointless. Furthermore, Professor Mik points out this in his opinion, which is attached to this project, and on the basis of this, I believe that this is a project that may have been created for some good intentions, someone very much wanted to protect the property of Poles, but did it not by these means. If we want to protect property once and for all, please call on those who supported you, make a reprivatization bill. and agree with the government so that the parliamentary majority wishes to support it. We will also be happy to work on this too, because we believe that Poland, after 70 years since the end of World War II, should finally have a large reprivatization bill, which will close things once and for all and we will not have to go back to it in successive terms, because so far in every parliamentary term since 1990, this issue has actually returned. If we want to close this once and for all, let's close it with a reprivatization bill, not an inheritance law, because I don't think that there's a problem today, and it's completely pointless to answer a U.S. Congress Act. For this reason, I apply for rejection at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u142	Thank you. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The men of the Confederation will soon explain that the American law poses some great threat to Poland and Poles. They're gonna scare the Jews into coming and taking our homes. You may not know this, gentlemen from the Confederation, but in Poland people have been expelled from their homes for years and Poles do so on the basis of Polish law and judgments of Polish courts. It's called reprivatization. But that's not what you do because you're not interested in human harm. All you care about is the sting on strangers. What the American Senate accepts does not have any legal effect on Poland. We're an independent country, not an American colony. The Polish law is not decided by the American Senate, nor by the Russian Pride and gentlemen of the Confederation after a few months in the Sejm should already know something about it. Poland will not return any property without inheritance, because there is no legal basis for it. The issue of claims of American citizens was settled on the basis of the 1960 agreement between the USA and Poland. That's it, period. Extreme right wants to launch an anti-Semitic campaign. That's what this is all about. That shouldn't surprise anyone. One of the initiators of the project is the former head of the ONR. This environment has cultivated anti-Semitic obsession for over 100 years. Scaring Jews has been a tragedy in the history of this country. A nationalistic sting, a despicable national chase led to the death of President Narutowicz. That's what happened when the ONRs incited anti-Jewish pogroms. This was the case when nationalists were collaborating with the Nazis and hunting Jews. Don't lie to me. The initiators of this project, it is you, exactly, who stand in one line today with these sowers of hatred. I'm sorry, but I can't believe that the men of the Confederation are interested in the fate of the evicted families, the victims of reprivatization. After all, the most important thing for you is sacred property rights and money, and you always talk about it. Without a blink of an eye, you would have signed a bill allowing families with children or sick pensioners to be thrown out of their homes. Wild reprivatization has been in Poland for years. Where were you when the social left and tenant movements fought for the right to a roof over your head, for human dignity, for elementary justice? Where were you when we were blocking the evictions? You weren't there. I don't remember you being there. I remember something else for that. I remember the infected barracks in Przeworska, to which the Warsaw-run Civic Platform threw people out for 3 months and then threw them on the street, on the street. So-called. The temporary spaces were only so that the authorities could wash their hands. Bullshit. That's right, exactly. I was there, and I saw exactly what was going on. I've seen a sick woman get thrown out on the street with police assistance. It was your doing. But the Confederations, the nationals didn't bother the barracks at Przeworska, you probably didn't even know they existed. You were interrupted by rainbows in the Saviour's Square, that's what you did. You're cowards. The only thing you're capable of is a bit of a sting on the weak and a fight against imaginary, imaginary threats. To really defend people, to stand up to the real mob, it takes courage. The need for courage burned alive by Jolanta Brzeska, the need for courage of Peter and Agatha Ikonowicz, the need for courage of Ewa Andruszkiewicz, the need for courage of Piotr Ciszewski, the need for courage of Janusz Banek, courage of Jan Spiewak, courage of Beata Sieniako, courage of Jakub Żaczka and hundreds of others who fight together for human dignity and the right to live. You don't have the guts. Instead of dealing with the right-wing obsessions, today the Sejm should settle the issue of reprivatization once and for all. However, the rulers lacked the courage to do so. We remember very well how Deputy Prime Minister Patrick promised the reprivatization bill, presented its assumptions. Where's the promised bill, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS? Have you fooled people again? What are you scared of? Whose business are you protecting? Patrick What's in Brussels today, and there's no bill. Why is it so sudden that there's no power left in the world? We won't lack the courage. This case needs to be cut eventually. Therefore, the Left will submit a draft reprivatization bill that will once and for all end the issue of claims. Then, during the vote, we can find out who's on the side. Who's on the side of the tenants and who's on the side of the reprivatization mob? And as for the anti-Semitic bastard who has been taken into the attention of the High House today, the Left will of course vote in favour of directing him where he belongs - to the dumpster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u144	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the civil project in print No 282. Well, High Izbo, Poland was the victim, not the perpetrator, of World War II. That's right, that's a very good point. It is very worth remembering when it is necessary to remember this historical truth, because sometimes there are situations, opportunities that require it. The Act of 447 adopted by the United States Congress on 12 December 2017 is also a legal act which requires reminder. A law which supports the restitution of property or compensation in the case of so-called. non-inheritable property. Claims under this law should be made to organisations dealing with assistance to those in need, survivors from the Holocaust or supporting education about the Holocaust. This situation also requires answers from public authorities in Poland. We do not agree with such claims that have been made in lighter or heavier form today in the debate that there is no problem. There's a problem. There is a problem, and this is shown by really different opinions, research. Among Poles this raises legitimate concerns and it is a pity that there is no such answer. It was right here that the previous speakers said that a reprivatization bill, a large reprivatization bill, would be the answer to such attempts as were undertaken in the United States, but we cannot deal with this since the early 1990s. And let me remind you, because there is a good opportunity for this, that the first project of a large reprivatization bill was presented in the Second term of office by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Unfortunately, he didn't get the majority. The second answer, which we have been looking forward to for nearly three years now, is the political response. It is about a clear, decisive position agreed in the relations between Poland and the United States. There have been many opportunities for this. We saw President Trump in Poland. President Andrzej Duda has also been a frequent guest in the United States. There were potential opportunities to solve this issue on political grounds, but we didn't see it coming. We have heard many announcements that Polish-American friendship is getting better, that historically it has never been so good, so strict, but unfortunately in this case there is not enough determination, will, desire. Anyway, something was missing. This political problem has not been resolved. Therefore, there is a citizens' bill project modelled on the one which in the previous term submitted the parliamentary club Kukiz15. It is some response to a problem which Poles believe should be solved by the public authorities. And I think we should give this project a chance, all the more so that it's a civil project to be procedated. It probably requires changes, it requires improvement, because it is not perfect in its content, but this is the answer that Poles expect from the Sejm today, since there is no other response to be sure of what we have in Poland when it comes to inherited property. Therefore, on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club, I would like to make it clear that we will want this project to go to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u146	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of the applicants! Today we managed to take the first step towards protecting Polish property against unjustified Jewish property claims. This step has taken the citizens' environments. It is a pity that not Polish politicians who rule our country, that they lacked courage and determination. I would first like to congratulate and thank this 200 thousand. citizens who have signed the citizens' bill #STOP447, for the enormous effort that they have made over the last few months so that we can meet here today and talk about this important issue in this very limited period of time. In particular, I would like to thank Robert Bąkiewicz and Mariusz Piotrowski present in the room as leaders of this movement, which was born in Polish society. We expect support for this project, we expect serious discussion, not denying the existence of the problem. We have just seen such denial from the Left, but also, interestingly, from the representative of Law and Justice, who claimed that Poland is not facing any claims. Obviously, it is. Of course, Mr Mularczyk denied reality. We are neither as a nation, nor as a state we owe nothing to anyone. Poland was the victim of the German occupation. Unfortunately, in part, it seems that quite a large international Jewish community has a different opinion. Along with the opinion of the alleged guilt of Poles, it is also the opinion that Poles should pay, like other nations who were co-culprits of the Holocaust, some kind of payment. This is a false opinion, although there is no point in denying reality. Here I look towards the Left, but also completely empty pews of the PiS. Somewhere the whole PiS club evaporated. There's no one on government benches, there's no one on the PiS benches. I'm here. There's that opinion, and there's nothing to deny it. You have to face that opinion. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was silent when Act 447 was passed in America. The President and the Prime Minister are silent about this every time they go to America. The Kukiz project15 was rejected in the previous term of office. The policy of the Government of Law and Justice against the American State or Israel is a policy pursued on knees. It was evident during the anti-Iranian conference that the Prime Minister of Israel came to and insulted us here. In this situation, it is important to be clear: regulation of this issue is needed. The Americans showed it. If they've regulated their diplomacy line with a special law, then we can do it. Protecting Polish property is not anti-Semitism. Support for this law is the duty of every respectful and protective Polish property of Polish parliamentarian. We expect support from this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u148	Thank you. The remaining part of the time will be used by Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The Marxist Left has no right to lecture anyone in Poland because it has so much blood on its hands, so many expropriations and so much stolen property in history that it will never have the right and legitimacy to lecture anyone again. So that you can count on the words. And as for the substance, about the issue we have gathered here, ladies and gentlemen, the question to the government: Who are you afraid of? Who are you afraid of and what are you afraid of? And the answer is very simple. You're afraid of the international chase of Jewish communities. You're afraid of this attack and you choose disgrace. You choose disgrace, as in 2018, when you castrate the IPN Act. You choose disgrace, and you will still have war. And so there is a war in historical politics. You think you can avoid this war? No, you can't avoid it on historical or property grounds. That's the truth. You're afraid that the influential Jewish lobby in the United States will put pressure on the one you think is your protector. The world is changing. Well, today we need a multi-vector policy in our foreign policy. Well, it's not like you can use the same schematics today. which in the 1990s and to believe that the vassal attitude towards the United States will protect Poland from anything. Unfortunately, no or the steths didn't. But the opposite is true today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have no doubt that today the PiS will of course wish to refer this request to the committee and drown it. Drown him, just like you drowned the life protection bill, just like all the important projects you're sending to the committee to put them there. But we say, "I'm checking." But I'm saying right now: I'm checking. That is why I am applying to proceed immediately to second reading and to adopt this law at this session of the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u150	Thank you, sir. We're going to ask questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to ask the question. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, you have to protect your wealth. We also see this today when we need to protect the assets of entrepreneurs, Polish companies, jobs and we need to take such measures that will actually be effective. We need to talk about getting VAT back as soon as possible. It is necessary to pay the funds that entrepreneurs expect, not just to accept applications. Today, however, we are dealing with topics that could have been solved much earlier: abortion, the issue of property law, the question of hunting law. This really is not the time for discussion and debate about those issues that could have been dealt with earlier if the PiS had not wanted to put out the Sejm. Today, however, we need to talk about the release of VAT, we need to talk about payments in order to save Polish companies. That's what the Sejm should be doing today. On the other hand, Minister, taking the opportunity that you are, I would like to ask you (the bell) what about this reprivatization bill. Because you actually promised that she would be carried out by the Sejm, but the announcements ended. When's the bill coming? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u152	Thank you, sir. I'd like to remind you again. We didn't have time. We had a different distribution. You know perfectly well. Don't repeat what isn't true. This was because we dealt with the problems of entrepreneurs and employees. Please, sir, do not abuse this statement. Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask important questions to cynical applicants and politicians under the name of ONR, Confederation and thoughtless journalists such as Wojciech Cejrowski. Have you forgotten the millions of Poles and Jews murdered with exceptional cruelty during the Holocaust by the Germans? Why are you lying that any law, whether the U.S. Senate or the parliament of another country, can constitute the law in force in Poland? After all, property without falls in Poland falls to the Treasury. Why do you scare Poles and arouse anti-Semitic and nationalistic fears in times of crisis when social sensitivity is needed? To the Law and Justice and President Andrzej Duda I direct the demand and appeal on behalf of the Left in the name of ordinary human decency: stop smiling at these politically irresponsible people and walk side by side with them as with allies in marches with hate and division slogans. Today, Poland and Europe need solidarity, dedication and honesty (The Bell), not attacks on women's rights and anti-Semitic projects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u154	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u155	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The government coalition has done an unbelievable thing. During 30 years of free Sejm after 1990, she passed the worst image law for the Republic of Poland, the law on IPN. A bill that had to be corrected to the detriment of our country. This bill proposed with the support of the Confederation goes exactly in the same direction. If you want to destroy the image of Poland in the world, proceed with this bill. This is a legal basis, as all the opinions that Mr Mularczyk referred to show, and rightly so, because I have also read these opinions. It's a disaster. This is a law that does not have any reason to exist because if someone wants to claim against Poland, it can do so on a judicial basis. There have been cases in the United States: Chicago and New York. The Polish government won these two cases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result, anyone can make an effort. But the problem with this bill is that... Finish your work, sir. Minister - I address Minister Kaleta - when your resort prepares the wrong legal bubla that Minister What, just the real reprivatization bill? Since 2001, when the Sejm passed this law, there is no other law. Thank you very much, sir. I invite you, Mr... And it was the Left who vetoed this bill, my fellow Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u156	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, a little less emotional and more substantive statements and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These civic projects, which are on the agenda today, are absolutely in order to distract attention from the current situation of health services and the economy. [[Applause]] Unbelievable, unbelievable, sir. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today people are asking why... I would like to ask the question of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is not in the Chamber, why there are limited human freedoms, why people must pay huge parking tickets for entering the forest, to the park, to the cemetery. Why today is an attempt to limit freedom among others. Because there's an attempt to punish people who won't take part in the May vote? And finally, why do you want to raise your hand to Polish women by restricting their rights? You want to punish Polish women up to 5 years in prison. And that's so de facto the topic today. Scandal! Mr President, this is not the bill. Since Mr Morawiecki is not here, I will leave this poster so that he knows what he wants women to do. And all this stuff you're putting in today is just to distract you from these important topics. [[Applause]] Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u158	However, I will call you to order. Mr President, you know very well that this is not a government project or a parliamentary project. We don't have to debate this today. You have until May, you don't have to... Mr, no, it is a citizens' project. You can't use the Seym Speaker to spread the truth, sir. This is a civic project, not a parliamentary project. Thank you. You have until May... The point is, no, sir. If you know the agenda for the Sejm meetings, you know perfectly well that you do not. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Law 447 has no legal effect, which is why today I will take time to reprivatise. On 11 October 2017, Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jak convened a press conference at the Ministry of Justice. What he said: we got it. We're grabbing the bull's legs. Patrick Jak was proud to announce the so-called project. A large reprivatization bill. It's been two and a half years since then, and there's still no new law. Poland cannot afford to lack such regulation, said Jak. We have a green light for the reprivatization bill, but apparently the light has changed color, Minister Kaleta. On the website of the Government Legislation Centre we see that the Act is still at the stage of the opinion - January 2018. Specific question: When will there be a bill, when will you draw the law of what law from the drawer and present it to the High Sejm? This is a matter that should be considered today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've ruled the country for eight years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u160	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask all of you to remain calm. I've been reported. I didn't have any more calls. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would like to ask Members to calm down. I'm sorry, but I didn't get any more calls. To whom, sir, where did you speak? To the question. Excuse me, but I don't have a call. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, there's order here, there's no mess, sir. One minute for the Member. The only voice of the Confederacy. Since the Confederation has not notified anyone, Mr President, I will, of course, allow you because I do not have a notification, so someone must have missed it. One minute, sir. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask you one question. Do you realize that you are raising nationalism? The representative of the Left arouses chauvinism and nationalism, talking about it. After all, murdered people were Polish citizens, not Israelis. It has nothing to do with anti-Semitism. They were Polish citizens, educated in Poland. The State of Israel has nothing to do with this. The World Jewish Congress has nothing to do with this. They were Polish citizens and, of course, property after them falls to the Polish state. There's nothing to talk about. I will ask the question: Why Jarosław Kaczyński, according to what is in WikiLeaks, met 10 years ago at the American Embassy and promised that Poland would pay 20% These claims, as a result of which the claims increased five times? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u162	Thank you. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek. There you go. The lady says she signed up because you have one more question left untapped, I'm allowing you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u163	Thank you very much. I think this is a different situation, a rather extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. What are your true intentions beyond the political upheaval? Because if anybody had any delusions about your good intentions, then after this debate, you can get rid of those delusions from the Confederacy. This bill is sewn up with anti-Semitism, it is extremely nationalistic and serves only the campaign of a nationalist candidate who can and did put on a suit, but did not get rid of his shameful, unworthy opinions. No, no... You're talking about the protection of property, about people losing their homes, but you're ignoring the actual problem we have, which is reprivatization and reprivatization claims. It is them, it is the actions of the reprivatization mafia that are a real tragedy that affects hundreds of families in Poland. He's still touching them because the tenements are still being taken over and their residents are losing their apartments. And it's all in the majesty of the law. There's not a word in this bill. The reprivatization bill was to be adopted during the previous term of the Sejm. I remember talking to Mr Kaleta about this. We still can't see her. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am very surprised at the words of the Civic Platform, which has had many opportunities to pass this bill, and also had presidents who supported such actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u164	Thank you, Member. The list of people to ask the question has been exhausted. Please take... We remember you... Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to remain calm and quiet. Okay? Please, sir. You're welcome, sir. I would now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Sebastian Kaleta. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This is a very important civic presentation on an important problem that affects millions of Poles. During this discussion, however, there were many false and false calculators. I will try to give you a brief overview of what is currently happening. It has been stated that supposedly our political camp, our government does not fight for the protection of the State Treasury in terms of reprivatization claims. You may have missed the fact that dozens of people have been sent to prisons and jails in recent years, because the big reprivatization scandal, which operates under the nose of the State from the Civic Platform, has destroyed the health and life of many Warsaw citizens, but also destroyed public property. This matter is dealt with step by step and a number of people are responsible. This civic submission concerns a very important issue of inheritable property. Perhaps some of your parliamentarians are unaware that the first body of our country, which has dealt with the problem of inheritable property in recent years, has clearly decided as an authority that no claims against such property have the opportunity to be satisfied, is the verification committee. The verification committee in 2017, when the first cases were raised and dealt with, made it clear that if a Polish citizen died during the war and left no heirs, his property on the basis of the laws in force at the time was lost to the Treasury. Further amendments to the law on succession are clear on this issue. Such decisions were taken by the verification committee. Why did she take it? Because there have been no states or international organizations after inherited property over the past few years, but there have been hustlers and criminals, and the courts have allowed them, and M.S. Warsaw, smash yourself when it comes to this property. This is a real problem that concerns property. We, as the verification committee, with Minister Jakim and other members, often also representatives of the current opposition in this group shared doubts about the way we took over such property, we are fighting this pathology. And I won't agree with the Left Club's position that there's nothing going on here, because I think it's in the M.E. Warsaw left at a time when there was a reprivatization scandal - maybe not your political environment directly, but your jury coalitioners - in cooperation with the Civic Platform just entered this self-government. This did not bother SLD politicians to take positions in urban companies when the reprivatization scandal was overtaking the widest circles. Only when we had an influence on governments in the country, reforming the prosecutor's office, creating a review committee, did we wage a war on this pathology. Of course, there are still many things to consider, but we are the ones who protect the State Treasury. The law which has been submitted by a group of citizens should be further examined by the Sejm in view of the important interest of the Treasury. However, this committee will be the right place to continue discussing this issue, and raising the issue of the reprivatisation law at this point at the time of this submission is not justified because this law is to protect the Treasury, the good reprivatization law protects the Treasury from unfair claims and in this direction we consistently strive. When's the bill? We're still analyzing the situation of claims, above all, their validity... It's been a long time. ...and the possibilities of fulfilling those that are justified. And the claims that are indicated in this submission, there is no doubt that our state has consistently claimed for years, are not justified. Thank you. [[Applause]] When's the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you are, a representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Robert Bąkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by referring to the statements made by Members of the Left. Let me just pull out the paddle to remember the names of these gentlemen and ladies: Mr. Necessary, Mrs. Sheikh. You. Mr. Necessary, I'd like to respond. I'm from this organization... Mr. Sheikh, not you. And this is you? I'd like to answer your question. I am from this organization whose boss died in Auschwitz for helping Jews. You ask me if I'm ashamed of my past. I'm the one asking you if you're ashamed of your past. That's one thing. Another thing. I would like to refer to what Mr Mularczyk said. This bill, of course, is not a threat to us directly, but we already know the procedures that the American Congress has been going through, for example. Switzerland, earlier. We all know that Switzerland paid almost $2 billion in the '90s, drawn by hustlers, cheaters and people who prey on it. Coming here today, I was wondering if you Members have a conscience because on the street, and I came from the street, they say you have no conscience. I'd like to believe, however, that you have these consciences. The Members of the Left are talking about the fact that other tenement houses are being taken away at the moment, and the tenement houses are being taken away. They're here. You mean if someone steals, they're supposed to steal even more? I would like to tell you one thing: Mike Pompeo said in 2019, taught the foreign minister Mr Jack Chaputowicz that we must adapt the right to restitution of this property. In 2018 a letter of 59 senators was sent to the Polish Prime Minister that we are to adapt the right to the issue of inherited property, to the surrender of property that does not belong to anyone. We are to give property from dead Polish citizens to American citizens - after all this is absurd. The question to all of you is, ladies and gentlemen, do you always pretend you don't see the problem? Do you guys always say when someone spits in your face that it's raining? Our homeland is in real danger. These demands and these claims of Jewish organizations are really dangerous, and you realize that exactly. That is why Mr Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Morawiecki said in May 2019 that they would not pay any zloty. Except that's not the law. Just as the members of the Civic Coalition know this exactly, this is what President Komorowski said, who, according to WikiLeaks, was about to trade Polish forests for these claims. There have been negotiations, which were also conducted by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński in 2009 with the US Embassy. She talked about Georgette Mosbacher, the ambassador in Poland, that we are going to solve this case. Before that, Ambassador Anna Azari talked about us being co-responsible for the Holocaust and murdering Jews. You're talking about us losing a good reputation in the world because of this bill. What world do you live in? Don't you understand that the whole world sees us as bandits as people who murdered Jews during World War II? All Poles who know, even though they are a little interested in politics, are aware of it. A few years ago, a study was conducted among American students. They were asked who murdered the Jews during the so-called. The Holocaust. The information and answers were clear: that it was done by the indeterminate Nazis and Poles. If today the Polish Sejm, the Polish Parliament really does not take action in defence of those claims that are really dangerous, it will lose the chance to defend itself from it in reality. This is a test. for your Polishness, this is a test on your consciences, this is a test for whether you think about Poland or think under pressure from other countries, other powers. This isn't the Confederacy Act, this isn't a political act, just like you're trying to cast us here. This is the law of ordinary citizens, i.e. people who just worry about their homes, their possessions and their future. Thank you very much. I just wanted to tell you that we, apart from being Members, are also ordinary citizens and Poles. Thank you very much. That's why I'm asking you, Marshal, to accept this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, the applicant for the next project is already under the Seym, so we have to wait a moment. I'm calling a five-minute break. We're gonna start in a minute. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 26 hours 15 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997 - Penal Code (Print No 39). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Mariusz Dzierżawski to present the justification for the bill. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in the case of remote proceedings of the Sejm, you have 5 minutes, of course, with the possibility of extending, but small. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The project I'm about to present today is short. Its content is halfway through the format page A4, and its essence is contained in § 2. The same sentence, i.e. up to 2 years of imprisonment, is subject to a public promotion or approval by a minor of sexual intercourse. The project met with a huge attack from the media and a large part of the political community. There have been allegations that the intention of the project is to ban sexual education. If the intention of sexual educators is to encourage minors to have sexual relations, then the charge is right. Yes, we want to stop the depravity of minors because we believe that shameless children for whom sex is supposed to be a banal act are easy prey for pedophiles. Sex-educators refer to programs that have been in use for several decades in the West, whose compendium is in the standards of sexual education in Europe, which are companyd by the German Office for Foreign Affairs. health education and the World Health Organisation. This brochure encourages sexual awakening from infancy. According to the standards of children aged 0 and 4, they should receive information about masturbation and pleasure from touching their own body. The introduction to this can be a variety of sexual games, such as: Playing doctor, touching genitals or naming intimate parts of the body, whose practical scenarios are found in books for sexual education. Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the effects of child depravity, which has been going on for decades in the West under the banner of education: thousands of abortions among teenagers, an epidemic of venereal diseases, sexual identity disorders among children. In only one London clinic, the number of children treated with sex change increased from 94 cases in 2010 to 2519 8 years later. Gender change is treated in this clinic as a panacea for all mental problems, including autism. 2/3 of people infected with syphilis and AIDS in Europe are men who have sex with men. According to Zbigniew Izdebski, homosexuals have an average of 200 partners, because this is their lifestyle, as Mr Izdebski explains. But you're lying. It is not difficult to see the connection between this lifestyle and the epidemic of venereal diseases. It doesn't bother WHO to support homosexuality. John Paul II said that democracy without value is easily transformed into open or hidden totalitarianism. In Western countries, reporting on homosexuality and disease is viewed as a hate speech. I myself was recognized by the Poznań court as a bad guy for similar reasons a month ago. Bravo! What is the relation to the value of the Third Republic? Children in mothers' wombs can be killed with impunity. The Istanbul Convention, which considers religion and family to be sources of violence, adopted by Poland at the end of the PO regime, has not been declared for 5 years. Abortion can be promoted with impunity, children can be corrupted with impunity. Polish Metropolitan Self-governments Do It's official. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will conclude with a quote from John Paul II : A nation that kills its own children is a nation without a future. I would add that a nation that corrupts its own children destroys its future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u170	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Przemysław Czarnek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997 - Penal Code. A citizens' bill in which a group of hundreds of thousands of citizens requests that the public promote or approve of a minor's sexual intercourse. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club is in favour of directing this project to further legislative work for two reasons. First of all, according to the article. 72 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland protects the rights of the child and protects the child from cruelty, exploitation and demoralization. The literal wording of the legislation proposed by a group of citizens does not raise doubts at this stage, and further discussion on this issue should take place, among others. on the committees. If the Republic of Poland is to protect children from demoralisation, then it is obvious that it should prohibit, under the threat of punishment, public promotion or approval of the child's sexual relations. Salutation and promotion of sexual intercourse by children is a demoralization and depravity of children. The Republic of Poland not only can, but also must, in accordance with the article. 72, resist, and under threat of punishment, such practices. For this reason, because of the constitutional provision in particular, not only moral, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of further proceeding on this bill. Secondly, the bill is a civil project, it is reported by a group of hundreds of thousands of citizens, as your marshal has rightly pointed out several times today. This is the will of citizens, adults citizens of the Republic of Poland. And for this reason, the PiS club, as a club that respects citizens' proposals, wants to continue to lean on the solutions proposed in this bill. By the way, I would like to join this part of the applicant's statement - if, ladies and gentlemen, we are confusing education with demoralisation and corruption, we are coming out of completely false foundations. Education can't be about promoting sexual relations with children because it would be completely contrary to the constitution. Education isn't a depravity. That is why this bill deserves recognition and further work on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a project that concerns Mr Kaczyński, Marshal Terletki or anyone in this House. It's a project that affects young people. Yeah, you young people. That's why I'm talking to you from here today. You need to know this is a dangerous project. It's a project that's working on your damage right now. Under the pedophiliacoat, applicants want to punish prison for sexual education. They want a prison sentence for education that teaches you how to set boundaries. They want prison punishment for education that teaches respect, teaches self-respect, and teaches respect for others. They want prison punishment for education that teaches safe behavior and teaches them how to take care of their health. You must know that this is a project whose justification is filled with lies, ignorance and hypocrisy. It's not a project that says stop pedophilia. It's a project that's an attempt to prevent accurate knowledge, knowledge that protects against pedophilia, harassment, rape, unwanted pregnancy or illness. It is a project that, if its records enter into force, will punish prison for sexual education, for talking about the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases or discrimination against sexual orientation, for promoting contraception. Education isn't a depravity. Psychologists, doctors, teachers, but we, parents, are hitting the alarm today. When reliable sexual education is banned and punished, the effect of the ban will be exactly the opposite: the threat of sexual violence will increase. Sexual education is a fundamental action that reduces the likelihood of becoming both a victim and a perpetrator of sexual violence. For several years, governments have been fleeing sexual education. This is why the role of non-governmental organisations which have taken over the tasks of the State has recently increased. To a large extent, it is a harmful project, it is hitting NGOs educators, but also teachers, your parents and yourselves, because you too will be able to go to jail for talking about sex. If there are no social activities of educators, it will not mean that unwanted pregnancies will disappear, that pedophilia, pornography, sexual violence or sexually transmitted diseases will disappear. All these dangers are going to get worse. That is how this harmful and absurd project will work, no different. How can young people learn about sexual education? On the Internet? From your peers? How do children know what a bad touch is, where there are limits to freedom, and where does a crime begin? How can they know how to avoid an unwanted pregnancy or illness? I would like Polish young people to have access to modern education, just like their peers in Europe, not to ideology, superstitions and absurdities, because ignorance is helplessness and helplessness, and knowledge is the key to caution and security. I agree with the applicant in one thing: that it is a very short project, but it is very harmful and very dangerous. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I apply for rejection at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u174	Thank you. And he will finish, Mrs Monica Rosa has time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a bill that favours paedophiles. This is a bill that promotes the concealment of sexual harassment. This is a bill that favours venereal diseases, unwanted pregnancies, which favours rape, which favours drama and which, as I understand it, is mainly homophobic and anti-feminine. Because, Mr. Applicant, being a homosexual, transgender is normal and natural - please understand - and the Istanbul Convention is to prevent violence against women. And you're against it, against women. The project hits young people, teachers, teachers, doctors who want to talk to teenagers about sex, contraception, safety, acceptance of themselves and their bodies. International research, well done, clearly states: sexual education in schools delays or reduces the sexual activity of young people, leads to more use of contraception, builds assertiveness. The Polish Sex Society is clear: sexual education is important for development, preventing forms of sexual violence. In the opinion of the Management Board of the Polish Dermatological Society, sexual education is a basic activity that reduces the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases, as demonstrated in scientific research. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing is to protect yourself from pedophilia. Sexual violence experiences at least 20% children. They can be protected by education on the wrong touch, and by the setting and awareness of borders. That's the kind of knowledge the school has to provide. Teenagers can have sex from the age of 15, but they can't talk about this sex anymore because they're going to be punished for it. This project has to stay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u176	Thank you, Member. And please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What kind of a vile man is it that, now that Poles and Poles are struggling with the plague in the country, pull projects that violate human rights out of the drawer? What kind of vile man does it take to tell people right now that a pedophilian's scam project is the most pressing problem in Poland? A project in which a pedophilia bag contains teachers, doctors, sexual educators and, of course, gay people who have some sort of fixation on PiS. I have this question: From what tree did you leave, that you are introducing a project that is talking about a mad disease, and a project about banning abortion? Why are you putting these projects under discussion? Ladies and gentlemen! There's no point in talking about this project that's being presented today because this project is a bunch of bullshit. I respect those who signed up for it, but those who signed up for it were manipulated because there's not a half a word about fighting pedophilia in the project. It is also said to close for three years those who tell their children about the bad touch, what HIV is, what gonorrhea is, what sex is safe and how to avoid unwanted pregnancy. This project isn't about pedophilia, it's about sexual education. This project turns Poland back to the darkness of the Middle Ages. This project glorifys superstition and eliminates reliable and scientific knowledge. This project is a rubble, a collection of absurdities and its place is just in the basket. This project hits the defenselessness of children, because a child like no one else needs to know about the wrong touch and that a priest, uncle, brother, father, neighbor or nobody else. He doesn't have the right to take advantage of the child. The Left therefore requests that this project be rejected at first reading. One more sentence. What kind of bastard does it take to play all this, and right now, during the pandemic of a dangerous virus, to launch projects that fight human rights? What kind of bastard and vile man do you have to be, Mr. Kaczyński and Mrs. Witek?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u178	Madame, just a moment ago, I listened to you at that point, as you were very frightened and disgusted by the way one of the members of the Confederation spoke. Yes. What you've done right now... I found out I was a mean man, a bastard. And you're very careless and reckless. You should have listened at the beginning of the session of the Sejm, when I explained very clearly that these projects had to be examined... Marshal, I'll finish. No, you're not gonna finish. Your marshal, first of all, your duty at the moment... First of all, let me finish. It's your duty to obey the Marshal's orders. Look at the rules. I'm telling you right now, and I'm asking you to listen to this. You didn't listen at first when I explained that we would have to break the law on civil projects if we hadn't introduced them to the Sejm today. Why? Because in previous meetings, as you know, we were just dealing with government projects on the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus. If this hasn't occurred to you, I suggest you listen to what I said this morning and I repeat it several times here in this courtroom. And please, ma'am... I listened. I listened, so I have to tell you that you're lying. Because you said... immediately to proceed, not now. And you didn't. No, and you can... I won't allow you to speak. Please, if you'd like to continue... Member, please sit down and don't discuss it with me. I'll stand. You've really abused my patience, and you've abused the rules. You abuse the patience of people, Poles... If you don't calm down, I'll rule you out. This is outrageous behavior. You insult the people in this House. You insult people. This isn't about me, because you can't insult me... Neither do you. ...but you're nervous that someone here is presenting their views. I think it is. And what did you just do? Your duty... This is outrageous, Commissioner, and I will apply punishment to you because such behaviour in the plenary room cannot go unpunished. Calling the Marshal of the Sejm and other MPs from bastards, liars, crooks, despicable people - that is simply outrageous and unacceptable. This matter will be discussed at the Sejm Bureau meeting and I will certainly request that you be punished for this behaviour. I'm sitting down. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, let's just say that this project is not a fight against pedophilia. The authors are trying to deceive the High House by the very title of this law. In fact, it is a total ban on sexual education in Poland. What for most young Europeans is an ordinary school subject is to be punished here. This is the real purpose of the project and is already visible in the first sentence of the justification. What, though, does the regulation itself provide for? The authors, by falsifying concepts, try to press the transfer of reliable scientific knowledge of sexuality to a criminal threat of up to 2 years imprisonment. I am convinced that everyone in this room is in agreement condemning pedophilia and all attempts to promote it. There's no doubt about it. The point is that the project is based on prejudices and there is no basis in reality or in Polish law. Let us remind you that under Polish law pedophilia is sexual intercourse with a person who is under 15 years of age. It's an iron line. This also means that young people who are over 15 can legally have sex. However, the project introduces punishment for the promotion or approval of sexual intercourse of a person who is under 18 years of age. To put it bluntly, this project involves punishing the promotion and praise of behavior that is not a crime at all. This is ridiculous. The law directly leads to a total ban on sexual education among young people. Three years in jail for anyone who wants to do sexual education with 17-year-olds. If an educator tells them that sex is normal and natural, that a decision to make sex should be made consciously that they need to be able to set boundaries, but also to keep in mind the proper security, then they can go to jail for it. Statistics show that young people, 16 - year - olds or 17 - year - olds, have sex - whether we like it or not. We should equip these young people with scientific knowledge, not punishment for talking about sex. This project is a simple way to terrorize young people, schools and social organizations. It is also a dangerous tool of censorship, which will make it possible to legalise scientific publications, withdraw educational programs, films and TV series, such as. Sex Education, which discusses the subject of the intimate life of young people. Excuse me, are the applicants going to arrest Netflix? When it comes to sexuality, young people need knowledge, not inquisition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Left does not support these solutions, we are against them and we are filing a motion for rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u180	Thank you. To Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: based on Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I would like to take the floor, present our position on the civil project Stop pedophilia, a project that is discussed in this House for the second time. We remember this well, mostly we debated it during the previous term. I have the impression here for the second time today, listening to the applicant's representative, that you have accepted the misconceptions in this project. Even if some environments are trying instrumentally to use something in the world to call sexual education, to promote their own ideas - and I agree that these are not always the right ideas, rational ideas from a social point of view, desirable ideas - then you cannot delete what is called sexual education. This is exactly the second time today I've listened to you and those arguments you represent. I must tell you and the High House, today also from the perspective of the parent watching the school youth, that whether we allow sexual education in Poland or not, sexual awakening will happen among children, young people, teenagers and so will be. Just because, sir, we're gonna stop talking about a problem doesn't mean he's gonna disappear. Because this sexual awakening is and will be done through movies, videos and pornography that are spreading online. There is no other way to allow the transfer of young people into the age that qualifies when they are interested in what is good and what is bad. If we impose sanctions for the promotion of this knowledge, the effect will be the opposite of the desired one. I represent a very conservative environment in my views. We are very clear about promoting values that involve a traditional family, everything that is related to it, but in order to strengthen such a traditional model and these values, it is necessary to create an opportunity to talk about them in order to talk about what a traditional family should be based on, on which the education of children should be based. If today we narrow down the possibility of talking about this sphere to practically a narrow margin, then the effect will really be completely opposite to what we want to achieve. If we stop talking about what it means to be sexually involved, about the transmission of diseases, about all these dangers, will they disappear? No. I think that they will spread to the best among young people, among teenagers, because this knowledge will be completely different. It'll be warped knowledge, pathological knowledge. And here, I think, is a fundamental defect when it comes to such a very radical record when it comes to sanctioning all kinds of talking about sexual relations to young people. Finally, I would like to ask the President of Julia Przyłębska, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, in connection with the bill that we adopted a year ago, a law sanctioning all kinds of paedophile acts, a law that was initiated by the Ministry of Justice. What happens to this bill, so loudly announced, presented as a panacea for any pathology in this area? Nearly a year ago, actually, she's been missing from the grandstand. We don't know if she's being considered or not. It would be a good thing to say about it today, because something (the bell) is wrong about the intentions of the Sejm majority when it comes to this sphere. It's like determination and will to solve the problem, and when it comes to it, it's quiet. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u182	Mr. President, it's time. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Without a doubt, there is a worldview battle about Poland, the result of which is very much dependent. Whether Poland will remain the backbone of normality and Christian strength, from which its future greatness will emerge, or will be in a barbaric cultural collapse. Anti-civilization pushes us in many different views and projects. One of them is the sexualisation of minors under the pretenses of science and education. Easy access to pornography, available means of communication, and too busy parents are circumstances that already make it difficult to raise happy, lasting marriages and successful families. To these circumstances are still crazy projects of social engineering, which reap their harvest in Western countries, in the form of broken and incomplete families or the killing of unborn children. The World Health Organization creates absurd and destructive pseudo-educational standards in terms of sexuality, requiring, for example, four-year-olds to experience masturbation. Such sexual education, which is completely inadequate to the age of the child, separated from the context of the family, narrowing and selfishly treating the problem of intimate life creates much more problems than it solves. In fact, these infernal projects take away childhood from children, expose them to emotional problems, premature and accidental pregnancy, deprave morally, hindering the subsequent development of healthy relationships in adulthood, finally expose children to pedophilia victims by depriving them of their natural defence mechanisms and using their trust. The effects of these ideological experiments are truly disgusting. This violates the child's right to a happy childhood, parents' upbringing in an atmosphere of love and security. It also violates the natural right of parents to raise their children according to their consciences and beliefs, for parents do not always know what content their children encounter during innocently called activities. There is also a deterioration of cultural achievements, a regression to the level of the Netherlands, where paedophile parties are legally active. We can't let that happen. It's ecclesiastical. It is worth noting that in the last four years of self-government of supposedly conservative formation there have been no legal regulations to protect Polish children on this subject. The citizens' project is directed against these bad trends, penalising the encouragement of premature sexual initiation, and therefore deserves to be proceded. The Confederation will support it by submitting its own amendment later. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u184	Mr Grzegorz Braun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u185	God bless you, Marshal, at work for your country and Merry Christmas - still valid in the octave. Nothing to add, nothing to say, about what the applicant's representative said from this bleacher, after what you heard from a few of my predecessors. Old, good words: Innocence, virtue, virginity, purity are not legal terms, of course. We do not want the Polish Penal Code to operate with such terms. However, we remember - at least some of us in this traditionally deserted House today remember - that whoever harms, stumbles one of the little ones, it is better that he hangs a millstone around his neck. We are not so radical as to postulate the implementation of this evangelical recommendation at the level of laws, codes, but we act in a state of higher necessity. The revolution, the depravity of which is an instrument, attacks young Poles. We therefore pay the utmost attention to this submission, to this civic project, and we will support the procedure which, I hope, will lead to its (Bingle) adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All the time, listening to what you're saying, I wonder if we really understand the same thing about the words that we use because I have some doubts. The applicant's representative says it's not an education bill. The question is, did you read the justification, because the whole justification relates exactly to education. You also refer to John Paul's words several times. II. I haven't heard a single statement from the Pope that would be against education. On the contrary. Education is a process of seeking knowledge, seeking knowledge, asking questions. Tell me how it is possible that a young man can learn about building an anatomical frog and not about his own anatomical construction. I think knowledge, scientific knowledge, reliable knowledge well chosen for the age of a child never corrupts it. This knowledge must be wisely applied, but it must not be against gaining knowledge. I have a very important question for you: Do you know that nothing happens at the Polish school (Dawn) without the knowledge and consent of your parents? Oh, no, it's not. Thank you very much. Maybe that's where you're supposed to lead your solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u188	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And I think it's true. Another question, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Stop pedophilia - I fully agree with this title. I also wholeheartedly support that there is no pedophilia in Poland and that no children in Poland are sexually abused by adults, but for this to happen, it must be good, effective sexual education. Therefore, I have a question for the applicant: How do you want to protect Polish children from pedophilia, e.g. children used by priests? Who would such a child talk to? How would he even know he's a victim of a crime? What will replace sexual education in schools? What will replace the conversation about our body, our sex life, if you can't do it at school, in the educational structures of our country? I didn't have it in school and I'm alive. Are we therefore doomed to pedophile priests or not, sir? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Jacek Tomczak, club PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is difficult to discuss many of these civic projects - which were created at the initiative of the citizens who brought them in because they express important intentions - embedded in one segment today. This shows how today's authority treats citizens' projects: it practically makes it impossible to debate them in substance, adding them at the last possible time. This project, like many other projects, was created by a certain intention of many parents, a concern for the protection of important constitutional values. This concerns, for example, the protection of Polish minors from corruption by the state. The question today is: How much does this project raise this issue, and how does it solve this problem? There seems to be a number of definitions missing here (The Bell), for example the definition of paedophile behaviour. Thank you very much, sir. It's not about pedophilia, it's about pedophile behavior. I wanted to ask... Thank you, sir. ...which, in your opinion, is the limit between content that can be regarded as depraving and content that should be passed on, for example, as part of the subject of family education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a pedophiliac spread outside the schools. The TV shows how good people, priests, teachers, etc. talk about pedophilia. Then anyone who wouldn't normally think about pedophilia thinks, "Oh, if these people are talking about pedophilia, it must be interesting. Yeah, for example. TVN promotes pedophilia. Of course I do. That's not what we were talking about. I went to school. Nobody talked about pedophilia and there was practically no pedophilia. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There was no sexual upbringing, and yet I have eight children. Without sexual education, I managed to do it somehow. And the second thing I want to say. The Polish state protects pedophiles. As long as it is not in the Penal Code or in practice it will be said that it will be impunity when the father or uncle or uncle or another representative of the victim gets paedophile in the face, we will think that the Polish state protects paedophiles. The police can't fight it. It's gotta fight the family. We're betting on a family that can fight pedophilia. Thank you for your attention. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Question to applicants: Why do they fight education under the cloak of fighting pedophilia? Why do they de facto allow paedophiles to have such easy victims in their children? I mean, lack of education makes it easier to be a victim. Why in their project with such a noble name do they want to punish teenagers for trying to be happy that they want to have a successful sex life, which is what we care about later, that is, children? Why are you finally trying to promote homophobic actions in such a lying way? Because you're doing it. Those trucks of yours that drive around the city, while people really have different problems, health problems, safety problems, disgusting homophobic propaganda, and they just lie. And you're not talking about pedophilia in the Church, which is an important problem. You're not talking about what we really need to do, which is how to really protect children from pedophilia. Very simple question: Why do you have a disgusting idea under your noble coat that punishes you for knowledge and access to it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u196	Another question, Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the left club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Right found, invented various reasons against sexual education. It was not helpful to argue that education would result in fewer diseases, less unwanted pregnancies, less drama. But we still hear bullshit that education is sexuality, masturbation, demoralization. Now the Polish deities have compared education to pedophilia. It is often argued that children belong to the family, so it is the father and mother who are to educate in this field. Already in the 1970s, a question was asked to the human rights tribunal: Can a school teach a certain worldview if parents have a different worldview? The Court stated: knowledge does not force behaviour. So Polish Catholics can find out what birth control is or how to protect themselves from pedophilia. The science of cutting heads doesn't make heads cut off at all, of course. So I'm asking. : Does the Polish Sejm want the school to be knowledge, or does it want to punish for knowledge? Are we in favour of a secular or religious state, as the applicants want? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u198	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law has a very perverted title: "Stop pedophilia." The projectors, but also the PiS, because, as we heard in the club's position, PiS supports this law, should really answer the basic questions: Does knowledge of what a bad touch is, what a pedophilia is, help the child to avoid pedophilia, or is it a barrier to pedophiles, contrary to what you said? Wouldn't stopping her make pedophilia wider, and the baby wouldn't know how to behave? Do you want to convict children who have problems, fears, often suicidal thoughts because of lack of knowledge of their sexual orientation, that they will not get the help of a psychologist who will be punished for 3 years in prison? Do you think that the best source of knowledge for young people is pornography, which is so much on the Internet? If you answer all these questions, then you are in favour of this very dangerous project, a project (the Bell), which gives free space to paedophiles, pornography and violence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that the thesis and assumptions contained in this draft law are actually affecting the seriousness of this House. I do not understand why this project is here at all and why we are discussing it on this platform. Putting sexual education on an equal footing with the promotion of pedophilia proves, at most, the lack of elementary knowledge of the authors of this document. Sexual education is the best way to fight sexual violence. Protect the children, not the paedophiles. It is our duty to teach children, first of all, what is a bad touch, second, when fun is over, and when they become victims of pedophiles, how to set boundaries. Sexual education is also the best way to promote sexual health and prevent unwanted pregnancies. More unwanted pregnancies are more reasons for abortion. I hear you want to fight her. Where's your fight? Protect the children, not the paedophiles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u202	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł, will speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u203	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The government has not prepared a position on this matter, so I will allow myself to present the position of Minister of Justice. Data on juvenile offences show that only in 2014 the perpetrators of almost half of the rapes were minors, boys aged 13 and 15. 21 rapists were only 15 years old, six or 14 years old, and two were only 13 years old. These figures are from 2014, and today they are even worse. Rape of a classmate after a sexual education class in Wales is one of the examples shown in international media by international specialists as a result of undesirable behaviours that result from It's sexual education in the wrong sense. Today there was much said about sexual education, what it is, but let's reach out, ladies and gentlemen, to the sources. Well, in the WHO report, which the applicant refers to, regarding the standards of sexual education, we read that the child needs to be taught how to communicate, negotiate to have safe and enjoyable sex. How's that, ladies and gentlemen, for the current criminal laws that we already have? Whoever presents pornographic content to a minor is a criminal is punishable by imprisonment. There are already such solutions in the current Penal Code. Further examples could be given showing that pornography, various compulsive behaviours, which according to experts are the result of this abnormal sexual education, then lead to crime. Another example, ladies and gentlemen, before 2014, from the UK. At the end of November 2013, the British public was informed of the decision of one of the English courts which sentenced them to forced three-year treatment - namely what? - rehab from sexuality, sexuality, one of the perpetrators of violent crime. It was a boy who was convicted of rape, attempted rape, sexual violence. The general surprise and shock was the fact that the perpetrator was a 13 - year - old who admitted that he had the consent of his parents to view pornographic sites since he was ten years old. The person also added that the sexual violence she was undertaking was the execution of images previously observed in adult films. In the UK, the national health organization is hitting the alarm. We're in Poland. The number of unwanted pregnancies is increasing. According to a study carried out in 2011 by the British Health Service, an average of one in five persons surveyed at the age of 16 and 24 were forced to take abortion measures. As many as 60% of them admitted that they did not use any collateral. 22% surveyed boys aged 16 and 24, said that they had survived their first time before they were 15 years old. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] According to reports from British experts, this results in national education being conducted in the UK for several years in an institutionalised manner, mainly by informing about biological issues related to human sexuality, teaching how to use contraception. In many schools, there is even a distribution of contraceptive pills. From the instructional lessons of sexual upbringing, the child is mainly encouraged to try. That's Britain's experience. This topic is also known to other Western European countries. And this is where I give my vote to the experts. Let us give the floor to those who are investigating the criminalisation of the youngest ones, those who should be protected, those who should, as we are today, be those pure, innocent beings protected by the law. We therefore support this project as the Ministry of Justice. We believe that it is heading in the right direction and is aimed at protecting children. Early sexuality not only interferes with the emotional, intellectual development of the child, but can also lead to addiction to pornography, various compulsive behaviours, resulting in the breakdown of families and others (the Bell) of negative behavior. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please refer the project to further work. Thank you very much. Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would very much like to ask you to calm your emotions. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The habit of smoking witches had its good sides. We're in the courtroom, not at the fair. I ask you to calm down, Madame. Mr Mariusz Dzierżawski, a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, is invited to speak. You're welcome, sir. I'll give you the podium. Shame! You are not at the fair, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I expected to hear questions, some substantive comments, but I met a steak of insults from representatives, or actually representatives of the Civic Coalition and the Left. Exactly. I don't know if my statement will be considered an anti-woman, but, well, that's the facts. I must say that when I listened to these speeches relating to the project in which it was said that it would not be possible to observe at all, to talk about venereal diseases, that it would not be possible to conduct psychological therapy, I wonder where you got it. From your project. I have the impression that you can't just read or lie. Where's that thing in the project? If Mrs. Scheuring-Wielgus finds it, it's $1,000. I guarantee you, and I'll apologize on TV... Good. ...that psychological consultation can't be. Contrary to what came out of one of the ladies' mouths, I didn't say we weren't in education. We're in education, yes, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, we're in education, We are protesting the depravity that is taking place under the cloak of education, and we are all aware of it, because these numerous NGOs that were mentioned, paid generously by George Soros and others like him, are multiplying like mushrooms after the rain. You ask what the relationship between pedophilia and sexual education is. I'll give you an example from Canada. Benjamin Levin, Deputy Minister of Education and Advisor to the province of Ontario, wrote a program in the field of sexual education and sought its introduction. He turned out to be an active pedophile. He advised on the Internet on how to prepare children for rape. I don't have time right now because I see I have two minutes, there are more examples. I recommend a brochure on how to stop a pedophile. The ladies of the left, to whom also the Civic Coalition needs to be included, spoke of the beneficial effects of sexual education, the modern one, in the West. Yes, twice as many venereal diseases in Germany as in Poland, much more pregnancy among teenagers and abortions. The World Health Organization, which the state is so eager to refer to - its main objective is to multiply abortions. Tens of millions of abortions, and to a large extent this is due to the World Health Organization, which should be called the World Death Organization. I was amazed to see you speak from the Polish Coalition, who said that he was a conservative, and claimed that such sexual education as in WHO standards must be promoted, because there is pornography, after all there is depravity through other channels. Yeah, there's pornography that destroys children. And here, the ladies on the left who spoke about it, I have a question for you: did you do anything to stop pornography? Yes. I haven't heard anything about it. The pathetic thing is that people who represent themselves as conservatives say that this is the way it has to be, that is the world, that we are flooded by pornography, that we still have to be flooded by pornography in schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what happens in the West and we want to protect Polish children from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u206	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. There was a motion in the discussion... Corrigendum. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like to correct. I'd like to answer your question. ...I don't see any grounds for correction, and you've been pointed out once that you've violated the seriousness of the Sejm, so I don't want to repeat it. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion (Print No 36). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Kaja Urszula Godek to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Since my speaking time is limited, the whole speech will be sent to the media in a moment and you will be able to read the whole of what I have to say to you there. And for the moment, some of the most important passages and facts. We talk about whether in Poland you can cut people alive without anesthesia, we talk about whether in Poland you can strangle an innocent child with an early birth and then put them somewhere in the delivery room - because it happens often in delivery rooms, where life is normally given, and not picks up - if you can put this child away and wait for hours to die until it chokes. And that is the substance of this law: to remove the possibility of doing something like this to a child, because he is disabled. Since this project was already being examined in the Seym of the previous term, we basically said everything about it. This was a debate that took place in the Sejm - even though this debate was being tried to censor, especially in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, which I will continue to talk about - it was a debate that took place in the media. We've had a lot of arguments. Today is a simple choice: you're for killing or you're against killing. And it revealed this debate in the previous term of office a few key things. Firstly, the question of killing children before birth is fundamental, deeply moving the hearts of many good people and triggering a social resonance. Rejection of life protection projects does not result in people abandoning values, but it mobilises them more intensively to defend them. It will be so this time, if the citizens' project is rejected or transferred to the committee and subjected to obstruction there. We will not give up on you, honourable Members, for the sake of life. We're gonna follow you to committee meetings, remind you of the media thing, and we're gonna stand outside your offices and outside the halls where you meet the voters, and we're gonna claim every child being killed. Secondly, on average, projects that ban abortion sign between four and five times more citizens than projects that extend the possibility of killing children. Feminists mostly lie about the scale of support for their murderous demands. Civil gatherings and later verification of signatures at the Sejm Office reveal these lies. Thirdly, the behaviour of Members on abortion has a fundamental impact on decisions taken by Poles during subsequent elections. With all my power, I would like to stress that this will be the case now. We are looking carefully at the actions of Members. What happens to the project will be an essential criterion for the presidential and parliamentary elections. This observation of Members' actions will begin today, ladies and gentlemen. Let's see what you want to do with this project. Fourthly, during the past term of office, blocking the project was the most active of the members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the subcommittee established on the basis of this committee. From this fact, it comes to the conclusion that eugenic practices are needed by the Polish state just to implement the principles of family and social policy. Do you hear that? The selection and killing of people considered subjectively inferior is a tool for conducting social policy in Poland. Eugenics is simply essential for your functioning. It saves money on benefits which, as always in social order, belong to a large group of people, but really enough for some. It gives you the opportunity to wash your hands from the need to provide treatment and education for children with special needs. This approach was presented most clearly in the infamous analysis of the citizens' law written in April 2018 by the Office for Sejm Analysis. The Sejm's staff explicitly expressed their opinion that the adoption of legal protection of children's lives with defects would result in high costs for the budget. Fifthly, after the last term of office of the Sejm, we know for sure that the path to protecting life does not lead through the Constitutional Tribunal managed by the puppet president Julia Przyłębska. As the Legislative Initiative Committee, we supported the submission of a request to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the eugenic condition in October 2017. Madam President, I'm just asking for a slightly different form of speech, okay? What do you mean? It's not insulting. Please do not review the speeches and please use the ad vocem mode. It's not a review. I'm asking for an extension of my time if I have an interruptible statement. Because it's really very little time. The submission of this proposal in October 2017 was the right move, and the proposal itself honestly considered could bring a breakthrough in the fight against the crime of eugenics in Polish law. The point is that the announcements by the president of the Constitutional Tribunal on the procedure of the application in a few months did not work out, and Julia Przyłębska herself proved to be a proponent of passiveness on the protection of life. That is why, in the new term of office of the Sejm, we have been appealing from the beginning not to apply again, and we are still in the position that it was a serious mistake for its initiators to submit it. We understand that some parliamentarians again signed this proposal in good faith (the bell), but the initiators were aware that when submitting their application, they gave an alibi not to take up or delay work on the abortion ban law. Thank you very much. Therefore, with the full power of all Members who have signed an application to the Constitutional Tribunal on eugenics, we call for action in Parliament... Thank you very much. ...so that they do not deviate from what is the primary duty of every Member, i.e. from the adoption of a law. You know perfectly well that the current rules are not in line with the Constitution and that eugenic abortion is incompatible with the Polish basic law. The case law of the tribunal is ready. The judgment issued in May 1997 made it clear that the protection of human life also concerns the prenatal stage of the child's life. Thank you. So there's nothing to wait for. TK judgments under Julia Przyłębska will never be held, and the citizens' law is an easy way to seal the protection of unborn children. Thank you very much, Madam President. Your marshal, the last three sentences. On behalf of the citizens, I call on the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to adopt as soon as possible the law brought by nearly 1 million Poles. We experience unprecedented national quarantine time when we are trying in a special way to reduce the risk of illness and death of our loved ones, and abortion is a pandemic much worse than a coronavirus: it brings more victims and all are fatal. Thank you very much. That was three sentences. Members! Wash off the shame of what happened to defending life in the parliament of the previous term of office, the disgrace... [[The Deputy Marshal shuts off the microphone, the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u208	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on the agenda item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle... Formal conclusion, Marshal. Your predecessors gave more time to applicants' representatives. Please write it in writing. They increased the speaking time by 3 minutes. It's been extended by a minute. Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Marshal Terlecki extended his speaking time by three minutes. And I made that decision. The Sejm has determined that in the discussion... Thank you very much, Madam President. Formal request to change the way the discussion is conducted. Please submit your application in writing. ...he will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle on this item. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bolesław Piech, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour of expressing my views on the initiative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative. First of all, it must be noted that no abortion is allowed in Poland. There is an absolute principle of the protection of the unborn child or, in the nomenclature, of the human fetus. However, there are three exceptions that arose in discussions similar to today's dozens or maybe decades ago. Three exceptions have emerged from them - in Article. 4a of the 1993 Act These exceptions were related to the protection of the mother's life - when pregnancy threatens the mother's life. There were criminal cases here, mostly rape victims, and a pregnancy resulting from this rape. And he was a famous mouth. Two who talked about the occurrence of certain circumstances. I used to be a medic, and I'm a medic, and they were talking about the so-called. the reasons or grounds of the child. How does that recipe sound? This provision sounds that way, of course, it's an art. Article 4a (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (2) of that law, prenatal studies or other medical conditions indicate that a serious and irreversible impairment of the foetus or an incurable life-threatening disease is likely to occur. This proposal, in principle of the legislative initiative, only applies to abortion. This discussion will always continue, because here we have something that was perhaps 20 years ago obvious, today it is not obvious. It's not like medicine is futile. The question is, can we continue to talk about the grounds and not about the evidence? The question is, is there a probability or certainty? Probably this paragraph, probably this point needs to be discussed and discussed. However, I would prefer it to be clarified, not as it is in today's law. There will always be two strategies in this House, too. Some will be in case of doubt: I am for life, others will be: or not necessarily. This is the famous legal principle in dubio pro vitae, which is always, in case of doubt, most great humanists were in favour of life, first of all. Secondly, I would like to thank you because it is not easy to mobilise by initiative and collect almost 800,000. signatures. It is not an easy matter and therefore I do not want to hear that these citizens have no right to live and express their views, live and express their opinions in Poland. These are Polish citizens. [[Applause]] They signed, probably underlined their address, probably wrote PESEL too, which is not so easy in GDPR times. That therefore deserves recognition. I don't have it, of course. there are special claims that there are parties who do not support this principle, but that's what the debate is for, and that's what discussion is for. I believe that, in view of the fact that I believe that we have inaccurate data here, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to refer this proposal to the committee. Privately, I wish this time the committee wasn't a famous seym freezer. There are certain things that need to be resolved, you must have the courage to stand up for death or for life, you must be able to raise your hand and you must do so. There's no reason to hide your head in the sand. As a result, the parliamentary club is in favour of directing this project to the Health Committee. This time it concerns absolutely medical, health conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will take the floor of Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u211	Miss Marshal High Izbo! Before I start, I'm going to turn to the gentlemen who are holding power in our country today, and they seem to be better, they can do more. It's up to you whether this bill's going to be processed or not. Take responsibility for this and leave the women alone. [[Applause]] The right to abortion, which is currently in force, is the possibility of abortion in the final situation, it is the possibility, the right to choose, the right of women to decide. A woman's right to choose in extreme situations must have. It seemed to me that such things would cease to be the subject of a political game, because matters of conscience should be excluded from it. We should decide what to do to make women feel safe to have support, but we can't decide and make decisions for them. I really am very sorry that once again the applicant insults Members, insults us all, blackmails us all. We know what freedom is, what responsibility is, what women are responsible for. Women are responsible and when they make a decision, they know that this decision is absolutely right. We should support them in these decisions. You want to make this bill, you think it'll be quiet that we won't protest, we won't talk about it out loud. I know that now we can't go out on the streets and protest, say, leave this bill, make sure women's rights are implemented, but we will scream very loudly, because the hell of women is everywhere where it's quiet when they don't talk about it, and we must speak loudly and ensure that women feel safe so that they have the right to raise their children to be healthy and have a decent life. We women are responsible for all this. I just wanted to say that I'm not a big fan of abortion, but I'm a hot opponent of taking away women's rights and tightening up the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u212	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Barbara Nowack. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The eyes of millions of Poles are on the Sejm today. The Polish people are afraid for their health, for the safety, for the health of their children and their parents, for their jobs, for failing companies, and for the Sejm takes care of the hucpa. On behalf of these Poles and the Civic Coalition Club, I request that the citizens' project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]] We need to be clear about what we stand for. Are we in favour of women's health and safety, or are we in favour of ideology and fanaticism? Embryopathological considerations clearly indicate permanent and irreversible damage to the fetus, which is what? Brainless, spinal bifida, cerebral hernia - these are indications that the fetus will not survive, that it often dies at home or in hospital in front of the mother. The whole family suffers, often the health and life of women are also at risk. That's what we're talking about, not good will, love and empathy. We are talking about the choice between the health and safety of women, their right to decide about their family and the ideas of fanatics, because no one forces anyone according to Polish or any other right to abortion, so no one has the right to prohibit women, especially in such dramatic situations, from making this choice. 43% The electorate of Law and Justice is against tightening the bill. Remember that, ladies and gentlemen. Remember, too, who will be the victim of these restrictive laws. They're gonna be poor women, women out of the question, women who are having a hard time getting into a gynecologist today. There's a pandemic going on. Girls can't go to a doctor to see how their pregnancy is going, and before that, this access was very limited. The gynecologist is often visited by a doctor, sir, several dozen, several dozen kilometers. And the gynecologist in Lublin, Podkarpacie or often in Mazowieckie receives once, twice a week. This is what care looks like in Poland. Prenatal tests are actually not available. By adopting this project, you will cause some doctors because of fear, and some because of ideology will not direct women to prenatal research. The rich can handle it. The rich will be fine, and they'll go to a doctor abroad, and they'll go to a big city. You condemn poor girls to fear, to fear that they will give birth to a very sick person who will not be able to cope in life, that their entire family will be traumatized, because that will be the consequences of restricting access to prenatal research. Next: The victims of these actions will be young girls who will simply be afraid to seek happiness and love, they will be afraid to start a family as a result, because something will happen, because in another project you are in favour of restricting sexual education. You have to be brave and politics takes courage. It also requires courage to say that Polish women are wise, courageous and aware that Polish women will always choose well, choose their own welfare, but above all their family and their loved ones. They don't make decisions just like that, they make them always thought out. That's why tightening up this law is simply hitting half the population, taking away credibility. We don't agree to that. Thousands of women protest, as Margaret Kidawa-Błońska says, online. Thousands of women today are screaming: stop digging into our rights, give us the right to freedom and dignity, give us the right to security, give us the right to happy motherhood, leave this law, stand on the side of women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u214	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Joanna Senyszyn will speak remotely, so we will wait for a moment. We've already got a connection. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard lies about the alleged killing of conceived children, lies about protecting children with Down syndrome. Most abortions due to an embryopathological condition are caused by the finding of life defects. Do not let yourself believe that the project protects life, on the contrary, endangers the life and health of women. It concerns several hundred legal treatments per year. There's still more than 100,000 left. illegal, underground. Do you really want to drive him a clientele? If you want to reduce the number of abortions, support sexual education and contraception. The project is contrary to the constitution because it constitutes discrimination based on the level of wealth. Safe abortion will continue to be easily accessible to wealthy women. The poor will make it, endangering health and life. The bill will help to abandon children and break up families. Now one child is abandoned every 10 hours. You guys want some more quitters? 80% fathers leave the family in the event of a child's disability. You want to break up families? It's cheating to invoke church authority. The famous Milan Cardinal. Martini thought legal abortion was less evil because it eliminates illegal, dangerous women. 43% PiS voters are in favour of the liberalisation of abortion law, 72% I don't want to change. Listen to them. You still have time to come to your senses and behave decently. I move that you reject the project, keep the abortion at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u216	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u217	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! For 30 years there has been a war with women in Poland. Religious fanatics and the right have sold women's rights, calling it an abortion compromise. As a result of these fairs in Poland there is a repressive anti-abortion law which deprived women of freedom to decide about their life and health and took away their dignity. What kind of country is this in which politicians are at war with over half the population, or women? Know this: if you vote in favour of this project, you will lead to a total disenfranchise of women and sanction the status of pregnant women as incubators. A woman will be forced to give birth at all costs, even if the fetus has no chance of survival. You tell thousands of women to give birth only so that they can helplessly watch a child die in horrible torments. It's inhuman. Law and Justice insisted on proceding this barbaric project, without regard to the pandemic of Coronavirus, when people lose their health, their lives, their jobs and their sense of stability. Cynically using these limitations, the PiS wants to push the laws proposed by fundamentalists to please the Church to support Andrzej Duda in the presidential pseudo-boroughs. You wipe your mouth with slogans about the sanctity of life and at the same time plan to send 30 million Poles and Poles to the polls to risk their lives in undemocratic elections. You are such defenders of life - from conception to voice. It's pure hypocrisy. But I have some bad news for you. Most societies support the liberalisation of abortion, as the Left proposes in its project. Women don't fold umbrellas. If you dare to implement this draconian project under the protection of Cortipinus, your rule will end sooner than you think. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u218	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u219	Do you think we're idiots? The fact that you're making us do a soulless, barbaric project today... This is a parliament, ma'am. ...to whom, as we know, the vast majority of society is opposed, that is the height of hypocrisy and cynicism. As an opposition, we must speak, although we believe that this is the least appropriate moment for the debate on such an important and complex subject as reproductive rights. Complicated, because abortion isn't just a ban or a lack of abortion. It is also sexual education, access to medical services and their quality, to prenatal research and contraception, it is family policy and support for disabled people, it is finally constitutional rights and human rights. This is an important subject and should be dealt with with with due care and respect for all concerned, with respect for women. You have just shown us and all Poles that you have no respect for anything. We are in the middle of a pandemic, thousands of people have been left without means to live, their lives, and it is not a rhetorical figure, it is in your hands, they are at your mercy and disfavor. Meanwhile, all you care about is the election campaign. You tamper with the electoral code, ignore the economic and social problems. You think you're gonna distract us from this by pulling an abortion out of your hat. This tactic is as embarrassing as this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u220	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Confederation's Circle of Posel... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, Mrs Agnieszka Ścigaj, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15 on the citizens' project to amend the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion. Ladies and gentlemen! I will present my position on how to proceed, not on this bill, because the Polish Coalition club in these matters, and this is undoubtedly a matter of value, ethics, worldview, leaves its Members free. We will try not to judge, at least in my speech, the values of each Member. On the other hand, we cannot agree to what is happening right now. And here I respect almost 1 million, as you said, of the people who signed this bill. It is about using the subject, playing human life in a cynical political game, and unfortunately at a time when this life and health take on special importance for many Poles and is a fundamental element of attention of all these times. We can't agree to that. Mrs. Kaja Godek has talked about many things here. The fact that Law and Justice are very often playing political games with electorates of various opposition groups, with electorates of opposition, is understandable, but the fact that they play cat and mouse and use carrots in the case of their electorate, which they have been having for many years, is really cynical. I think you deserve a few facts you've already mentioned, Mrs. Kaju. First of all, this law is being dealt with now. There was no need to process this bill now. It was possible to process it in 2016. She went to the freezer, specifically, on purpose, to the committee, to a subcommittee that never once met in this case. Double application to the Constitutional Court. Do you think anything else will happen in this case? He's gonna be on the committee, too, maybe a subcommittee, and he's gonna be stuck there too. But there is a time when, indeed, once again for voters, the Catholic environment can be shown carrots because the presidential elections are going. Maybe it'll work now. It's not gonna work. I'm telling you it's not gonna work, because Law and Justice don't have that kind of will. It is not true that there was no other way to proceed over this bill. First of all, this could have been done since 2016. Secondly, Law and Justice can change laws very quickly when they want to process something. The Citizens' Initiative Act actually forces the Law and Justice to do this, because this is the last moment, but after all, the last meeting could have just changed it and moved it, knowing the state and time we had to talk. Unfortunately, this law needs to be discussed, not only about abortion, which is sometimes the result, but about the causes of abortion, about prenatal care, about people with disabilities, for whom there is still much to be desired about care, about caring for single mothers who are also in a difficult situation at the moment, actually no one is taking care of them, about many issues related to helping women with such decisions, about psychiatric, psychological care. These are really topics that need to be discussed in the context of the causes of abortion, which is what we should be talking about. You have called the project "Stop abortion," "Stop abortion." Me and most of my colleagues are in favour of stopping the abortion, but it's not just about this bill, it's about actually stopping the abortion. I can tell you about many women from my own experience, because I had the pleasure of working with women who made this abortion, who after many, many years had many psychological and physical problems. They told me what the reasons were. It wasn't a matter of law. It was a matter of all these elements and support given to them at the time they were before this decision, before they had to make this decision. Personally, I'm not a big fan of abortion, but it's important to understand that it's not just about writing it down in the bill and yelling out of this speaker. It's important to understand that women don't want to have an abortion. I don't know a woman who wanted to. They don't want to do it, but you have to think about why it's happening. This needs to be addressed and discussed, but not in a pandemic where there is no possibility. Mrs. Kaju! Don't you feel that you and this 1 million people have been subjected to a cynical game all the time, that over this bill you won't be going to argue that you are only needed from time to time by the Catholic community to bow down to them? Ladies and gentlemen! I do not judge any of the Members of the Law and Justice. You have the right, like everyone else, to vote and have a world view. I want you to focus on your own club, whose position you're presenting. Don't comment. This concerns all Members. I'm not judging, and I'm trying not to use any invectives, because everyone has the right to do this, but don't politically play a case like human life. Let's just deal with this honestly, in human terms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u222	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Confederation's Circle of Posel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u223	I have a request not to comment on the statements made by Members or by the representatives of the applicants, because this is not very elegant of the marshals. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The issue of protection of unborn life has two aspects: scientific and ethical. Science is clear: human life begins at the time of conception. This is when a unique set of genes is created, which gives the character of a unique, newly created human being. Anyone who says otherwise is looking for different types of runways is looking for a point to refer to. It always collides with the fact that it is purely discretionary, and the discretionary decision of who is human and who has the right to life has already been tested in history and was rightly condemned as inhuman as murderous. The second aspect, the ethical aspect. Ethics says that every innocent human life deserves protection, especially the most vulnerable, especially the most caring. Ethics also says that weak and sick people should be looked after, treated - this is the role of doctors, prenatal medicine It has developed a lot in recent years - not to kill them. And surely human life must not be destroyed solely on the basis of suspicion of disease, suspicions which are currently not verified in the health care system post factum. Mothers expecting a child should be helped in every way possible. Not by offering to kill a child who wears it because murder is never a help, and women who experience abortion never feel satisfaction or relief because of it, while post-election syndrome is commonly described in scientific literature. I see here a stir among the Messengers of the Left. Ladies carefully avoid this problem, post-election syndrome, which is an studied phenomenon. What you're doing is supporting women's harm, not their rights. You're definitely a specialist at this. We in the Confederation want to help really. We see the problem of parents, especially pregnant mothers. Today there was a discussion about this in a separate point. We set up a Parliamentary Group on Occipital care. Some were ironic that it was founded by men, but yes, it is the responsibility of men that is needed here. There wouldn't be an abortion if there was a loving man in front of women who are pregnant. Most women who decide to have an abortion are pushed into this either by an irresponsible man who threatens to leave a woman or by a family. And the woman doesn't have... A woman, unless she kills her maternal instinct and natural empathy, will always have that instinct to protect her life. On the other hand, the fact that ladies are wearing this black color today is a symbol of the lack of this empathy, something that ladies unfortunately killed in themselves, and what women naturally wear: attachment to life and calling to pass on this life and to protect this life. What are you talking about? Luckily there is a silent majority in Poland, not as noisy as the ladies with lightning on their shirts, [[Applause]] a silent majority who has signed in almost 1 million copies a civic project, a project to protect life. It's time for this silent majority to speak bravely. Half of this room is filled with Members who, for tactical reasons, present the attitude of cowardly passiveness, Members who did not even have the courage to come here and look into the eyes of applicants representing almost 1 million Poles and millions of others who support the protection of unborn life. There's more of us. The Confederacy stands for life. I stand up for life. Life is a right, not a privilege for the chosen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u224	Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. You're welcome. We are waiting, sir. It is not the Member's fault that Marshal Witek regulates the number of members of the Confederation in this Chamber. Mr President, I did not ask you, I did not ask you to speak. It's not a pasture to rush cows. You've just shown your elegance, Mr. Presidential candidate. You're about to freeze. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that such an important project deserves a separate meeting because it is unique. Finally, it decides about the life or death of unborn children. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. Yeah, but let's leave it on the side. In the civic project, stop abortion, it is suggested that the right to life should not be differentiated due to the health of the child. This is the right thing to do. Civilized society can't sentence someone to death just because they have a disability. This is unfair and contrary to all the rules we have. We believe, we believe in love, we believe in the love of a mother for a child, we believe that love is capable of overcoming everything. Therefore, looking at this bill, we have on one side a child who needs care, a child who needs help, a child who needs the love of a mother and a father, a child for whom apart from this love nothing else matters. And that's why we have to take the side of the children and ban the abortion of children with disabilities. In order to check the PiS's good intentions in this matter, the Confederation proposes to proceed to the second reading without delay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u226	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Mikołaj Pawlak asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It has been a long time since there has been much talk in this House about the rights of the child. It's been so long since you've repeated the article. 72 constitutions. It's been a long time since I've heard so much about my duty to protect my children from violence, demoralization, corruption. It's a different project. The irony is that people who are often corrupting and corrupting have said so. On the other hand, I brought a prop with me because the words are fleeting and they'll be out of memory in a moment. Well, there's a rule -- I'm going to keep it for a few minutes -- the Ombudsperson's Act, which upholds the rights of the child, the rights and their hierarchy. You can invent various laws, even the right to recreation during a pandemic, but the right to live and to determine when this life begins is already established. Now I'm talking legal as a lawyer. I'm gonna end up in another tone tonight. I hope so. This hierarchy must be applied. You can't not see it. I've got a couple of copies, I can give some of them, hang them in their offices, when they're conscience-deciding on this project. I remember a few years ago, in June 2015, in the same place where I am now standing, you stood President Andrzej Duda and called on the Ombudsman for a similar project. Well, there's a spokesperson and we're defending this project. I'm acting as a legalist now: give me the tool. High Izbo! I will remind you when this recipe was made: 20 years ago, on January 6, 2000, in the Feast of the Three Kings. For 20 years, you haven't given me a tool to make this recipe. Give it to me today. It's a short bill. I think it can be converted in an hour. Is this recipe, this project sent back to the freezer? He's been frozen before. Something pulled out of the freezer then it's not fresh. You can do it today. Yes, sir. Punish women today. Here's another thing. There's something that's not completely legal, maybe even politically unrelated, and that's not what you're talking about. I think you all have that in this House, and that is conscience. Surely you have a conscience, and a believer, and a person without that gift. You all have a conscience, yes, I'm even convinced that you have a very clean conscience, mostly not used. Do you? But if you're going to use it, especially at this time of Christmas, the Easter octaves, look at you and tonight, and tomorrow morning and ask what you've done with this recipe. The child is a human being from conception to 18 years of age. Conscience, ladies and gentlemen - it's for those who haven't used it yet and have it clean - it's something like that... You're the judge. ...which can sometimes be used to show the right way for you and for all of us. I ask for it on behalf of the children, all the children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u228	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the call list. I'm setting time for the question: 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice. The question will be asked remotely, so we'll wait a minute. Oh, we've already got a connection. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u229	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The initiator of the project is the mother of the boy with Down's syndrome, Mrs. Kaja Godek. He's been fighting for years for the right to live for kids like her son. Although it is the 21st century today, Polish law still unfortunately allows the killing of children with disabilities. It is enough to suspect that the child can be sick or disabled so that he can kill them according to Polish law. Meanwhile, people with disabilities, people with Down syndrome are in no way worse than us, people with health. The law should protect the lives of all people, regardless of their health. It is a great shame for our country that after all these years barbaric legislation still applies, that we allow the killing of disabled people and additionally pay it out of taxpayers' money. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Women and their children deserve real care and care (The Bell) and not to die. So let's put up with abortion and be an example of the country that... [[Disruption of reception]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Agnieszka Pomaska asked about one of the projects a few hours ago in the Parliament hall, she said that it was a collision of civilization, a collision of worlds. This bill is another project of the same type. In the civilizations of the democratic world, the government's goal during the epidemic is to protect citizens, it is to take care of citizens. In countries aiming at authoritarianism, epidemic time is used to take away civil rights. Under the pretext of this law attempts to deprive Polish women of their civil rights today. I wanted to ask the applicant whether she knows that what she proposes in this bill, in democratic civilizations, in the civilization to which we want to belong, is treated as torture. Because torture is forcing a woman to be heroic, torture is forcing a woman to bear a pregnancy, if we know that (the bell) that during childbirth or shortly after birth the child will die. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u232	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very important question for Members of the Law and Justice, especially those in the 2015 and 2019 electoral campaign. It is not the Members of the Law and Justice that we ask the questions. ...promise their voters to tighten up their abortion laws. This question is particularly addressed to those Members who held their election meetings in catechetical rooms and in other parish spaces, often in the presence of a priest. This question is particularly addressed to those Members who regularly participate in marches for life and family. Why didn't your party, Law and Justice, for five years, have an independent majority in the Seym, have its own president, and until recently a majority in the Senate, adopt a tightening of abortion law? What are your true views? Who are you fooling today: yourself, your constituents or the Catholic Church? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u235	God bless you! The question of equality between citizens and the law. Will it finally be respected in Poland? The unborn person has the right to inherit, and therefore still unborn, and already participates, has the ability to participate in legal activities, but the Republic of Poland does not guarantee him the right to live. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, When I listen to you - I'm just a human - I feel like doing something to make you disappear, but I would never in my life vote for you to be sucked away by some big vacuum cleaner... But, Mr... ...or dismember him alive, or strangle him... Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u236	Mr President, I am interrupting this. [[Vice-Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the movement in the Chamber]] I'm interrupting this, sir. What was that? Yeah, what was that, sir? What was that? What was that, Marshal? Your Marshal, in the form of a formal proposal: change the way we conduct the discussion... Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. I'm asking you to give me your vote. Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. Give me your vote. Formal conclusion. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. Formal conclusion... In writing, please. ...to change the way things are going. In writing, please. The next question will be asked by Dominika Chorosińska, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member. I stand by your right to life and survival.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The measure of the value of a given civilization is how it treats its weakest members - wrote Prof. Jérôme Lejeune, a French pediatrician, as well as a geneticist, discoverer of the trisomy of chromosome 21, a man who fought for his life. Ladies and gentlemen! Life is the fundamental right of every human being. The only reason we're all sitting here is because our parents gave us life, they let us live. Everyone deserves this right, and I think it's worth taking this discussion away from a dead point of life that talks about women's freedom against the right of a child to live. I'm all for the freedom of a woman, but that's not what this is all about. Freedom of a woman has nothing to do with the right to live. Abortion is not the right of a woman (the bell), it is the death penalty for innocent children. There's no permission to do that. There's a bunch of women who treat... Thank you. ...motherhood as a gift, and child as a miracle of God. Thank you very much. Question to the authors of the project: What authors... Time! Member, I'm cutting everyone short. ...understood by the notion of eugenic abortion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u238	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Just because we can't go out on the streets and protest today doesn't mean we're gonna agree to hell with women. This will never be the agreement in this House, I hope it will never be, and I hope that today this project will be permanently forgotten by all those who are debating here today. It is a shame that the High Chamber during the pandemic period, during the closing period of all Poles and Poles at home deals with this topic. Leave the women alone. Let them choose, live a decent life, and don't decide for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u240	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. The question will be asked remotely. We've already got a connection. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Where do I start? I would first of all like to go back to what she said in her speech by Barbara Nowack. Well, Mrs Sejm does not deal with any huckle. Just get it to you. The Seym deals with life, something that is most obvious and most basic. ♪ Take it ♪ ♪ Take it ♪ ♪ Take it ♪ Stick it in your left-wing heads and try to understand it. On the other hand, returning to the substance of the matter we are discussing, I would like to ask Ms Kai Godek, the representative of the applicant: Is there a need for an abortion bill in Poland or in the Polish legal system at all, or is there a need for a law on eugenic abortion? I'm asking because I think it's based on an article. 148 § 2 (2) 1 Penal Code is enough, if only this offence is a crime, this act will be drawn under a paragraph that speaks of murder with particular cruelty. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz... Ad vocem, your marshal. But there's no such thing. How can you not? Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. You're asking a question, aren't you? You're welcome. Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the Sejm will deal with the decree to order the birth of terminally ill children. Once again, the politicians of PiS with shoes will enter into the life of women in Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants, PiS politicians. Who do you think you're giving yourselves the right to sentence women to inhumane treatment, to inhuman suffering? Who do you think you're gonna decide if women are gonna watch their newborn children die? Who do you think you're gonna force your loved ones to die in pain, but also the children themselves? This bill is a despicable project. Barbarianism isn't enough to define this bill. We do not agree that a few possessed by fundamentalist religions in the name of their private beliefs would force and under the shadow of the epidemic make us have hell of women here in Poland. We don't agree. [[Applause]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice, remotely. Do we have a call? We do. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u245	Dear Marshal! Dear Applicants! High Seym! I address Mrs. Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Ma'am, this isn't about ideologies. You're based on ideologies. This isn't about them. It is about science - these are scientific arguments - and ethical arguments. Today we must reject all the manipulations that abortionists carry out, claiming that this is about the part of their mother's body that it is about women's rights. Yes, it's about women's rights: little girls, little girls, but boys too, about children's rights like the one I'm about to show you here in the picture. They're children, they're real children. It's about their right to live. [[Applause]] It's an elementary human right. I am sure that today there will be a majority in this House who will take care of this right to life of the unborn. I have a question for Mrs. Kai Godek: Once this happens, when we take care of the unborn, what will you be next? Because that project you brought to the Sejm is very good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u246	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rules proposed by the applicant countries are inhumane. That's why I'm not going to ask you why you want to condemn women to suffering. I'm not gonna ask you because I know rational arguments and solutions to the civilized world aren't coming to you. Instead, I would like to address your fellow Members. Imagine the world created by the people who created this project. This is a world in which there is no constitution, human rights do not apply. It's a world where women don't have access to birth control, sexual education, medical care. It's a world where at least 120 grand. women in Poland perform an abortion every year in the underground, at risk of life and health. It is a world in which the body of a woman is an object on which every few months political interests kill (the bell) people without conscience. Is this the world you want to live in? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Czarnek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u249	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The ideological, senseless blindness of some of the Members present in this Chamber does not allow us to notice that today we are debating a citizens' bill signed by nearly one million Polish adults. This ideological blindness causes that we are dealing with a completely unsubstantiated discussion, separated from the legal reality of the Republic of Poland. Mr Bosak's political blindness did not allow him to see that there are more members of the PiS in the room than the Confederation. But in order to really bring this discussion back on track, I would like to ask you to answer the following questions from the applicant's representative and your Ombudsman, once again, about the legal reality. Is it true that for 20 years the law in Poland provides that a child is a human being since conception? Is it true that the law in Poland, which has been established for 20 years, provides that the Ombudsman is to uphold the rights of children with disabilities in particular, children (the bell) also in the womb? And why didn't your predecessors, Mr. Spokesman, comply with that law and do their duty? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Godek! You say you're for life, but you support universal access to weapons. You say you're for life, and you want to prevent abortion in the event of severe, irreversible, fatal birth defects, although you agree to abortion in other cases. For two years when your project was in the freezer, you didn't do anything, you didn't submit a civil project supporting children and people with disabilities and their guardians. It's pure hypocrisy on your part. One woman, the mother of a well-functioning child with Down's syndrome, wants to decide for all other women in Poland and wants to prohibit them from the right to choose which she had. He wants to force them to report and give birth to severely damaged fetuses. Embryopathological defects, and you know it very well, that's 95%. legal abortions in Poland. Down syndrome is only 200 cases, all the rest are fetuses that die in agony. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're telling women to give birth, but you're not interested in how these women will manage later. You write and you say that love will conquer everything. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you. Thank you very much. Rehabilitation, rest-care, mental health of women who will be forced to give birth deformed... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u252	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now you have the voice of Marcelina Zawisza from the Left, remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u253	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The UN Human Rights Committee dealt with the case of a woman from Peru who was forced to give birth to a brainless child. [[Disruption of reception]] ... After he died four days after he was born. The UN Human Rights Committee has found violations of human rights, including the right to freedom from torture. Why do you want to torture women? Religious fanatics want to force women in Poland to carry a pregnancy that develops with brainlessness, lack of heart, with problems that will only cause suffering and death after birth. Why do you want to force women to give birth to terminally ill children who will die in front of their parents? Why do you want to torture? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u254	We have concluded with this speech by Members. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u255	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government does not present its position on the draft law contained in print no. 36. During this debate, however, many questions have been asked about the government's actions aimed at taking care of pregnant women, a complicated pregnancy, so I would like to present some facts to you. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the current government, the Minister of Health, has been taking a number of measures since 2015 to support families who face difficult pregnancies, complicated pregnancies. As early as 2016, a law on family support, support for pregnant women and families was passed, a law in favour of life, which provides a number of mechanisms to improve the situation of women with health problems. Since 1 January 2017, a new product has been financed, which is directed to women with a complicated pregnancy. This is coordinated care for a pregnant woman - just with a complicated pregnancy. A number of centres were established, in each voivodship a reference centre was established, which coordinates the care of the pregnant woman. Psychological care is also financed under this benefit. I would like to stress that these are additional measures which have been aimed at this very purpose. As part of this benefit, in 2018 it was allocated to support women with a complicated pregnancy of over PLN 250 million. 37 134 pregnant women, who needed such support, benefited from this support. There's a lot of country here. You were talking about the lack of prenatal diagnostics available, so I'd like to talk you out of this mistake. Namely, from year to year, the number of prenatal tests carried out, genetic tests carried out, also increases the amount of resources allocated to these studies. Prenatal diagnostics is very important because early diagnosis of child health problems, diagnosis of these health problems creates an opportunity to take corrective action still in the womb. Such procedures, as you know, are carried out in our country and financed by public funds. Year by year, the number of procedures performed in the womb is increasing. That's how babies are born with more chances of life. In 2018 we spent over 70 million PLN on prenatal diagnostics, and used 106 360 women's diagnostics, which is really every fourth woman. There are specific indications that allow this diagnosis to be performed. Any woman over the age of 35 has access to diagnostics, any woman with the result of e.g. ultrasound studies diagnosed abnormal development of the foetus, each woman who had previously had a baby with chromosome abnormalities, each woman whose family had just this type of health problem. In addition, this law takes action and these actions continue to be supported by women in the field of palliative care. It's a prenatal hospice. The National Health Fund also allocates specific amounts for this purpose. In 2018 it was PLN 418 626. There women can receive support, support primarily psychological, psychotherapeutic, but also support in the field of essential health services. If we are talking about psychological support - this concern has repeatedly been expressed in your statements - women with a difficult pregnancy can benefit from such support under various kinds of benefits. They also use psychological counseling services funded by the National Health Fund, but also at different levels of care for pregnant women, i.e. at third level, specialist level, at regional level, but also in county centres. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, there are a number of activities undertaken by the family ministry. Early support, access to rehabilitation benefits, to medical devices - unlimited, without referrals. These are all actions aimed at improving the situation of both women who have been diagnosed with severe pregnancy, pregnancy with complications, and are directed towards families who are facing health problems for their children. Finally, I would like to stress that in the current situation that we are dealing with in Poland during the pandemic period, we are trying and ensuring that women's access to both medical and maternity benefits is not limited. The National Health Fund finances teleports, thanks to which both the midwife and the gynecologist are in contact according to the needs of the pregnant woman. She can always get advice, and if there is a risk of pregnancy, any woman can go to a hospital. In single-name hospitals for patients infected with coronavirus there are places in gynaecological and obstetric wards as well as in other specialist wards. If it requires such support, it will receive such support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u256	Thank you very much. Ms Kaja Godek, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A few threads that came out here. The topic of choice, the decision-making and the fact that someone has a choice, and someone has no choice. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the life of another man, the category of choice does not stand here. The fact that today we're talking about choosing whether to kill a child or leave a child alive is a scandal. Exactly the point is that in the case of another man's life there should be no elections and no decision-making, only his law, which is protected by the law. Incidentally, it is a law protected by a constitution already at the moment, only that the law is simply contrary to the constitution. If we are talking here, going to the next thread, about the state that we have in the basic law, then the article is in force. 38. which states that the Republic of Poland provides legal protection of life. This legal protection of life for people with disabilities today does not exist in Poland, while it exists for healthy people. It's a typical selection, it's a eugenic practice. All constitutional defenders who today claim that the ban on abortion, that is, the ban on killing people, is against the constitution, simply lying rudely. As far as eugenics are concerned, because here such a question has been asked, then eugenics is -- was, is, because this thought is still present -- pseudoscience, which led to the selection and killing of those groups of people who were subjectively considered worse. It was fully developed in the Third Reich, Germany, where it was led, for example. Action T4, i.e. patients in psychiatric hospitals were selected, people who were either mentally ill or intellectually disabled. Before the Nazi Germans began mass murdering in gas chambers on Jews, Poles, Gypsies and other $20,000. people lost their lives during this action because someone thought subjectively that they were a burden on the state. Eugenics actually served the Third Reich. Today we are looking with horror at the fact that those responsible in the Polish Parliament in the previous term did not want to say no to abortion as a method of conducting social policy, because it is really a reference to the worst patterns in European history, to patterns that cannot be replicated, to patterns that need to be clearly cut off if we do not want in Europe, in Poland, anywhere in the world to repeat what happened 80 years ago. Mrs. Wanda Nowicka was talking about a free abortion here. We're not talking about this at all today, ladies and gentlemen, because this project fell long ago. You're free to put together your drafts. I hope they never leave the marshal's staff. However, when we are talking about free abortion, if Mrs Wanda Nowicka comes out here with such demands, just a month ago was the 77th anniversary of the introduction of free abortion for Poles by Adolf Hitler. I wish you the best of luck on this occasion. [[Applause]] She doesn't have a clue like a free abortion. You're misconstruing the concept. There's no eugenics. As for Ms Agnieszka's statement, I understand that it was self-criticism, because you were in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, and every time you voted in favour of not considering this project at the next meeting. I'm glad we come to the same conclusion. I am glad that we come to this conclusion that there is nothing to discuss more about this project. There is no reason to wonder if a fault is hard enough to put a man to death, whether the defect is light and we will let him live. I can tell you this: in the case of many genetic teams, it's not really known what's going to happen to the baby, the karyotype is being studied. It is tested whether there are two or three chromosomes in a specific pair of chromosomes, or whether these chromosomes are somehow damaged. And that's it. We get a record of the cariotype, we don't get any information about what the level of intelligence of this child is going to be, what the level of the child's functioning is going to be, what's going to happen to that child. It's a roulette, which is why it's impossible to judge whether you can take someone's life or not. First of all, it's impossible to create a death list: let's leave it that way. If we're alive, let's kill one of them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Every man has the right to life and to protect life is the task of the Republic of Poland under the Constitution. This is also confirmed in the 1997 case law. And finally. One of the messengers was talking about torture. Dear lady, torture looks like this: by helping yourself with a speculum (the bell), you put a suction tube through the cervix that sucks the fluids around the baby. To extract a child, use the so-called. Sopher's ticks. The Aborter uses these ticks to grab the child's hand or leg, which he then pulls away from the body. One after the other limbs are torn together with the guts without any anesthesia. The hardest part is getting the baby's head out. She needs to be crushed. It's known to have worked when a white substance comes out of the cervix. This is the baby's brain. The skull, the placenta, the remains of a small man, is removed by scraping them with a gynaecological spoon. At the end, all the pieces are collected to make sure the baby was pulled out whole. Why are you lying? That's not how you get an abortion. This is torture. This is torture for which the feminist environments are in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's not how you get an abortion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u258	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting the Member whose name has been mentioned. There you go, Mrs Nowicka. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! In my speech I spoke about women's freedom, or rather about taking away women's freedom in Poland 30 years ago. On the other hand, the project proposed by the applicant is horrible and discriminates against women. What's more, that bunch of bullshit you're making right now, talking about Hitler here, mixing babies born with fetuses... Everything gets in her head, gets mixed up, and all just to show that women in Poland are some kind of monster. Meanwhile, women know best how to take care of their family, how to take care of their children. I'm sure that's not the kind of person Mrs. Kaja Godek is here. She hates women. I don't know why you hate women so much. Member, but please take care of the subject. You really should consider... Mr. Marshal, what is this? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...what to do to protect women. [[Applause]] I'm asking for your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u260	You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u261	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, is that I can't even sue Mrs. Nowicka because she has immunity. That's why Mrs. Nowicka will walk around telling her lies. If Mrs. Nowicka wants to sue me for what I said, you're welcome. You have already sued Joanna Najfeld once and the court of two instances in Poland has confirmed that you can be said to be on the payroll of the abortion industry. If you want another trial, go ahead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-15-sejm-10-1.u262	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 15 April this year. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 16 April 2020 at 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 45]]
