ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Health-- hour. 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Infrastructure together with the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets - h.m. 15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 17, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u2	Thank you very much. Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal, for the opportunity to make a formal request. The situation is extraordinary. Just after the 11-hour meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, in which we participated, I see that there are also Members from other clubs, members of this Committee. At the committee meeting, it turned out that the project we discussed, after our question to the Legislative Bureau... Well, the Legislative Office, in its opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, stated that this project requires notification to the European Commission. I therefore submit my application to the hands of the marshal. I move that the procedure be initiated for notification of the report of the agricultural committee on the draft parliamentary law amending the Animal Protection Act. What happens if such a notification to the European Commission is not made? Not only will the rules not apply because the Polish courts, on the basis of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, are not to take into account such provisions which were not notified, but also (the bell) officials may be held liable - those who neglect the notification requirement - the requirement for notification. So that I submit an application, Mr. Marshal. I'm adding a memorandum that accurately describes this issue, this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal has an interesting opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u4	Thank you very much for your request. Your Marshal of the Sejm initiated this whole procedure yesterday. Deputy Prime Minister Emilevich started it yesterday. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the examination... Can I have another one, Marshal? Formal conclusion... Ladies and gentlemen, of course, because I am known for my beautiful and great heart. All formal proposals, if they require voting, will be in the voting block and if you wish to deal with formal proposals of a different type, then make such a request. It's just, like I said, we're not gonna be looking into him right now. You want to take a minute, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u5	Dear Marshal, Thank you very much for the opportunity to make a formal request for convening the College. I would like to bring up an extremely important issue in the organisation of the Sejm's work. Ladies and gentlemen! The scandal is that - when we are working on one of the most serious laws on the future of animal protection 11 hours nonstop in the agricultural commission - there is a situation in which one of the most important elements of this law, i.e. ritual slaughter, is maintained by the voices of Law and Justice and the Confederation, extremely important elements such as the protection of animals by chipping, which can save thousands, tens of thousands of animals, are simply rejected, because there is simply a lack of time, legal services are unable to assess our amendments, and cases such as the cessation of use for hard work of horses that are dying over the Sea Eye are simply rejected. You can't work like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have today and there are many elements that will not go through due to the poor organization of the committee's work. I appeal for this, Mr Marshal - you are a member of the college - to put this work in order in the name of the protection of animal rights and what we can bring as a Sejm at that time to this important Polish law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u6	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you... Me, then. No, come on, guys. Everyone does, Mr. Marshal. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, Mr. Marshal, if the others had the right... Sir, it doesn't lead to anything, it really doesn't make sense. Members' comments... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But can you sit down? Oh, no, I was gonna take the floor. Okay, but you won't. This man is bothering me. No, this man, just the Member. So it's not human. Sit down, respect each other. That's right, very reasonable. Now to the Member who called for a good organisation of the Sejm's work. I understand that you also reported this to Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. The Bureau will take care of the good organisation of the work of the Sejm with it. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. MEPs Barbara Dziuk, Piotr Kaleta and Wiesław Krajewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice wanted to ask a question about helping local governments to carry out their tasks under the Self-Government Road Fund. This question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Minister Rafał Weber will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. The first person is Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since the United Right rule in Poland, a great work has been undertaken, i.e. cooperation with local governments. One of the areas that is very important, supporting local authorities, includes the Self-Government Road Fund. In connection with this very important task, I would ask the Minister: How and when can money be spent from this fund? How are this money awarded, in what procedure? How can local governments get information? Who has the authority to give a hint about the important investments that local governments are waiting for? Because according to the rules: to decide centrally, to act locally, the Ministry of Infrastructure, listening to all the needs of local governments, has undertaken such a great work, a great mission that everyone was waiting for. We know what self-government roads look like, and I wanted to thank you very much for this programme, but as far as the details are concerned, I would very much ask for information from the Minister. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u8	Thank you, Member. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 230 million PLN - on the example of Wielkopolska I wanted to say about assumptions for 2021. The question is simple, short. Given this example, are there any adjustments envisaged in view of the situation of the COVID in our country? Whether local governments use all these resources or have problems with so-called. With my own contribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u10	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Member of the Commission. - (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The Self-Government Road Fund is indeed the top on the government's agendas of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This is a response to the gigantic demand of local authorities, the demand that has been formulated and directed to the government and parliament for years to create such a multi-annual tool to support investments in local roads: and local and district roads. The answer of the Government of Law and Justice was very rapid, because the law itself contains implementing rules, but also the financial perspective of the Fund for Roads of Local Government, a 10-year perspective, was adopted by the High House in October 2018 and since 2019. The Fund for Roads of Local Government exists and supports local road construction. Ladies and gentlemen! What is characterised by the Self-Government Road Fund is above all the scale of support. Only in 2019 did we give the local government 6 billion PLN as support for investments, mainly municipal and district, but also for investments in voivodeship roads, if they are of defensive importance or if they rely on the construction of bridge crossings. So that PLN 6 billion in one year, while our predecessors spent in 8 years of their governments, supporting local government roads, the amount of PLN 5.5 billion, so that one year of the rule of law and justice is PLN 6 billion, and 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party is PLN 5.5 billion. So that this is one very large, very significant, beneficial, positive for both the local governments that use it, and for the government that created this program, the difference. On the other hand, 2020 and here, answering the question directly by Mr Piotr Kaleta was very difficult due to the epidemic of Coronavirus, but did not stop government support. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on 15 April, i.e. when there was the greatest concern, what next with programs supporting local governments, approved letters, thus answering questions and local authorities, and the local community, whether during COVID our programs will be maintained. We immediately said that our programmes would of course be maintained and the answer to this was the signing of a letter by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which provided funds in 2020 for 2,300 tasks of all, and municipal and district, from all over Poland received support. However, as early as the first half of July, the voivods announced recruitment for 2021. 2020 is PLN 3200 million, 2021 is the same amount. In the first half of July, in the first half of August, these recruitments were completed. Now an analysis of these proposals is underway by the voivodship committees. They are to go to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers through the Ministry of Infrastructure in mid-November, so that, I think, at the turn of this year and next year, a decision is made which applications will receive funding and which proposals will be supported. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Government Road Fund in difficult times of COVID has been maintained and even enlarged. I think these messages from the government and exactly Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will be here any day now. We will show new financial resources, show new opportunities, open a path for new beneficiaries of local roads to expand the investment range of modernising local roads. We know that local government roads require intervention, we know that they improve the quality of life of Poles. These are roads that serve for daily communication, school, work, shop, church, cultural center, health center. Millions of Poles travel these roads every day. They must be safe, they must be comfortable, they must be comfortable. Local governments have so far had a lot of difficulty getting government resources, because there were just few, but now this availability is so big that for example. In 2019 every local governmentman who applied correctly from the formal side, sooner or later, sooner on the basic list and later on the reserve list, received support. So that together in 2019 we supported more than 4 thousand. tasks and municipal, and district. In 2020, as I said, this is 2,300 tasks. I think there will be a similar quantity in 2021. I want to be precise, in 2019. 4280 tasks received support under the Roads Fund, 1700 tasks have already been completed, these roads serve, these roads are used by the local community. And even today we received an invitation to open one of the roads in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship in the commune of Liv. Unfortunately, we will not be able to reach because Minister Andrzej Adamczyk is in Lithuania, I have obligations here in Warsaw, but let's also be glad that local government officials want to show their investments, want to show government support and not only carry out their basic tasks, but also (the bell) want to show these effects and enjoy them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Wiesław Krajewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u13	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Local governments in Poland are very grateful for this project: The Fund for Roads of Local Government. It is extremely strong support for sometimes poorer municipalities and districts from our territory. On the other hand, I would like to make two points, Minister, and I would ask for an answer. Namely, the funding from the Self-Government Road Fund for district and municipal tasks depends on the income of local government units, among others. The smaller, lower the own income of the self-government unit, the greater the value of the co-financing. However, after these 2 years of experience in cooperation between local government officials, the governor and the minister, such two topics emerged. Namely, there is a suggestion to consider changing or supplementing these criteria by the amount of tax revenue per capita declared by the Minister of Finance for each municipality, it is the so-called. indicator G, because the change (Dzwonek) of the current income calculation mechanism, which is the basis for determining the amount of funding for municipalities and districts from the Self-Government Road Fund, will be fairer in particular with regard to those poorest local governments, municipalities and powiats in Poland, and we know that there is a differentiation of the wealth of individual municipalities. And another question, if you don't mind. For tasks longer than one financial year, it is suggested to introduce more flexibility in the possibility of changing the amount of grants between years. For example, one of the municipalities from the region of Tarnów from Małopolska east in July this year. carried out a bridge task financed by the Self-Government Road Fund 9 months before the deadline. And the point is that this kind of investment can be accounted for before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the absence of time, I did not say one more important thing, and the Member pointed out to this: the Self-Government Road Fund offers the possibility of getting support of up to 80%. Local authorities have never had such opportunities before. It is understandable that each of them would like to receive this kind of support in order to allocate less funding from their budgets and have it for other types of investment. The percentage support shall be defined in Article. 14 Act on the Self-Government Road Fund. It's an algorithm on the basis of which the voivodships determine percentage deviations between 50% and 50%. 80%. Voivodeships have some flexibility here, and it's up to them to shape these deviations. And we, when we get this kind of information in the last 2 years, are wondering how to change this algorithm so that it actually gives some financial justice to prefer these actually poorer municipalities. Perhaps some adjustments will be made when the Act on the Fund for Roads is amended, and such a change in the near future, still this year, awaits us. We're open to suggestions, we're open to demands. Of course, such a change will have to be agreed with the Ministry of Finance, because we are working very closely on these issues, for which the Minister present in the Chamber very warmly thank you. However, we do not prejudice at the moment that there will also be some changes here, which in our view will give financial justice, will prefer poorer communities. The question of the distribution or settlement of such a task over the years will verify the matter, because it is up to the local government to decide, it is he who brings to the voivodeship - and through the voivodeship later to the Prime Minister - a multi-annual task, and it is as if he decides on the distribution of this task over the years, in terms of financial issues, that he himself decides how much money he will want to spend in a given year - and how to settle these funds - for one task. We're not interfering. If there are situations where the local government will complete this task earlier and there will be financial opportunities to settle it also earlier, I think that this would also be an option. I'll be honest with you, I'm gonna have to verify this case calmly. Another topic: a good complement to the Self-Government Road Fund when it comes to raising own funds for this type of investment is the Self-Government Investment Fund. These 6 billion zlotys, which were allocated by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, are now being transferred to local governments. I know that some of them will use these funds precisely as their own contribution to the Self-Government Road Fund. I also think there will be those who [[♪ The bell ♪]] These further 6 billion PLN, which will be divided in the contest mode, will also want to allocate to support road investments. We are seeing really huge investment traffic on local roads, very big, very strong. These are social expectations. The Government of Law and Justice wants to meet these social expectations by supporting local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u15	Thank you, Minister. I thank the Members of the Law and Justice for asking questions. We move on to the next question to be asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska and Mr Sławomir Nitras. This question will concern the availability of influenza vaccines, and the Minister of Health, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski, will be happy to answer this question. The first person to ask the basic question is Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a very simple question: Could you give me here, in Parliament, and through me and through Parliament to all Poles, the addresses of the pharmacies where you can buy flu vaccines? I'm asking because I didn't find a pharmacy like this in my region at the moment. I'm asking because I couldn't find a wholesaler in my region where these vaccines would be. I'm asking because tonight - to make sure that I don't expect extraordinary things - I called my clinic and asked how I could inoculate myself. In previous years, there were vaccines in the clinic, and I was vaccinated. Today, a very nice lady said: Unfortunately, you know, now it's like this: you have to get a prescription, there are queue lists in pharmacies. If you buy it, you call us and we make an appointment, we'll give you a shot. I did not ask for myself, Minister, I asked - if I may say so - on behalf of almost 10 million Poles at the age of 60, over 60, including almost 7 million Poles at the age of 65+. I'm not gonna talk about the health workers anymore, 'cause I could still talk about them. I am talking about this category of people, Poles who have heard for at least 8 weeks that they should be vaccinated against influenza. I have questions: Where are the drugstores where the vaccine is? What it was like when you ordered the vaccine, which is in the spring, when you knew there was a pandemic, that you ordered the entire 1800 thousand. vaccines, which means that maybe - I don't know - 4%, 5% Could the population (the bell) be vaccinated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u17	Thank you very much, Member. From what I understand, Minister, it is clear that we are waiting for at least a few dozen addresses of Polish pharmacies to be mentioned for six minutes. I'll say... It could be in writing. In writing, we'll spread it, we'll do the flyers. It could also be in writing. However, I am also very interested, because I belong for some time to a group of 60-year-olds. It's not until May, and I'm fine. But you don't know what it's gonna be like in November. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u18	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Marshal, Thank you very much for the question. I wanted to say that according to the health inspector's message, there are mandatory vaccines and vaccines recommended. As far as flu vaccines are concerned, these are recommended vaccines. As far as compulsory vaccines are concerned, the Ministry of Health in the central tender buys them and transmits them to medicinal operators. This is due to the fact that, in the case of compulsory vaccination, the State is taking care of how many people have been vaccinated and how they have been vaccinated. There are also certain legal rigors, you can fine them with fines. In the case of influenza vaccine, there is no such situation. There's no obligation to vaccinate yourself with the flu. What are you saying? It is a recommended vaccine and therefore cannot be purchased for the benefit of the State. We as a country do not buy medicines as a whole and do not pass on medicines, in general as all medicines, to patients, because they are responsible for this. The Ministry of Health organizes the whole process, organizes the refund process. As far as fully paid medicines are concerned, they are sold by the responsible parties, wholesalers and pharmacies. This is what the pharmaceutical market in Poland looks like and so is the case with vaccines. Last year - because we deal with this issue on a seasonal basis, taking into account individual seasons - more than 4% of the population has been vaccinated. With these medicines refunded, 300,000 were vaccinated with the vaccine refunded. persons. That's 300,000. individuals with regard to the refundable vaccines. For this year, in the case of this population group that has been so far, we have decreed 160% The same thing as last year. Because these are two different groups: vaccines refunded and unrefundable. And because we know that demand is much higher, we have allowed two additional companies this year that can sell their medicines on the refunded drug market. At the beginning of this medicine, which has been on the refunded market for 2 years, Vaxigrip Tetra, and since this year also Influenzac Tetra and Fluenz Tetra, a nasal vaccine for children. In total, 218% of the drug-refundable vaccines are listed in the market for medicines. What's sold. It's a lot of growth, because not always a company... Well, that's a very big increase. With regard to non-refundable drugs, unrefundable vaccines, about 1.5 million vaccines were sold last year, of which about 100,000 were sold. In addition, companies had to dispose of it because there was no need for these vaccines. Of course, this is also a business activity. I don't mean to say that pharmaceutical companies operate solely in the interests of society and for its sake and do not look at their profits. They also look at profits. If there are no sales in Poland because there is no interest, companies are less interested in this market. And neither are we able to decree for citizens, and therefore citizens themselves, together with doctors, decide whether to inoculate themselves. As far as the data we have on the Integrated Marketing Monitoring System are concerned, there are now 260 000 on the market. packages of influenza vaccines, of which... Plus 233,000. vaccines have been carried out. The vaccination season in Poland is from September to December, because the disease peak is from January to March. Therefore, vaccinations are recommended until December. As you said, today we have agreed with companies what companies have declared that they will definitely introduce 1.8 million doses to the Polish market. Because I'm saying here... When it comes to refunded vaccines, there are 650,000 of them, and when it comes to unrefundable vaccines, these are the others. This includes workplaces and various other vaccination schemes. And here we have 1.8 million and a guarantee that there will be much more. Actually, from what I can see, when it comes to interest also in wholesalers, I think there will be no shortage of vaccines (the bell) this year. Okay, it's me... I didn't. I didn't discuss everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u19	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering the question that you have asked. Let me remind you that was a question about the pharmacies where you can buy it. I will help you because I live in Grochov, Warsaw, and I have a pharmacy in front of the Shaser family. I'm gonna go tonight and see if you can buy it there, and I'll tell you tomorrow. In this way, I will help the Minister a little. Here's the question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! I'll help you. There's writing letters in the pharmacies. It means that even if the vaccines are delivered today, they're already distributed because people just signed up. In general, vaccines are only protected for medical purposes. Minister! I wonder what you're here for. You came here and said there was no demand. Every family doctor in Poland asked about vaccination says: vaccinate, vaccinate. Vaccinate all children, vaccinate teachers, vaccinate everyone over the age of 50 to keep us safe. But it's voluntary. We were hoping that there was the Health Department, that someone was watching over it, someone knew that there would be such a demand. Comparing demand this year to demand last year is some kind of misunderstanding. Did you notice that we have an epidemic of coronavirus that people want to vaccinate themselves? It was the perfect time to teach Poles how to immunize themselves because Poles felt the need. And what did you do? You didn't do anything. You say the ministry isn't for that. So what is the Ministry for, if not to secure the vaccine in an emergency situation for Poles? You didn't help us with anything. You behaved exactly like you did in the spring. A little respect. In the spring, you said you didn't have to wear masks. Then you guys were gonna go out and buy whatever you wanted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Next thing you know, the public will be outraged and you're gonna be buying anything in the world again, anything that's gonna get in your way, and there's gonna be a big deal again. You're gonna be buying from some highlander or you're not gonna know who. Don't lie to me. You didn't help us with anything. You haven't considered the fact that there's a coronavirus, and you haven't done anything all summer to buy a vaccine for Poles. Time's up. Discipline. A dozen million people should be vaccinated, and you say you have 1.8 million vaccines. Mr. Marshal... People will kill themselves for it. I'll tell you what, it was the same with the Coronavirus test. It's a Member's culture. For your PiS activists, you've secured the tests. Each minister has been examined several times. You guys just have respect for people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u21	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, the grandstand is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u22	Actually, I don't have much to answer. Then quit. You emotionally maybe said too emotionally that there's actually nothing going on, that the government isn't doing anything. You said it. Sir, I was gonna say... I just explained to you that you don't know how the drug market works. Perhaps you don't have any economic information about how the market works at all. Answer the question. How many vaccines did you buy? Sir, I told you that vaccines are normally purchased by patients. The Minister of Health does not inoculate and buy 1.8 million vaccines to inoculate members of his... He should be buying. That's your recommendation. I say that there is no and there will be no obligation to vaccinate, there will be no penalty for the fact that Polish citizens do not vaccinate. You're useless. You expect Poland to buy state medicines in principle and then sell them back to its citizens. We bought 1.8 million vaccines. I don't know if you're aware, but the manufacturing process is also ongoing and planned a year in advance. There was no Coronavirus epidemic last year. I don't know if you're aware, but she wasn't there. Therefore, normally, in the planned mode, wholesalers and pharmacists order vaccines. In October Ub. there was no demand in wholesalers or in pharmacies for additional quantities of vaccines. Therefore, I said that the Ministry of Health... We always see that the more suppliers there are, the easier it is to negotiate the number and price. Therefore, to one producer, vaccine vendors added two additional vaccines from two producers. We have three suppliers and negotiations are much easier. I wanted to say that the vaccination system is until December this year. And the vaccines go down all the time. $230,000. The vaccine was administered from 1 September. That's a very good result. More deliveries are planned. Of these 1.8 million, only 400 000 were transferred to the market. So that further deliveries are planned. They'll be mostly at the turn of September and October. The remaining deliveries will be here by the end of December. As I said before (the bell), by December we will still have a lot of deliveries. You're useless. I wanted to say, of course, that's what you say about yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u23	Thank you very much. I think it'll be easier if we don't stick our dawgs on one side and on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to question number three. Question 3 will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska and Mrs Zdzisław Wolski and Mr Przemysław Koperski from the parliamentary club of the Left. This question will continue to be addressed to Minister Maciej Miłkowski, as he probably has not addressed all aspects yet. The question concerns the lack of availability of influenza vaccines despite recommendations for this form of protection against infection, too few contracted vaccines in relation to the needs, actions taken to complement and improve the supply of influenza vaccines to pharmacies, sources of funding and distribution of free influenza vaccines to medical professionals, and the indication of the medical professions concerned and the rules for eligibility for vaccination. It follows, Minister, that this problem is of interest not only to the Civic Coalition, but also to many Poles and many Poles. There you go, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's exactly what it looks like. If two clubs decided to devote a question to the same problem, this is a fundamental problem today, the concern of the entire Polish society, of all Poles and Poles who leave pharmacies with a receipt. In Polish pharmacies there are not only waiting lists. They're no longer listed as waiting lists. Pharmacy's desperate for no vaccines at the warehouse. The Minister's answer was messy and untrue. We are not talking about refunded medicines - of course we would like to talk about refunded vaccines - but we are talking about vaccines at all. These vaccines are gone. We have a pandemic all over the world. Minister Szumowski himself recommends flu vaccination as a basic means of preventing COVID disease. This is the case throughout Europe and around the world. It could therefore be predicted that there would be a need in Europe for these vaccines, that simply these vaccines you have to contract and make sure that they are available. We've had a pandemic since March, not since today, and today these vaccines are needed, not in December. People are desperate, especially seniors, risk people. Even this group lacks these vaccines.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u25	You haven't left a lot of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u26	Yeah, I don't have much time left. I happen to be an intern doctor, and I took 32 patients on Monday. I have a very specific question, Minister. We have a bit of a return to the Polish People's Republic, to the queue committees, some pharmacys have stopped writing because they already have so many registered people. The right to vaccination should be given to all (the bell), but from the health minister's point of view medical personnel should first of all be vaccinated: doctors, nurses, and especially people who are at risk in terms of age, associated diseases. Do you, like in the Polish People's Republic, because this is the situation you're in, want to issue some cards? 'Cause that's what happened. How will these vaccines be distributed, which will affect to inoculate health professionals not only in their own interests, but also so that they do not rule out the flu from the use of patients? Because it's going to be such a thing that doctors who are missing are going to be even more lacking, just like nurses. How will these vaccines be directed to the most vulnerable, most vulnerable? Because that's what happens when I work 40 years, even in the Polish People's Republic, I couldn't imagine. Please respond to the distribution of the next batch of vaccines.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u27	Thank you very much. Minister, I invite you very cordially. Please answer as much time as you think it is appropriate for everyone to be happy. The microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you so much for the questions. We will move a little away from Mr Neumann's situation. Thank you very much for a very factual inquiry concerning specific risk groups and to begin with, I will go to the groups recommended for vaccination by all the levels, i.e. medical staff and non-medical staff, which is in the process of providing health services. Often these are halls, medical transport personnel or other people who also work with patients. For the first time this year, the Minister of Health gave information, a recommendation to the National Health Fund to carry out additional vaccinations of medical personnel and all those involved in the medical process, as well as pharmacists and pharmaceutical technicians who work in pharmacies. Therefore, the Minister has bought vaccines for these individuals and will pass them on to individual operators, as well as some operators have bought vaccines themselves for their own use. We know they did, and they've got deliveries, they've got contracts signed. Therefore, we plan that the demand for all those who want to be vaccinated as medical personnel will be fully sufficient. This vaccination will take place in the first half of October this year. We'll distribute the vaccine. The National Health Fund pays for the qualification of patients - in this case doctors or nurses are patients - and accounts for health benefits. There are two modes of settlement: with the vaccine itself, bought by the medicinal product or with the vaccine given free of charge by the Minister of Health. We assume that it is enough for everyone, for all the staff who will want to immunize themselves, because we have to say here, that as far as medical personnel are concerned, so far there have been not a very large number of people who have been vaccinated, it has not been much more than for the rest of the population in this area. That's why we want to make it possible to facilitate the vaccination against influenza. The other groups that we are particularly interested in are the groups of the most vulnerable patients, i.e. patients 75+. The Minister of Health assumed on 1 September an additional benefit of free vaccination of patients 75+. If these vaccines are not enough in pharmacies, then the Minister of Health plans a similar movement as in the case of medical personnel also for patients most in need, i.e. patients 75+, plus, of course, patients in care and care facilities, care and treatment, because this is the most vulnerable group. I hope, actually, I know that these people are going to be vaccinated, as I said before, also without coercion, without coercion, it is a vaccine recommended and with the consent of the patient will be able to be vaccinated. These are the two groups. Let me say one more thing: here everyone expects the vaccine to be here today, right now. Normally in Poland we have this recommended period from September to December, so that it is spread over 4 months. This is where we talked about making sure there's any vaccine. I don't think at this time anybody can buy a vaccine that'll be available at the pharmacy. I know this because we have analyzed the availability of vaccines on the European market, possibly additional ones, other markets, Asian or American. We therefore believe that these vaccines will not run out, and we will be very happy, because next year it will be much easier [[♪ The bell ♪]] negotiate further purchases, of course in the normal, correct range, because in Poland there are quite cheap medicines compared to drugs in general in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u29	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Dr Med. Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u30	Thank you for the factual information, but you have to admit, Minister, that spring, the period when we were already afraid of COVID, even more than when it developed in the future, was the time to estimate how many vaccines should be ordered, how much money should be spent on the refund - or 50% I don't know if it's free. That's when you underestimated the problem. You ordered far too little, little more than last year. That's the objective truth. In my opinion, the Minister's optimism is probably not justified - I would like it to be justified - because the situation with regard to vaccine producers is that there are many, many countries with more vaccines in queue, and I do not know if we as Poland are going to... The aim is to clearly exceed the forecast of over 2 million (The Bell). I'm almost done. It's just that in a situation where there's a shortage going on... You spoke about the medical staff, rightly, and about the group of these vulnerable, very well, but whether or not there will be a paradoxical situation, that healthy, normal - normal in the sense: without danger - people who should also be vaccinated will not be able to get the vaccine, because we should add, I do not know, uniformed services, representatives of many other professions who work in such a way that they are particularly exposed and to the flu, and to the COVID. So that we could expand this, these groups, which could lead to a paradoxical and very dangerous situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u31	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u32	First thing. I already told you, we've allowed two more companies. Actually, as far as the next company is concerned, in order for the company to have a refund, it has to file a refund application. This is quite a lengthy process. In this respect, in order to expand this, we started talking to the company in April about submitting a refund application. The company managed to submit a refund application in July, we were monitoring the process all the time, and in September she received a refund decision as well as a second company. It's about a baby vaccine we didn't buy last year. This year, because of the situation of COVID, we also bought it. I'll tell you what, we've got another application for another group of patients currently being processed. On November 1st, we would like to extend this vaccine. It's again the most popular vaccine, Vaxigrip. As far as the demand for sales is concerned, the willingness to sell - as I say, I don't know how it's going to be with patients - I see that, looking at the size row, we have preliminary declarations for about 2 million vaccines. So that I do not think that there is a shortage of vaccines in Poland, because everything depends on supply and demand. The demand is greater this year, so we will buy more vaccines and those who need it will be able to inoculate themselves - large purchases are planned for September - also, as I said, the most vulnerable groups, risk groups. That's what we've been doing and we're going to do. As I say, next year will be much easier, because companies will be able to plan significantly higher funds immediately in the refund process, at the current price, of course, because we have the lowest price in Europe. Since we plan well, these prices are about 45 PLN. Of course, the nasal vaccine (the bell) is twice as expensive because it is made differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u33	Thank you very much, Members. Thank you very much, Minister. You know I'm not being mean, so please don't take the absolute attention I make to being mean, but it's very good that you're guarding the transparency of the vaccine orders, because it's a good direction. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15, who will ask a question related to the operation of the seed evaluation laboratory. This question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by Minister Jan Białkowski. Mr President, three minutes for you, but if you say a few more seconds, we will not fight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u34	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! During the May debate, the majority of Members in the High House drew attention to the increase in the competences of the PIORiN, saying that this would involve the restructuring of the institution and thus increase its funding in view of the greater scope of action. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development assured us that PIORiN is ready to take over the tasks from the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection. These assurances made the vast majority of Members, because up to 447, were in favour of the bill. Dear Minister, From many voivodship plant and seed protection inspectors and voivodship agricultural chambers, I hear that the planned restructuring of the institution may have a negative impact on Polish agriculture. This is the alleged elimination of the seed evaluation laboratory in many WIORIN laboratories and leaving only a few studios throughout the country since January 2021. Such a significant reduction of PONs is detrimental. The efficient evaluation and certification of seed is very important both for seed producers and for farmers who receive seed. This is mostly visible right now, in September, when manufacturers are trying to meet customers' expectations as quickly as possible. The elimination of a significant number of seed evaluation studios will result in an even longer certification period, and consequently farmers may not receive for the duration of the seeds which they should apply to their fields during agrotechnical periods (the bell). The most difficult situation will then be mostly in north-eastern voivodships, where the growing period is the shortest and the time is the least. In addition, seed producers will be forced to travel far more miles away from the laboratories for sampling. As a result, they will lose more time to travel and their costs will increase due to increased fuel consumption. Minister! I have four very important questions. Is the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development planning to liquidate part of the seed assessment workshop? If so, why? How many studios will be decommissioned and when? Second question. If the resort plans to reduce the number of studios, in which cities they will remain and according to what criteria did the selection of the studio take place? Third question. Can the Ministry determine how long it will take to evaluate and certify seed if so many persons are released? And question four. Is there a planned reduction of PONs in the first six studios, i.e. in those voivodships that produce the most seed? In these voivodships, where most samples are taken, is it also expected to eliminate PONs? Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u35	Thank you, sir. You got 1 minute 32 seconds more. Thank you very much, Marshal. Therefore, of course, the Minister should also fight, answer all questions one at a time. On the other hand, with an additional question, Mr, 1 minute and the end - a basic story. Maybe I'll have all the answers. No, I know the ministers, they're not gonna answer anything, so there's probably gonna be an extra question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Mr President, I would very much like to reassure you. I don't know where you get that information, it's really just some rumor. What will happen after 1 January 2021 is the result of the Law of 13 February 2020 on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. According to art. 61 of this law as of 1 January, the voivodship laboratories pass into the gesture of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection and they remain there. We're not shutting down any studios, everything's gonna work the way it's working right now, and the employees are all going through the art as well. 23 [...]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u37	Well, then the Minister didn't use his time. If you are satisfied, we are moving on. It's only short. Short. If you don't, please stay with the minister. Minister, you're welcome. Shake hands, smile at each other. Okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u38	We can do this. Short, Minister. First of all, letters came to me from many voivodship agricultural chambers, from the presidents who submitted such requests to me. It's not such a question to ask you ad hoc. The deal is that what we've accepted is primarily the evaluation of fertilisers, and some of the directors say there won't be any rooms for the PONs. The ladies are retired, they will retire and there will be no recruitment. Those are the subjects that came back. We have six or seven Provincial Agricultural Chambers, and so do the directors of the Voivodship Units of the PIORIN. If you confirm that they're going to work quietly from January 1st to the labs, I'll go back to the field and say that everything... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Białkowski: This follows the provision of the article. 61 laws. Everything is described so that there are no threats. Don't worry. Mr. Marshal! The Minister's word is more expensive than money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u39	I like it anyway. I like to run a session when smart people meet and there's a smile on their faces. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the next question that will be asked by Members Joanna Borowiak and Marek Pole from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question will address the actions taken to ensure the smooth functioning of schools, the health safety of pupils, teachers and school workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. The answer will be given to the Ministry of National Education, and on his behalf the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to ask her questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Coronavirus epidemic caused a sudden departure from stationary education for children and young people and the introduction of remote education. It was a very serious and demanding challenge for teachers, for students, but also for their parents. Since 1 September more than 4.5 million pupils started teaching and teaching classes in 22 thousand. schools. Back to school was preceded by preparations. We know about the work and recommendations of experts, about nearly 500 meetings of school curators with school heads in cooperation with district health inspections. But it must also be remembered that in order to support schools and local governments in the implementation of the educational process, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Digitalization prepared programs • Remote school+ • Remote school+ • Creating the possibility for local authorities to apply for funds of a total amount of over 360 million PLN for the purchase of computers and software. Also thanks to the joint operation of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Health, several thousand dispensers and disinfectants were sent to schools and institutions in the previous school year. Minister! I ask you to give us an approximation of what measures have been taken by the Ministry of National Education to prepare schools for the start of the new school year and to ensure the smooth functioning of schools and institutions, as well as the health safety of pupils, teachers and workers in the event of the outbreak of Coronavirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u41	Thank you, Member. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u42	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this question, because it is worth talking about what we are doing, what we have done, what is still ahead of us all in this difficult situation, unprecedented so far, because after a few months from the beginning of March, young people, children, teachers return to their stationary teaching, taking into account the various ways in which they organized, as well as the psychological and mental barriers involved. First of all, it was necessary to prepare this return well, and also to inform about all these actions, about all these principles. Maybe I'll start with this number for today, which is from yesterday afternoon. She's important because she shows what it looks like. At the moment, we have 99.5% in steady-state teaching. schools and institutions. This is very much, this is very good, given that it has suspended activity, which is in total remote education, 61 schools, or 0.13%. The rest is hybrid teaching, or teaching, which really boils down to the fact that class or several classes can be excluded. It's not that the school doesn't work, it's that part of the school doesn't work. And that was very important. I return to the way we have come to those solutions that work today, also, and I always want to emphasize that they are not final, they are not revealed. If we have to change something, modify it, we will, of course, work on it. Practically since the decision to suspend the activities of schools and educational establishments, we have been preparing to open them up, and given that it was necessary to conduct children through examinations, through recruitment, we have been preparing in parallel in discussions with the Minister of Health, with the chief health inspector, with the local authorities, to how, in which conditions depending on the situation of the epidemic school to open. We have also been watching the situation in Europe, we have been in direct contact with the similar ministers of the European countries, and on this basis we have prepared the actions that we announced on 5 August. We announced August 5th. It's important to know that the school guidelines were announced on August 5th. They were handed over to all the directors and were presented a calendar of activities that would belong to the ministry, to local governments, to directors, to curators. At that time, we also announced major, important solutions to regulations, which were reduced to what organisational models schools would work. This regulation was signed on 14 August. It should also be said that apart from the fact that these legal solutions had to be prepared, they had to be well informed, because what was the biggest problem was information noise, untested information, various so-called. fake news that led to tension and disturbed such factual preparation of schools. We have, of course, prepared these variants, which are already known here. This variant is traditional, hybrid and remote. And what situations, how these options can be applied, has been well developed with the Chief Sanitary Inspector, also passed on to district inspectors who, on the basis of the WHO guidelines, decide together with directors to use one of these models. And, as we can see, it works, and it's very important that... And here's the part where I'd really like to thank you. That's where I'd like to start. That's 99.5%. schools work in a stationary way, but I also want to say that with very important guidelines, i.e. very important sharpenings on how to care for hygiene, how to organize classes. These guidelines have been adapted to the possibilities of school regulations. I've been to a lot of schools, some schools are big, others are smaller, in some you can separate individual communication lines. I really must thank all the school heads, all the teachers, so well that they are prepared for this difficult, psychologically, to start the year. I would also like to thank the health inspection, also the district inspection, and the chief health inspector for their cooperation and for being open and properly conducted, as has already been done here, 500 meetings with school heads to develop these paths of direct contact and rapid action, to prepare such activities, i.e. five regulations, including two COVIDs, and one on safety and hygiene in public and private schools and institutions. We have already modified these regulations, taking this solution, that if the Director considers it appropriate from an organisational point of view, he may limit the duration of lessons to 30 minutes, as well as individual teaching may be at the request of the parent, which is important, conducted remotely. This applies to chronically ill children, particularly in areas which are more at risk of epidemics. I've got a lot of information about what's going on. I'm the only one who can signal it in the short term. But it was very important that such a process of communicating information was developed. And there was a bookmark on the MEN website: [[♪ The bell ♪]] safe return to schools where all information was provided. We've done so-called. Q&A, i.e. all questions, the answers in this tab are and are sent to schools. An informant has been sent to school heads showing good practice. We also try to speak directly, to tell you what this issue looks like. Besides, of course, if the marshal would be kind enough to allow it, I'll add... He'll be very kind. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Thank you. ...that at this time, of course, we are working to improve possible remote work techniques, which should not only be used as a recipe for crisis action, but should also enrich stationary teaching, and we are working very hard on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. I am sure you will say a few more words, because Mr Marek Polak is preparing to ask you a question. You're welcome, we're connected. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, We all know that a student who attends school, who has direct contact with his peers, school atmosphere and surroundings, is developing best. And it's very good that the students returned to school after a half a year's break. But during the pandemic period, it is difficult not to be afraid of the emergence of local outbreaks of coronavirus infection, so I would like to ask what procedures and actions school heads will take directly in case of suspicion of a student or an educational institution worker for infection with this dangerous pathogen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u45	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u46	Thank you so much for that question. We have worked out these procedures with the Chief Health Inspector and the Minister of Health. But first of all, you have to start with prevention. So once again, the schools have already received guidelines on August 5th. These guidelines are two-track, some for those localities from Poland, where there is no increased risk of coronavirus, but there is also a package of guidelines for schools, students, teachers more restrictive, in those localities which are in the area marked as yellow or red. Then, of course, there must be increased attention. On the other hand, what follows from the guidelines and what the Director later adapts to his rules of procedure, is e.g. separation of zones for younger children. Often, directors made such decisions so that the classrooms would not move, but the teacher would come to them. This is, of course, a recommendation particularly in more vulnerable areas. For some only classes, such as languages or PE, or IT, classes move. There are also different entrances for each class, there are divided classes and they know that they have an entrance: A, B, C etc., if there are these entrances five. So that numerous actions are taken. But what's most important is information and awareness. We don't send sick kids to school with symptoms of any infection, any disease. We don't come sick to work. If the child has come healthy, and you can see the symptoms in him and the teacher or director will see them, then he has already worked out direct, rapid contact with the parent in the regulations, and he informs the parent as a matter of urgency. He's gonna call the doctor. The doctor will direct and decide whether these are symptoms that give an indication, so there is a test. After the examination, it decides whether it is an ordinary infection and the child is being treated, whether the child will be treated and quarantined. Then an epidemiology investigation is carried out by the health department, which will indicate who has had close or further contact with him. And then it's decided whether there's a class going, a few classes going into quarantine, and how many teachers going into quarantine. And in the case of quarantine, of course, for teachers, if there are no symptoms, with the agreement of the teacher, the teacher can conduct classes. We have also accepted the possibility that when part of the school has remote classes, these classes and content, the number of these classes is adapted to the possibilities of the school. The Director shall decide how long the lessons will be and how they will be conducted. Today I can say it works well. Everyone, after a moment of tension like this, understood this mechanism. The district health inspectors, who are professionals and support the director in deciding on the school's organisational model, are very important support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because they have expertise, while the principal knows his school and children well and at this point you can make the right decisions. We're aware that's why we created this hybrid model that will help without shutting down the entire school to create safe conditions for others when there's a danger of infection somewhere. So that we are open to all changes and comments, but today I can say that the state is working, the services of the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health, the Chief Health Inspector, local authorities and directors have worked, for which I thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Members. I'm glad it's Thursday, too, and you're acting like the Minister said. That's good information. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Czesław Mrozek and Urszula Zielińska from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition wanted to ask about irregularities in the implementation of the investment of the Ostrołęk Power Plant and plans to restructure mining and fair transformation of coal regions. Minister Artur Soboń will answer these questions. You're welcome, sir. Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u48	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! In power companies in management boards, supervisory boards in management positions are employed by people associated with PiS, to a large extent without adequate knowledge, experience and competence. Some of them demonstrated specific abilities by organizing a pathological arrangement for public spending through their own companies. Several days ago, the Central Anti-corruption Bureau informed that four people had been detained in connection with corruption in contracts in one of the energy companies. Searches are ongoing in dozens of companies, in dozens of places in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a closed thing, but a part of the problem. Energy has become a tool for achieving political goals, millions of zlotys from energy companies have been brought to the Polish National Foundation for such purposes as slandering Polish judges. They were brought to the maintenance of the poor mining structure, the satisfaction of the Land lobby's claims, but above all the billions of zlotys were used to achieve the party goals. In order to gain support in elections, Law and Justice made wrong decisions that cost billions of zlotys. An example is Ostrołęka, a non-economic investment which was undertaken in 2018 and stopped at the beginning of this year, losses amount to about PLN 2 billion, only to gain the support of voters, although the leaders of the United Right knew exactly that it was an uneconomic investment. Therefore, I ask what actions the Polish State has taken, the control authorities in relation to this pathology, so that these damages do not arise. For these damages we pay all, energy consumers [[♪ The bell ♪]] electricity in the electricity bill. We also pay our own health. The PiS government has been putting coal on Russian coal, most Polish cities are polluted, our cities are most polluted in the European Union. What measures have the Polish state taken to prevent this damage under the PiS regime? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u49	Thank you, sir. I'd like to invite the Minister. Oh, it's gonna happen. I can see it from the Minister's past. Is he gonna make it? We'll see. He can do it. He can do it. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The escalation of expectations is unnecessary here, because, of course, I will answer to the honourable Member in substance. I remind you, though... I didn't expect anything else from you, Minister. There you go. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Artur Soboń: However, I would like to remind you of the time when hundreds of lists of shame were published, how the Civic Platform filled the companies of the Treasury. Read your letters because no one's gonna beat you. Bravo! And if you are talking about people who are dishonest, then their place is exactly where you said, which is before the prosecutor... [[Applause]] That's Ostrołęka, Minister. ...who puts charges against this kind of situation, regardless of who they relate to. On the other hand, if we are talking about investment in Ostrołęka, this investment must be looked at in the context of the whole energy policy of the state, i.e. how we will proceed until 2040. And by 2040 for market and regulatory reasons, as the High House certainly knows, we will withdraw coal-based manufacturing units and invest in low-carbon production sources. At the same time, during the period during which we will implement the state's energy policy, natural gas, whose emissions are lower, will of course play a significant role, and we also have a high degree of flexibility, the ability to regulate production, the ability to quickly ensure the security of electricity supply. In short, this is the fuel that may be during this period, and will be used to implement the state's energy policy. The company was therefore set up to implement block C within the Ostrołęka Power Plant, with the participation of Energa and Enea. In April of this year the State Treasury transferred shares from Energi to PKN Orlen, thus Energa is now part of a large capital group and it is Orlen who is responsible for the analysis of all investment projects that are carried out within the group, that Orlen today evaluates these projects in detail. This, of course, also applies to such a large project as the construction of block C in the Ostrołęka Power Plant. He's gonna apply to the D.A.'s office. On your own. Since, as I have said, the new model of the European Green Deal assumes the rapid development of the system units that produce electricity from forced production renewable sources, it is not appropriate for coal power plants, therefore for regulation, and the market is forcing a thorough analysis of this type of investment, especially since - as the High House knows - their financing today is not possible both by the European Investment Bank and by commercial banks. Therefore, the change of strategy, which PKN Orlen has already communicated, and the decision to prepare the construction of the gas and steam block in place of the coal block, which is dictated by everything I have said. There is no mention of irregularities, but there is a consistent adoption of the reality of the European Union's climate policy today. There were 2 million PLN losses. I understand that ladies and gentlemen do not want to leave the European Union, so we apply the rules of the game in which we implement the energy policy of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Both of you, as president of Orlen...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u51	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Urszula Zielińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u52	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to the future of energy. I thank the Minister for mentioning the European Green Deal. Very important arrangements will be made this week on the European Green Deal. Minister, the whole transformation of Polish energy is indeed crucial for our security and energy and climate, but in this process it is very important that it be done in a planned and fair way. Righteous primarily for miners and communities of mining regions, coal regions. That is why I have two questions for the Minister, and in them cleverly hidden two suggestions. First of all, what is the current state of play in this negotiation process of planning the restructuring of mining companies? Which mines, which companies will be destined to be wound up? What will be the structure of these (the bell) that will remain, or when we can talk about it in the committee on the. energy and the Treasury. I have a conclusion here, I'll file it, but I'd like it to be a constructive conversation, so we'll fit in with the deadline. Secondly, what is very important - if I may, Mr Marshal, for another 30 seconds - is negotiating these briefing packages for miners, which we owe all support, above all professional development and work, considering or offering training in other branches, more developmental renewable energy, thermomodernisation, electromobility, digitalisation, etc., etc.? We owe it to the miners. I'm very interested in that. Do you take this into account or plan it, and if you don't, can you take this into account? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u53	Thank you, Member. We are all interested in how the Minister will cope with cleverly hidden suggestions in the question of the Member. He'll be fine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madame, I answer the second question precisely. Yeah, we definitely want to use the funds available for that, too, so I'm ready to talk about it at the committee meeting. At the moment, however, we are having a dialogue with the social side on the restructuring of mining. These conversations have so far been system shaped, i.e. the social side did not expect work on details of restructuring in particular of the Polish Mining Group, but also other mining groups, while it expected the construction of the whole system. Therefore, we honestly provided all the information we had. This was information on the state's energy policy, the European Union's climate policy, these were questions of energy imports, coal imports, the implementation of contracts concluded and the relationship between professional energy and mining. We also talked about investment issues, how electricity is planning its investments. The social side expected information in particular on the so-called. clean coal technologies. We also talked about this with the social side. Today we are at such a stage that we will proceed first on proposals addressed to the Polish Development Fund within two groups: the JSW Group and the Polish Mining Group. We want them to end at the end of this year, in December, but they are related to the signing of contracts, thereby showing the business plan and the restructuring plan. We are not talking today about how to organise bets, but it is fair to say that we have also provided information in these discussions with the social side that electricity is reducing demand by 7 million tons of coal next year. Therefore, we need to match coal production to this, while showing all the solutions that the state is able to guarantee in this situation and for those who want to continue working in mining and for those who will leave the mining industry. And which mines are you going to take out? Today no employee of the Polish Mining Group or any other coal company will be left without the support of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please refer to climate policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u55	This is interesting information from the Minister, especially interesting employees of these companies, who, from today, I understand, can sleep peacefully, Minister, because this is the guarantee you gave. See you tomorrow. It's okay. We can do this. Thank you on behalf of these employees. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You know, Minister, don't get upset with me, 'cause I can answer you like that, it's gonna hurt so much that there's gonna be a problem. But I'm not gonna do it because I'm on vacation and I'm incredibly gracious. Mr. Marshal has a culture. Let's move on to question seven. Members Andrzej Gawron and Jerzy Paul of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the new toll collection system for motorways. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska. I cordially invite Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u56	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I wanted to focus on this new system because, as we know, the National Tax Administration will now be responsible for charging tolls on motorways and other toll roads. For people travelling by car, it is really essential for transport-related entrepreneurs that this toll collection is carried out smoothly so that there is no traffic jams. Besides, it's not just saving time, it's also saving our environment. This is also a positive environmental effect if we pass through the collection points efficiently. Everyone expects a modern, efficient, efficient toll collection system that will not generate costs because the previous one is generating costs. I would like information about the main assumptions of the system. Will an operator be appointed as part of the KAS, or will the operator be next to this system? When are we going to be able to practically see how this system works? What are the deadlines for implementing it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u57	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. Tell us whether it bothers you, too, that during the session of the Sejm there is simply a broadcast on the first floor and we are all listening to what the representatives of our nation are wise to talk about in front of the cameras. No, you can't hear it. I have a favor to ask you to call someone, because I'd like to draw attention to that. I personally do not like this and I do not think that this is a serious treatment of Members and Members of the PiS, Platforms and all other clubs. It doesn't bother me. Members are more intruding. But you know, I just hear it here. You know, there are people who can, they have the ability to hear one thing and not to hear another. I don't have the skills, so I hear both. You gotta focus on work. Thank you, Commissioner, for this advice, and I therefore ask the Minister to focus on her work. Please respond. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u58	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, the National Tax Administration has recently taken over the task of providing a new system for the collection of electronic fees of KAS, both for heavy vehicles, i.e. road transport, carriers - in this case we plan to deliver this system a little earlier, in the first quarter 2021. - as well as for passenger cars, light cars, light vehicles - in the case of motorways on sections A2, A4, toll motorways, we plan to introduce solutions that will not limit traffic capacity, which will eliminate the current manual toll system solutions based on gate systems, barriers. This will be a free flow pass, which means free passage through free lanes. There is a slightly longer prospect of launching this system, as this will only take place on 1 December 2021, as by that date contracts with operators currently responsible for handling the gateways on these motorway sections expire. However, when the heavy-duty vehicle system is launched, it will be available on these sections of roads and motorways free lanes and will be able to use new system solutions also for light-duty drivers who would otherwise like to pay a toll for this journey in a new way. Currently, the fee is paid in a manual toll collection system, it is possible to charge in cash, by card, by fleet card, also through the currently functioning electronic toll collection system. This system is currently based on Gateway, Control, Grounded and Radio technology, while new solutions will already be based on satellite positioning technology, will be based on wireless data transmission. This gives much more opportunities for modern solutions. The toll for the motorway will be able to be paid in the form of an electronic highway ticket. This ticket will be assigned to the vehicle, linked to the vehicle that uses the road, will be valid at a certain time, for the toll section of the motorway determined by the person buying the ticket, will be valid for 48 hours, will be a single ticket. It may be returned before the journey begins if such a journey is not to take place. On the other hand, when someone wants to travel even longer with a toll section, but the ticket of this section does not cover, it will be possible to buy such a ticket: in a mobile application, as I am about to say, in a parking lot, at the ILO or at a gas station. When it comes to the purchase of a motorway ticket, it will be possible to purchase it in modern distribution channels, i.e. on the Internet site, in self-service terminals, through a mobile application, which will be provided free of charge by the Ministry of Finance, the National Tax Administration. But there will also be another possibility, there will be an API service and external companies, external partners will also be able to offer such a service of buying a motorway ticket. The purchase of such a ticket will also be possible at the petrol station I mentioned, in parking lots, in kiosks, which will be convenient for people who do not enjoy digital solutions or do not want to use GPS technology. Because there is no obligation for solutions based on the possession of GPS devices to be used by light vehicles. The second option of obtaining, paying tolls for motorway tolls is the transfer of geolocation data to the KAS Electronic Charge Collection System. So these are the GPS solutions. Such solutions will be available as for heavy-duty drivers. First of all, I am thinking about the most popular, just a free mobile application, which you will be able to use to monitor this journey and make a fee. As I said, 1 December 2021. This is the moment when fully this solution will be available on these two sections of A2 and A4. As far as A2 is concerned, this is the Konin - Stryków section, as far as A4 is concerned, the Bielany Wrocławskie - Sośnica section. As you mentioned, the benefits of this system are time, above all drivers' time associated with the use of the motorway. There are obvious environmental benefits, but there are also savings in public finances. At the moment, we are conducting thorough calculations, analyses, but it can already be said that, for example, the costs of maintaining this manual toll collection system, related to the maintenance of parking spaces, gates, barriers - these costs will not be borne. There will be no separate operator of this system. The system provides the National Tax Administration based on the experience we have, for example, with the already functioning system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road, the SENT system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u59	Thank you very much. As if the Minister could stay here, because you'll probably be back in a minute... In the meantime, we will ask for an additional question from Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a brief question: what will be the cost of changing this system, moving to a new system? And how do you estimate the cost of changing this system at what time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u61	Short question, short answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u62	As far as cost is concerned, here we deliver, we build this solution on an ongoing basis. I will have to supplement this information in writing, because it is not, this cost, as if closed, defined at the moment. But I will give that information to the Member. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u63	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Members. Let's move on to question eight. Mr Marek Rząsa of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about the implementation of the National Programme against Domestic Violence and other measures to support victims of violence. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Iwona Michalek, will answer this question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Every person, every family has an inalienable right to feel safe, and the state has a duty to ensure that they are safe, and to guarantee any assistance in this regard. Specialized support centres for victims of domestic violence play an extremely important role in such a system. Interestingly, Minister, they have been operating since 2006, that is, since the year in which Law and Justice ruled, which means that even then you knew that such centres were needed. Following the end of the National Family Violence Prevention Programme for 2014 and 2020 under which these centres are financed, in June this year. We have addressed the Minister with an interpellation on the continuation of this programme. Today we are forced to ask questions again, because the answers to the interpellations were enigmatic and incomplete in content, while abundant in form, with a number of appeals to regulations or loose declarations without coverage. We also have the impression that the current rulers do not have enough determination to continue this programme. Yet the problem of violence in the family has not disappeared overnight, although this is what some of your government colleagues describe. Bearing in mind the social burden of the problem and the fact that the ongoing uncertainty may disturb those benefiting from the assistance of these centres such an important sense of relative stability of the support received, as well as uncertainty and consequently the outflow of highly qualified specialists, educators, therapists, social workers and psychologists, I ask the Minister for concrete, but really concrete, without unnecessary descriptions or references of the provisions of the law, short answers to simple questions. What are the further fates of the National Family Violence Prevention Programme? What are the government's plans for 36 specialist support centres for family violence victims operating in every voivodship in the country? At the end of this year, what are the above-mentioned highly qualified specialists employed in these centres for several or several years to expect? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u65	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u66	Dear Marshal, Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, there is an end to the national anti-violence programme in the family. He was formulated for certain years, just this year his edition ends. And what I want to say is that over the four years, six years, I'm sorry, 2014.2020, for which this program was written, the main goal was, of course, to increase the effectiveness of anti-violence in the family. That was the goal. We have acted and continue to operate in four main areas, i.e. prevention and social education, protection and assistance to those affected by violence in the family, improving the competences of services and representatives of actors engaged in anti-violence measures and, of course, the impact on those who use violence in the family. Specific objectives have been set in this respect, which have also been implemented in detail. He asked about specific things, namely that there were support centres for victims of violence in the family. They actually function, there are 37 of them at the moment. For 12 months of operation of each of these centres We've spent 15,540,000. zł. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We are currently working on a new program. Guidelines for this new programme, various provisions are proposed by the monitoring team, which has been operational since the start of the programme. The monitoring team meets regularly. At the moment, we are at a final stage, and by the end of September my department will present the concrete provisions of the new programme to the Minister. They're actually finishing up. Of course, the monitoring team worked constantly, all the time and some conclusions were drawn from the operation of this programme. The records will be detailed in the new program. About the program itself, about the new program we're going to talk about after we introduce it. Then, of course, we can talk about it. I would like to say that it was very important and that, at the Ministry, all measures to combat violence in the family, especially now, during the pandemic, should be intensified, and that everything that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has done is intended to do just that. We work very closely with various institutions, e.g. with the Police Headquarters. Here, these actions are very strong. We have launched a number of joint programmes, actions, gathering information, exchanging this information. Right now, I wanted to tell you that we've been collecting statistics on how this happened and what's happening at the time of the pandemic. It is well known that there have been such signals that the level of violence in the family is increasing, while with regard to the data collected, they show that 80%... We collected this information through all voivodship offices in Poland. In fact, we've been seeing each other every day before, and now we're meeting every week with the social services directors of the voivodship offices, and we're gathering this information on an ongoing basis. Turns out 80% Social assistance centres in Poland have not seen an increase in the number of cases of violence compared to the level before the epidemic, and the remaining 20% said growth, small but growth. Number of Blue Card procedures initiated e.g. from March to May increased by 14 781. Compared with data from the same period of the previous year, we have even a small decrease. The specialized family centers you mentioned did not notice the increase in the number of people who have been subjected to violence in the family requesting support. 28 centres (The Bell) did not notice, 8 saw a small increase. Of course, sir, we are investigating, monitoring, working on a new programme that we will be presenting to you soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u67	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Nowack. You're welcome. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You'll be fine, both of you. We'll be fine. We'll fit in. Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u68	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Here's the trouble. I understand that the centers did not notice growth, but we ask completely different questions. We are not asking, Minister, about the history of the framework programme, we are asking about the future. Three months left, Minister. Today, people who work in these centres must have a clear signal of what kind of money it will be. And the other thing. I understand they may not have noticed. Non-governmental organisations have completely different information, which regularly report increases in domestic violence, increases in violence against women. My question is, Minister, do you contact them? Of course. That's once. Two. The government has repeatedly heard disturbing signals about the Istanbul Convention and the plan to denounce the Istanbul Convention, as reported by prominent law and justice politicians. Of course, such communications have an impact on the perception of domestic violence and concerns, including women, whether they will be safe. I would very much ask the Minister for a clear declaration of what your office (the bell) will do to ensure that women, most often victims of domestic violence, safety and the feeling that the Polish state will stand behind them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u70	Thank you, Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course. Thank you, Member. Of course, we are working, as I said, on a new programme. In accordance with the procedure, we must present him by the end of September and present him. These centres you are talking about know very well that the programme will be financed to no less than it has been so far. As regards who we are consulting - we consult with NGOs on an ongoing basis, I personally, at video conferences on a regular basis, me and the Minister for Disabled Persons, Mr Paweł Wdzik, are in contact. Ask the organization, ask them what it's like. We're doing it all the time. So I can say that we're definitely monitoring the case, and we're really looking forward to it being done well. On the other hand, as regards the Istanbul Convention, there is only one thing I must say to you: there are no cases in my ministry, no work relating to the termination of this Convention. What's your position? I said that no work is being done, Madam Member. Just like you asked, I answer the question. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u71	The Minister did it in an incredibly intelligent way, I'll be honest with you. Thank you. You answered the question, and actually everyone's happy. I'm glad... Thank you, ma'am. Not all of them. Not all of us, not all of us, but at least, Madame, Madame, in part. At least we know there's no work going on. There was joy on the government's side. All right. Let's move on to question nine. Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the tourist voucher, and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Development will answer this question by Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A new form of support for Polish families and at the same time for the economy at the time of its weakening, which is currently connected with the pandemic, is a 500 PLN tourist voucher for each child and 1000 PLN for children with a disability ruling. The voucher is not taxed, covers hotel services and events carried out by a tourist trader or a public benefit organisation in the country. Importantly, the Polish Tourist Bonus has the form of an electronic voucher, valid until the end of March 2022. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister: Do you, in connection with this action, have planned actions documenting the impact of the travel voucher on decisions about the possibility of family leave on holidays, as well as documenting the financial status of tourist companies before and after the introduction of the voucher? Such an analysis is very necessary because we know that the tourist resort is currently facing various problems, as are other branches, but tourism is precisely the area where a really broader look is needed. Tourism also causes some development of gastronomy and other services such as... I would ask you very much, Minister, for an answer, and then I will ask you a second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u73	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! In fact, the Polish Tourist Bonus had a twofold task. On the social side, on the demand side, it was directed to Polish families, so that all children entitled to the benefit of 500+, but also children with disabilities, but also children with so-called. the system of coordination of international benefits may have received this benefit. On the supply side, however, it was aimed at the wider tourism industry. The hotels, i.e. all accommodation facilities, ranging from hotels, guesthouses, to agrotourism, also organizers of tourism, which can package tourist events. So, in short, the tourist event is that it is an accommodation service, as well as services accompanying tourist services, i.e. pilots, ski stations, aquaparks, etc., but also public benefit organisations. In summary, the tourism industry could benefit from a very important social programme. What is also important, the Polish Tourist Bon was to motivate Polish families to go home. Of course, these funds in the amount of 500 PLN can be a start to the fact that Polish families probably spend more money on tourist trips. So you can say that this effect of multiplying the value of tourist events is much greater. This is not only the 3.5 billion, which represent the value of the entire tourist voucher project, but also other measures that families will probably spend on holiday. The need to determine the impact of the Polish Tourist Bonus on decisions of Polish families in terms of holiday trips or the impact of the voucher on the financial condition of tourist companies was directly enshrined in the content of the Act on the Polish Tourist Bon. According to the article. By 31 August 2021 and 31 August 2022, the Minister responsible for Tourism shall provide the Sejm with information on the implementation of the Act and on the assessment of the effectiveness and economic effects of the voucher. The basis for the submission of information will be an ongoing analysis, among others. the degree of use of the voucher by the beneficiaries, the number of traders receiving for the travel events provided or the hotel service payment bonem. It should be pointed out that we follow progress in this area every day, because with such frequency we receive reports from the ZUS on the processing of Polish tourist vouchers. We learn from the reports, among others. of the current number of registered entrepreneurs, the daily increase of these registrations, the number of vouchers generated and used, or the number of additional benefits for disabled children applied for. Allow me to quote the data from yesterday that we received from the Social Insurance Institution. The number of vouchers awarded is 953 thousand, the value of the vouchers awarded is the amount of PLN 816 million, i.e. almost a billion - let me remind you, the value of the entire project is over PLN 3.5 billion - the average value of the voucher issued is PLN 856. Next, the number of registered payments - 272 thousand, the value of the payments made - 195 million PLN, i.e. almost 200 million PLN already arrived directly from the tourist voucher project to the tourist market. The average value of the voucher is PLN 717. What's important is 17,3 thousand. Tourist entities were registered in the database of the Polish Tourist Organization. Recall: The Polish Tourist Organization has the power to draw up and publish a list of entities in which we are entitled to carry out these vouchers. The Polish Tourism Organization also has the power to verify the provision of these services. The submission of any complaints, any comments, as well as the correction of the list of entities entitled to carry out vouchers shall be carried out through the portal of the Polish Tourist Organization. If we were to raise the aspect of the impact of the Polish Tourist Bon in support of such a heavily affected tourist industry pandemic, of course beyond this amount of PLN 3.5 billion, we would have to emphasize the increase of interest in rest in Poland and its promotion. From some data from the Ministry of Development, but also from media reports we know that in mid-August many tourist facilities, asked how Polish Tourist Bon influences the development of tourism, answered directly that many Polish families planned their trip to August, waiting for Polish Tourist Bon. This is a tangible proof that Polish Tourist Bon significantly influenced the stimulation of national tourism and thus the support of the Polish tourism industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u75	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Dziuk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the quite comprehensive information. We know that this program is very much needed by the tourism industry. At meetings, when entrepreneurs pay attention to this aid, which was a very hit undertaking, they stress some concerns about whether this capacity is being monitored on an ongoing basis, whether there are any congestions resulting, say, from the form of electronic information flow. That's one thing. My second question concerns the amount of aid and how many children are covered by it. This is about general discernment, also because we have many children with disabilities. What does it look like here, what are the proportions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Could the Minister give you information? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u77	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The information provided by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy at the stage of drafting the Polish Tourist Bone Act shows that a group of children with a disability decision has 300,000. persons. The report shows that by 15 September this year. 51,764 applications for additional benefit in the form of a disability child voucher were registered. This element of additional support for children with disabilities in double amount of the tourist voucher was a very important element to strengthen the social and image aspect of the entire project. Of course, we hope that the Polish Tourist voucher will be permanently inscribed in the landscape of Polish social policy and the Polish economy, the tourism economy - let us remind you that at this moment the Tourist voucher is valid until March 2022 - thanks to its very important social value, including for children with disabilities. Already during the performance of the voucher there were questions from parents of disabled children, whether this bonus can also be paid for rehabilitation tournaments. Of course, such an interpretation was issued by the Ministry of Development or the Polish Tourism Organization. If the organiser of the tourism packages the accommodation service and rehabilitation service, it is definitely a possibility. It was very good information for all children, for families of children with disabilities - in their difficult situation a voucher can contribute to measurable financial support. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to question 10. Andrzej Gawron, Agnieszka Górska and Anna Maria Siarkowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the government's housing development programme. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Robert Nowicki. I invite Mr Andrzej Gawron to ask the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! With regard to housing in Poland, unfortunately we still have a shortage. As statistics show, up to 50% young people still live with their parents. Of course, this situation needs to be corrected. There were different ideas. These ideas operate within the scope of BGK Real Estate, Polish Wooden Houses. These houses were supposed to be built. A very important element of this system is the National Property Resource. And indeed, this law, which was adopted quite a long time ago in the Seym, offers the possibility that this National Property Resources will stimulate the construction of the apartments. Recently a contract was signed in Rzeszów, on the basis of which 850 new apartments will be created in cooperation with the local government with the National Property Resources. I would ask you to describe whether this housing construction system by the National Property Resources in the whole of this program, housing+ is going to be the main system. I think that's the way it should be. In cooperation with local governments, you can actually make cheap apartments, cheap rentals with an investigation into property. And I'm also asking for such a holistic presentation of the actions that will influence this number of apartments to be more and more to meet the needs that are at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u81	Thank you very much. Is there gonna be a second part of the question? Additional question. Extra. Okay, cool. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u82	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for that question. Today is the day when we can say that housing and development of housing are entering new roads. Indeed, an analysis of the facts and legal situation has led us to conclusions in the Ministry of Development that this main driving force, this force, where different indicators show that housing is a satisfactory state, is a strong social construction. We look at countries like Denmark, France, Austria. There's a 15% percentage of apartments. .20%. the entire resource. In the '60s. Sweden has launched a programme of 1 million apartments. These were rental apartments with an option to access the property. It's improved the so-called. housing deprivation rate by nearly 7 percentage points. At the moment Poland must face the main challenge, which is actually the number of apartments, because on average there are about 1 million apartments missing according to various statistics. If we take substandard premises, this number could go up to 2 million. This model, which Mr Rzeszow mentioned, is the model that we want to adopt as the main model that gives the lever to increase the number of housing investments. Surely what is to be said is a close cooperation between the government and the local government. We are looking at models of Western countries or countries where this rate of deprivation is much lower, where there is close cooperation with the government, which has in its tasks to give instruments. That's why today is this bill that we'll have first reading in the afternoon to deliver these tools. The National Property Resource is not to be just a land bank, but it is to be the entity that enters into cooperation with local governments with capital, with know-how, with its real estate resources. The wider opening of the KZN itself to cooperation with local governments is basic, as I said, the purpose of this law. The intention of the project is to give KZN more opportunities to join such special purpose companies and to create such special purpose companies on the basis of a social housing initiative, because that is what this formula will be called. The investments carried out in the last formula, i.e. in this SIM formula, will have access to very attractive forms of financing. If we are talking about the whole spectrum of housing policy, starting with the poorest, municipal housing, the funding of local governments will be at the level of 50%. As far as issues relating to social construction are concerned, this will be 45%. This is really a change that will allow local governments to provide capital. As far as statistics that might be of interest to the High House are concerned, it is primarily about the potential of the National Property Resource, which amounts to 90,000. apartments. And that is why these changes are so that we can build and implement these investments together with local governments in the legal formula. At this moment, as is apparent from yesterday's National Property Resource statistics, 77 contracts are being conducted for which this is to be concluded with the signing of cooperation in the field of construction. What does that mean? This means either joining an existing company, because often municipalities, such more informed municipalities, have such companies, or set up in cooperation with the municipality of such a company. Why the communes? Because in the policy and on the principles that apply in the European Union, this grant can be given to meet the housing needs of local governments. This is the policy pursued by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. I mention the European Investment Bank before the High House, because we are talking about this funding to be provided. In terms of the estimated number of apartments, it can be said that the contracts for which an investment entity is to be created are about 17 000. apartments. I must say that this has been successful in a relatively short time, in about a few months, and given the COVID pandemic, it is certainly the success of the National Property Resources. Of course, we are already talking to more than 200 local governments and we are not looking at political options here, High Izbo, because for all of us, the most important political option is that we can make these housing investments. For this purpose, the COVID fund of 1.5 billion will be created in the proposed law in order to be able to deliver this capital. In conclusion, National Resources Real estate is the body that is to be leading, it is the entity that is to carry out a comprehensive National Housing Programme, adopted in 2016, which looks forward, which looks horizontally, both at the poorest and at the middle class, but also gives instruments so that we can say that this number of apartments will increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Agnieszka Górska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The assumptions of the government's housing development plan are to exploit the potential of the National Property Resources for the social development of rental buildings, as the Minister has already said. You also said that KZN would be able to create social housing associations and join existing ones. My first question - details and rules. I understand that this is a very specific question. If the Minister is not able to answer them today, I would ask for a written reply, because I am simply interested in concrete ones, because the regulations so far did not provide for such forms of KZN's actions. KZN will also be able to bring land to these social housing associations. What is the current KZN resource for housing? Will KZN acquire new land? From what sources? What are the rules? Whether the land will be extracted from resources e.g. State Forests, and in what (Bingle) size? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u85	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as form is concerned, the present law does not really provide for any possibility of entering, whether for capital, whether in the form of a share, a landport. Our amendment provides for the possibility of joining an existing TBS company under the terms of the Act: either in the form of capital - that the social development fund of the housing initiative will be set up in KZN to support existing companies - or by bringing the land which is in stock. I'll get to the other question. The current land resource is over 120 locations at about 900 ha. That's potential, like I said, for 90,000. apartments. It's still a review. From agencies that have permanently on the board of the Treasury... As far as the State Forests are concerned, in agreement with the Minister of the Environment, a provision has been drawn up that the land which is intended in the local plans, in the cities under housing, will be transferred to the National Property Resources. There's an additional control mechanism for the Minister of the Environment here too, and he can object. On the other hand, looking at the ownership structure of the State Treasury as the Minister for Construction is also responsible for real estate management policy, we can see that we have enough land at this moment to say that this programme will continue successfully in the following years - apart from those of 90 000. The apartments we already own. I would also like to say that in the bill that will be proceded today, there is no record that has blocked investments that have not so far allowed the National Property Resources to... Two records, actually. The first one, which was mentioned by Mrs KZN, was that KZN could not join or create such companies, and the second one was that in the case of real estate trading and real estate trading, it was necessary to finance, especially in situations difficult for the budget, in order to use the assets of the State Treasury, the National Property Resources had to return 90%. to the previous permanent manager. It was just uneconomical, not purposeful in housing policy. That was one of the reasons that was blocking her. Looking at the after-investment costs - these 10% often it was not enough for the costs of carrying out the transaction, not to mention that this money should be invested in social housing, in cheap apartments for rent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u87	Thank you very much. Question 11 will be asked by Barbara Bartus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and will concern the issue of support for local government units as part of the funding from the Government Local Investment Fund. This question will be asked by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Minister Robert Nowicki, who has already been brilliantly able to deal with the questions twice. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u88	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that this time the Minister will also respond brilliantly, because we are talking about an important topic, about the Government Local Investment Fund. This is a very important topic for local authorities, because local authorities are responsible for what is closest to the inhabitants: infrastructure, schools, roads, sewerage. That's what self-governments do every day. It is true that they are involved in tax revenues, including personal income tax, e.g. Local government - 38%, but the money is still low. Therefore, it is with great joy that local governments accept all government initiatives that support their actions. After such development of the Self-Government Road Fund, another fund, which was accepted with great joy for understandable reasons, is the Government Local Investment Fund. These are the money for the tasks which the municipalities perform and which serve the inhabitants most. I won't say it again, but it's all about schools and roads. These are investments that can be made out of funds from this fund. It was with great joy that the local authorities were satisfied that the money had been transferred immediately to the municipalities after the application had been submitted. We are talking about big money, because from this fund individual individuals can receive from PLN 0.5 million to PLN 93 million. The municipality that got the most in my district got over PLN 5 million. More than PLN 4 million received the district of Gorlicki, over 6 million - the district of Nowy Sądecki. This job is over. The money's already in the accounts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the Minister. Did all municipalities benefit from the fund during the first recruitment? Have they applied? Did they get the money? Please say something about the second call as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u89	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister. You've got about six minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we are talking about joy, it is with great joy that I must announce that in the first recruitment 100% Local authorities applied for 100% amounts, i.e. applied for funds from a total of PLN 6 billion. Indeed, the Government Local Investment Fund was and is a tool created together with local governments. Many times in the Ministry of Development or in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers meetings took place - sometimes they were difficult meetings, but substantive - with local governments. We are aware that the issues of government finances... The extent of their depletion by the COVID-19 pandemic is significant. According to recent data from the Ministry of Finance in mid-August, local governments have an operating surplus on a macro scale, which is, of course, a situation likely to arouse moderate optimism. As for the second part of the question, I would like to say that the call runs until September 30th. Applications will be considered within one month. Once the applications have been processed, they will be sent to local government units immediately. After 30 September, the proposals will be sent to the Commission for the Support of Territorial Units. It is a body that makes recommendations to the President of the Council of Ministers. It consists of representatives of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy, ministries responsible for the flow of money and ministries responsible for economic development and regional development. The proposals will be assessed on the basis of objective criteria listed in Resolution 102 of the Council of Ministers of July this year. What are the criteria? It concerns the implementation of the principle of sustainable development, the complexity of planned investments, the reduction of emissions and the level of interference of planned investments in the environment, the cost of planned investments in relation to the planned revenues of the entity in the year of the start of the investment, the number of persons affected by the planned investments, the relationship of the cost of the planned investments to the expected effect, the impact of planned investments on the reduction or prevention of the effects of natural disasters in the future, if the planned investments can have such an impact, the availability within the meaning of the Accessibility Act to persons with special needs. The Local Investment Fund can also finance tasks that were not included in the budget. There are two rules under the resolution. Support may be allocated to property expenditure and may not be a refinancing instrument. The Commission appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers accepts the proposals, as I said, by 30 September. These may be proposals for investments, investment tasks of different types: daycare, kindergartens, roads, water and sewage systems, elements to improve the energy system. They can also be shared tasks, such as cooperation with higher education institutions. I think this instrument is very much needed. We are aware that 12 billion PLN, which will be invested in local governments in total, will be the leverage for investments for more than 70 billion PLN, which the local authorities planned in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u91	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased to mention the water and sewage system task. This was not previously said directly and among others. the commune of Łużna lying in my territory, where not only there are no waterworks, but there is almost no sewage system, prepares such a proposal and was afraid because it was not mentioned. There were schools and other tasks, and this is the most necessary for residents. I'm glad the Minister's mentioned it. That means that this motion can be dealt with. I wanted to ask you why it can't be a refund. Is it possible for municipalities to submit applications for their own participation in the tasks that are already being carried out? It goes on for example. about tasks that are financed from other sources. That's my first question. Second question. In one of the municipalities, I encountered a problem. Your uncle said he couldn't file a second call because he hadn't yet consummated the money from the first call. I don't think it should be that you have to spend the money from the first job so you can apply for the money from the second. After all, these measures have only been received recently, and the second recruitment is already ongoing. I'd appreciate it if you'd be more specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u93	Do you think so, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u94	Mr. Marshal, I'd be delighted. High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the first question is concerned, by refinancing, we mean this situation when we have the funds for the investments in question. If this is the missing own contribution, e.g. in other government programmes, if the local government lacks a certain amount to invest, for financial assembly, it is possible to apply for funding from the Government Local Investment Fund. On the other hand, as regards the second question, I strongly protest that there is a correlation between expenditure and investment or the first stage of spending. These are two independent mechanisms aimed primarily at investment. As we know, the investment is ongoing. We assume that these are investments that last several years. We're not imposing any restrictions here. Such applications may be submitted by 30 September through voivodships in the second stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u95	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the next point, this will be item 18: Current information... Your Marshal sent the following proposal: The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, - amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernizations and renovations and certain other laws. Those reports shall, respectively, be in prints Nos 622 and 593. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. I have two informations for you. Good or bad? One bad one and one good one. The bad news is, I'm going to say goodbye to you, and I'm not going to continue. At all or just today? The tears are spinning because I'm happy to work with you. But she's good. The session will be conducted by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, whom I cordially welcome and invite you to the chair in which I visited. Any applause? Something? No. I still have to work on myself. [[Applause]] Thank you for the beautiful conduct of this part of the session. The important thing is, there's no whistles. Well, that's true. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the state of health protection during the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions taken by the government in relation to the second wave of Cortipinus in Poland, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens, will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. A representative of the applicant may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Mr Rajmund Miller, the representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We meet today just to get information from the government about the preparation of the government and the Ministry of Health against the predicted second wave of the COVID epidemic. We have a critical opinion. on the actions and preparation of the government in the first period. To assess that, I'm gonna have to go back to history. In December, the outbreak of COVID began in China. On 9 January 2020, Prime Minister Morawiecki said during his speech that there was a threat to this virus in Poland, as confirmed by the Minister of Health. On 12 February, at a meeting on information on the preparation of the Ministry of Health and the Government for the outbreak of Coronavirus, the Health Commission received a reply that the government and the Ministry were excellently prepared. Of course, we were not answered about enough masks, personal protective equipment, etc., but we heard - in the media - so that we would not panic so that we would put ice in our panties. Ladies and gentlemen, suddenly, on 2 March, at the request of the President, a meeting of the Sejm was held on the threat and preparation of the COVID-19 and the Health Committee, in which, as usual, PiS had already made the world championship here, in the morning we decided on the first act of COVID-19, which we received at hours. 22.30 - multi-page, legally difficult to evaluate and without legal advice. Ladies and gentlemen, during the course of the COVID, the obvious issue was the lack of personal protective equipment, masks, gloves, disinfectants and special suits for medical personnel. It's only thanks to the really great attitude of health professionals, nurses, doctors, paramedics and overcharged health professionals... Also here, it was not foreseen that the health department was given responsibility for doing tests without financial support, personal support, which resulted in people not being able to call, and they could not ask for tests that were not available. On the other hand, on 3 March in Poland there were only two laboratories in Warsaw that carried out tests for the presence of COVID-19. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please don't disturb me, because time is running out. Ladies and gentlemen, there were only two labs and about 500 tests were carried out at that time - about 500 tests. The Prime Minister assured that the country was prepared for a pandemic, boasting that he was helping Poles to return from abroad, that there were controls at borders that were fictional, because many people who were going to Italy and other countries at the time and returning, were not controlled at all, were not informed at all. The Poles who were flying to Warsaw only filled out the survey. Well? They were on their way home. Those who were infected were infecting other family members because they weren't prepared for quarantine at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, a huge mistake has been made. As a result of the disregard of COVID-19 - what I said: ice in panties - a huge mistake was made because instead of mass testing Poles, separating the patients from healthy and healthy allow work, panic has frozen the entire economy, which we are feeling today and we will be feeling for a long time. It is the loss of thousands of jobs for many Poles, it is the closure of many workplaces for entrepreneurs. Yes, programmes related to the COVD-19 pandemic were created, but, well, the PIS custom included articles that did not concern at all COVID-19, which is the best example of what we are going to be working on in a moment, i.e. the so-called. A scandal plus or impunity plus, as I call it. [[Applause]] The Act on COVID-19 contains provisions on the impunity of officials when crossing, breaking the law. Well, that's great. Great, we're so rich. We have no money and we have, ladies and gentlemen, a scandal, 70 million for masks, ventilators bought scandalously and recently, as it turns out, tests that had no right to enter the Polish market, tests that are unbelievable. Today the Ministry states: we do little tests because the results of these tests come out in a small percentage of positive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's because we do it with bad tests. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer talk about the mess and the embarrassment of banning forest regulations. However, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest scandal is that the government cynically used the COVID-19 epidemic in political matters. Well, June 22nd, ladies and gentlemen... Time, time. I'm almost done. You were bothering me. You've bothered me several times. But if you'll excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I think I'm calling the shots. Finish your work, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 June, Minister Szumowski stated that COVID-19 was dangerous, while on 2 July Prime Minister Morawiecki cynically, going to people, appearing on television, said that there was no more COVID that he was not to be feared and that it was necessary to go to elections massly. This is the attitude of the Polish government. The health and life of Poles are not respected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please don't be political, just substantive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u97	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to decide when someone is to be finished. [[Applause]] Rules of procedure... Yes, but the marshal has the right to allow it. I also allow government representatives to speak longer, as was possible yesterday. I'm really letting the line end, because I think it's about listening to each other here. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, before I move on to the issue of the Autumn Strategy against the Coronavirus in Poland, I will answer in two sentences to the Member. If the strategy adopted in spring were bad, we would have the same situation as it was in Italy, that is, thousands of people would go to hospitals a day, and more than 1,000 people would die a day. The doctors in Italy stood before a dilemma, whether to put a man on a ventilator or to refuse this medical procedure. So I think this strategy has worked. The Poles were protected and we did not have such a situation that the pitches and rinks were replaced with places where coffins could be placed with people who died of coronavirus. On the other hand, moving on to the autumn issue, because at the moment the strategy is different, because we have a different nature of the epidemic, I would like to say that in the autumn-winter period we will have to deal not only with the koravirus, but also with the increase in flu or other flu-like infections. That's why we wanted to, and we did it, in a quite flexible way to prepare for this period, given that we know more and more exactly the biology of the virus and we know how it behaves, we can perfectly predict its behaviour. As for the new strategy for autumn, we have changed several aspects of our prevention and action against the coronavirus. First of all, we've introduced organizational changes. These changes have three objectives: to increase efficiency and use of human resources, but also infrastructure resources, to increase testing capacity and to improve health inspection activities. As you remember, in the spring, 22 of these hospitals were a single name hospital in Poland. At the peak of the epidemic, the use of beds in these hospitals reached 25%. I will merely remind you that the establishment of one-name hospitals took place in March, just when thousands of people in Western Europe were suffering from coranavir every day. That's why we left the idea of single-name hospitals. At the moment, as far as hospital treatment is concerned, we have created three levels of protection. Level one, which is this level closest to the patient, is called. county hospitals, which are hospitals that are online. In these hospitals we have created a place to isolate a patient, a patient who goes to this hospital and is suspected of being infected with a coronavirus, waiting for a test result, and if his health is so severe that he must be helped, this assistance, especially with regard to the state of life and health, will be provided in this hospital. For today in Poland in these hospitals we have 2460 beds, beds, which are intended for the isolation of patients with the coronavirus and in these hospitals we do not treat these patients. The second level, i.e. the place where the patient will be treated after the infection with the coravirus, is infectious hospitals, hospitals with infectious wards, but also part of one-name hospitals, which will not be at that level of the third level - where we will mainly supply patients in an internal and infectious manner, but also with the possibility of providing intensive care. For today we have 2897 beds in level two in Poland. And last, third level, this is the level of multi-specialized hospitals. These are hospitals to which patients who already have coronavirus have been diagnosed, but require other assistance than in internist-infectious hospitals, i.e. those second level hospitals. So they're gonna be hospitals that have cardiac, neurological, surgical, midwifery or wards. requiring completely different specialised assistance, e.g. Vascular disorders At this point in the third degree hospitals, we have about a thousand. So that we have built and expanded the so-called network at the moment. mobile downloads, swabs, i.e. so-called. Drive-thru. For today in Poland we already have 353 such places. We want there to be a place in every county where we can get this result. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also want to extend - and this is already happening - from 2 hours to at least 4 hours of testing in these places. The next element we have introduced is the involvement of primary healthcare professionals. We all know that the patient in his first reflex, if he is ill, is going to the family doctor, which is why during this autumn-winter period, when these symptoms of infection are very much - the statistics say that daily he goes to the doctor of POZ in this autumn season he goes to 100,000. Up to 200,000. people - we also wanted the family doctor to be able to direct the patient to the test, and this possibility was obtained either by teleporading in case of confirmation of the four underlying symptoms that indicate coronavirus infection, or by personal examination of the patient in the family doctor's clinic. This will also make it easier for patients to reach POZ because the teleport itself, as statistics show, is insufficient. Not all diseases can be diagnosed by teleporadio or given advice to patients, so we want patients to be able and have this chance to come to the family doctor personally. The last aspect is the improvement of health inspection activities. We know that the health inspection has been underfunded for many years, and that is why we are increasing the scope of IT for health inspection at the moment. We are already at the end of the talks with the big helpline that will handle it, and everyone who calls there will no longer be served by health care workers, only by an outside company, and this will relieve health care workers from the current activity they are currently running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u99	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Anyone else want to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's very good that this proposal was put up by one of the opposition clubs and that we are going to talk about a possible second wave of pandemics, of course I hope that this will be a calm, substantive discussion, on arguments, although the temptation is probably strong for this political element to appear here. And I would like to begin by thanking health care professionals, doctors, nurses, laboratory diagnostics, health inspection staff, paramedics, pharmacists, all health care professionals who really did work at a time when we were mostly locked up at home and were in more or less isolation. The fact that it was possible to lead to a situation such as that there was no Spanish, Italian scenario in Poland, there were not only mass diseases, but above all deaths, it is actually the result of two elements - on the one hand, the early operation of the Ministry of Health, that the state from the very beginning, before even one case of Coronavirus occurred in Poland, you were preparing for this pandemic and taking the right, optimal action, as you can see today, in a situation where no one had experience, did not know which way would be the best, and on the other hand it was really great actions of health workers. I would like to ask you, Minister, about these plans for autumn, because we know that there is a group of particularly vulnerable people: pensioners, immunocompromised people, people with a number of diseases that reduce immunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What strategy do you plan for these people for the coming months? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u101	Thank you, sir. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u102	First of all, I would like to tell the Minister that a lie often repeated does not become true. I know that you like to refer to the example of countries such as Italy and Spain, because on this background In fact, the whole Eastern Europe looks particularly positive. We are aware that there are already studies that say quite clearly that in all those countries where there were mandatory tuberculosis vaccinations, this situation is much better. It's not thanks to you, it's due to a little better resistance of Poles than e.g. Italians or Spaniards. On the other hand, on the subject of our debate today, I wanted to say one thing. The time of isolation, the time of remote education in schools is a particularly difficult time for young people. That's why I'd like to ask you about the state of psychiatry. We can read the NIK report on the state of psychiatry for a few days. Honestly, it's a frightening reading. We'll find out from it that about 9 and 10% the population of children has problems requiring psychological, psychiatric assistance - this is also similar to the European average - while we have voivodships in which there is not a single psychiatric bed, e.g. Voivodship Podlaskie. We have voivodships in which for 10,000. This is the case in the war. Lubuskie. We have a situation in which in Poland about 800 children from 7 to 18 years of age make suicide attempts within a year. 250 out of these trials from 2017 to 2019 ended, unfortunately, in death. That's why I wanted to ask you a question. What did the youth's access to psychiatric care look like during the lockdown during the pandemic, because I guess it's even worse? What are you going to do in the second phase of the pandemic so that young people's access to a psychiatrist is realistic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The period of euphoria in the fight against COVID, proclaimed by Prime Minister Morawiecki during the presidential campaign, is beyond us. We return to reality, which is the fact that you have to deal with this pandemic every day at all levels and take appropriate action. The Minister presented a new system of health care organisations in the fight against pandemics. I think it is important for citizens that information about this new way, the system is well communicated, and that information is very important. This is where the first link is supposed to be the POZ doctor. Today, the doctor of POZ functions largely only on the phone or through the window outside. There's no contact with the POZ doctor. That's what I'm worried about, if it's gonna pass the test. That's one thing. Secondly, this change may, however, allow for the normal functioning of health care institutions and the fight against these fundamental risks, such as other diseases, the fight against cancer or coronary artery disease. Today, scheduled operations are significantly postponed. The question is whether the other part of the health care service operating next to the COVID will already work properly. Isn't that a threat, it's about the deterioration of patients' health, not just because of COVID, but because of civilizational diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u106	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First thing. I'd like to ask you about the flu shots. How many of these vaccines did the government buy? How much did he order in reserve? How many drugstores have been delivered to today, how many drugstores have been released, and how many vaccines have been sold to patients? We all know that people can't get these vaccines, so I'd ask very much for precise information about that. The big case is the financial results of the hospitals for the second quarter of this year. I would like to ask the Ministry to present such data, broken down by voivodship, county and one-and-a-half resort. I would also like to ask the Ministry about evaluating applications for people who are in quarantine - I myself was a user of such an application, I have a lot of comments about it. I'd like to ask you about the evaluation of the Ministry of Health. And, of course, the question of statistics on queues to specialist clinics, hospital departments. If you have such data for this year, for the second quarter, I will be grateful for the information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bolesław Piech, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm is a political place and political disputes will therefore be very violent, but I would like to ask what our citizens should know, because they are the subject of government action and our legislative activity. Minister! The second stage is approaching in this strategy, perhaps slowing down this epidemic, but it is still going on. The most important thing is prevention. This prevention is prevention. I understand we have a mask today that we have a distance today and that we have disinfection or hand washing. On the other hand, when it comes to vaccinations, I have to talk about two types of prevention. There are two types of prevention, one is active prevention, the other is passive prevention. Maybe I will ask: Is there any rules for passive prevention in Poland at all, i.e. Immunoglobulin vaccination e. g. highly exposed people who have been in contact with patients with Coronavirus? Of course, if such prevention exists. I ignore treatment because I understand that in the case of treatment it is also conditioned by the availability of immunoglobulin from the healers. And the second question is the question of the vaccine. I'm not gonna ask you about a vaccine for Coronavirus because it's a future that doesn't really depend on us. This vaccine is made in laboratories. This is a huge number of clinical trials with regard to the authorisation of this vaccine, related to its safety and efficacy. I'm gonna ask you about the flu vaccine. We expect the demand for this vaccine to increase due to the pandemic. I understand that today we are at a level, at a preliminary stage, which is as usual, because seasonal vaccinations did not start until the second half of September and October. Therefore, the main problem with vaccination is expected to be in October. How many volunteers do you expect from the Minister who will be willing to buy the vaccine and immunize themselves, and are we prepared to do so, given the international situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because I think the market will suffer from a lack of supply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u109	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u110	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to join those heartfelt thanks to health professionals at all levels who have made so much efforts to help people during the first COVID wave. I regret, however, that the rulers did not find any additional resources, as the Civic Coalition requested, among other things, to thank and convey a certain gratification for this sacrificial work and exposure. I also wanted to refer to what Mr Miller was talking about when he presented the subject of today's debate. It's about the ice in his panties, because that's how he discredited the threat of the COVID wave, the chief health inspector Mr. Pinkas. So it is worth saying how at the end, how at first you behaved in the face of a pandemic. What do we think of this period of the first wave of pandemics? With no tests, no reports of buying masks and ventilators. And one more thing. Mr Latos praised things so much. Let me remind everyone that it is worth remembering that it is the Health Committee that President Latos has tabled the proposal and that the Law and Justice have supported it, on rejecting the proposal to carry out tests for all health workers so that they are safe. You didn't do that, and that's what we're gonna ask. And now about the money. Maybe there isn't much time, but I'd like to say this: the pandemic period has caused and causes huge problems in the financing of hospitals. It's about debt, non-contracting. In this respect, we expect you to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] information on how much extra money will be available and how the criteria for assessing hospitals and benefits will change. The point is, they just don't fail for your cause. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u111	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two weeks ago, a new school year began. Teachers, children, as well as parents went back to school. Schools are places where there may be potential sources of epidemics, local ones. And everyone's afraid of it, because of what's going on. Of course, today there is no vaccine against COVID and it doesn't seem that you can do much here. At least if you met the request of the Polish Teachers Association and conducted free tests on COVID, it would be to meet these expectations, the right expectations, but you do not want to do that either. At the moment, flu vaccines are mass-produced in the world. Pharmaceutical companies produce thousands, hundreds of thousands of these vaccines every day. 200,000 arrived in Poland, probably spread out in one day or two. And I wanted to know, what about these flu vaccines for teachers, for our children? When will they be available? What are the criteria for allocating this vaccine to the flu? Is it gonna be a draw, or is it gonna be a wheel of fortune, or is it gonna be a contest of knowledge, or is it gonna be a testimonial with a red stripe, or is it gonna be a win for a kid in some Olympics, or is it gonna be a good athletic performance? I don't know, a parish certificate? Your parents' party ID? What will determine who will be entitled to this flu vaccine and who will not? Because we know very well that, as with the tuberculosis vaccine, which reduced the incidence of COVID in Poland, the influenza vaccine will also save us from COVID. And Minister, the question is, how do you want to distribute these flu vaccines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u113	Thank you, sir. And please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u114	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday there was a long debate in this Chamber about a government draft law amending the Emergency Notification System Act, a project introducing good solutions as well. But I have a question and concerns about ensuring the security of our citizens, which is also guaranteed in the Constitution. I'm afraid you're not paying enough attention to the safety of the residents by proceeding with this bill. Since 1 January 2021, Mazowsze, the largest voivodeship in the country, is to be divided not so far into five, but into three operational areas. The Mazowiecka Voivode plans to liquidate two medical dispatchers in the operation area in the north of Mazovia. Well, the ambulances in Płock and the Strołęcki Meditrans are to be eliminated. For the inhabitants of northern Mazowsze this means that sending an ambulance will be decided by the dispatch office in Warsaw, Siedlce or Radom. Such solutions are opposed by councillors of the Mazowieckie Voivodship, even councillors of Law and Justice. Are such solutions suitable for the safety of our residents, for the safety of the inhabitants of the largest voivodship in our country, especially in the time of the outbreak of coronavirus? I ask that we bend over the solutions of this law one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u115	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We all remember perfectly well the first hours and days of the epidemic, then the pandemic of Coronavirus. Collective fear, uncertainty, fear, empty streets, prayer. Dramatic reports from abroad, from rich European countries: armagedon in Italy, lack of hospital facilities, are occupied halls, skylights, stadiums, apocalyptic information, lack of respirators, segregation of patients, who to save and who no longer, bad news from the UK, Spain, Belgium, etc. Meanwhile, in Poland, successful health care with heroic crew and heroic minister... Where is he? ...an efficient health inspection with dedicated workers, professional uniformed services, discipline and social solidarity. At the same time, anti-crisis shields, billions to save the national economy, save jobs and entrepreneurship effectively. Of course during urgent interventions, immediate corrections, ministry, government and voivodships in stand-by, vigil day and night. At first, the lack of testing is true. Currently in the whole country 185 laboratories, 363 so-called. drive-thru and symptomatic testing strategy and so-called a focal point. Poland passes through this period with a defensive hand. We have new challenges ahead, but the problem stays, it's still dangerous. Let the accounts of those who were hospitalized because of the COVID and survived, their dramatic descriptions and the fear of their families, be a terrible, I have heard, but I could not raise my hand, such weakness and such an infirmity. Or: so much, so much lacked air. Or: this omnipotent and indescribable fear, whether I will be connected to a ventilator and whether I will wake up. Let's remember that. And a question for the Minister. State Medical Rescue and Aviation Emergency Service very professionally, they did very well during this period. What's she like? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Autumn strategy? Will there be any reinforcements and novelties? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! After the layover I've heard about the government, a few spoons of the river. Medical Autorites in the World - I refer to an article in the July issue of The Lancet. - indicate that the damage caused by the delay in the diagnosis of cancer by two months - especially for people aged 60 years or older - is many times greater than the risk of COVID-19 infection. In Poland, because of the misorganization of health care, the chaos introduced, forcing hospitals to move into the so-called. acute condition, about 35% of the population was cancelled in the first half of 2020 scheduled oncology. Specialists get more advanced cases, people who have not been diagnosed or treated. I was talking about it yesterday at the Health Committee meeting. I said I knew it from an autopsy as an active oncologist, so I found out that I'm empathizing with the fact that I'm an oncologist. Similarly, a dramatic situation takes place in cardiology. Half the people with a heart attack report too late, except so-called. a therapeutic window, which is the moment when intervention of invasive cardiology can reverse the patient's fate. Due to the reduced access so far to doctors and hospitals, as well as the lack of coordinated health education, which I would particularly like to stress, which would reduce the fear of patients who are afraid of being infected after going to a doctor or hospital, the number of oncology patients will increase significantly in the second half of the year, because this number will not change - if they have not been treated in the first half, then they will be treated in the second half, or at least they will report - traffic jams will arise as on the road where too many cars are suddenly found. I personally don't want to hear that the situation is good and calm anymore. I'd rather hear from the Minister how the health department will help to deal with this problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with traffic jams and an increasing number of patients, including oncology. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly about the past. As the epidemic began, we were all in great fear, also our society. The fact that the epidemic has been relatively mild in us and is still going on is really due to two things: great discipline - I am talking about our residents who were sitting at home, following the rules - and yet the unique resistance of our population to infections, and in particular a relatively small number of deaths. In fact, the government's merit, apart from the great chaos that was then in government activity, was for a good cause only to freeze the economy - excessive, as it turns out, but then no one knew. What, on the other hand, is ahead of us? There's no flu vaccine. We've got 1.7 guaranteed. , maybe 1.8 million, is doubtful is 2 million. And they should be vaccinated first of all: medical personnel and not only medical personnel, because they are also auxiliary, many professional groups, the teachers mentioned, the uniformed services in the first place, because it is not only about securing them, but also about the possibility of functioning even with health care with as much staff as possible. Will the Minister distribute these vaccines only to these professional groups and to particularly vulnerable patients? Then we'll run out of vaccines for healthy people. As far as plans are concerned, there will be great tensions between primary health care and emergency rooms, hospitals, with these solutions, where major tasks are transferred to primary health care (the Bell) for which it is not prepared, for example the quarantine decision. Because you haven't strengthened the health department since the beginning of your term of office. The health department was doing everything he could... Thank you very much. ...more than your own ability. I'm almost done. At the moment, you've solved it so that you're putting health care on completely unprepared basic health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u121	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u122	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In March, when it was decided to set up one-name hospitals, when there was a huge social resistance to the fact that the Łomża subregion, the city of Łomża, was excluded from the operation of the only hospital in the city of sixty-two thousand and a sub-region of more than 100,000. When I conducted correspondence with the Ministry of Health, when we asked as self-government officials, as politicians, why such a decision was made, that it was not a hospital in Bialystok - we received information that there was no other possibility. Today, when there is a division into hospitals, including multi-specialized hospitals, Bialystok already appears. At this point, I have a question for the Minister where patients who have been deprived of the right to help quickly are to be treated - there are those who either feel the effects of the disease or, unfortunately, have left this world prematurely - through your political decision and the exclusion of the entire sub-region from primary medical care. A lot of people are still asking about this problem. There's no answer. Minister, I expect this answer: Where are these patients and families of these patients to go today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are debating how we are prepared as a country for the second wave of COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that what I hear here from this speaker is appalling, of course, what I hear from the opposition, because in what you say, there are many lies, many contradictions. The truth is that when the outbreak occurred in Poland, it actually appeared all over the world. You know very well that this is to this day something that all governments around the world are fighting against. We're not the only country that has to deal with this. I remember the beginning of the pandemic, how you praised this government, how you praised the decisions made - that the economy was frozen... Yes, yes, Doctor... No. ...absolutely so. ...that schools have been shut down... One... please... ...that there is, ladies and gentlemen, a lockdown introduced. The words of thanks to the Minister were coming out of your mouth. Of course, today you have forgotten about this and today the words of criticism, absolutely unfair words of criticism, are coming out of your mouth. The best proof of this is precisely what is the most important indicator, that is, mortality. The fact that in Poland due to COVID-19 the number of people who unfortunately died (The Bell) is one of the smallest in Europe, is a huge credit to medical staff. And I wanted to finish by asking you one thing - about the preparation of social services homes and cooperation with local governments, because in this area... because there were outbreaks of infection in the DPS... Finish it, Member. ...and it aroused a lot of anxiety. How we are now prepared for this new wave, how the welfare homes are prepared and how they are prepared... Member, please finish. ...self-governments? Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u125	Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Experts from the World Health Organization, Polish experts, experts from the COVID team at the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences, all speak with one voice: Test, test and test to isolate infected people before they begin to infect others. Meanwhile, we are, ladies and gentlemen, one of the worst performing statistics in the countries of Europe that are testing for 1 million inhabitants. Spain carries out 230 thousand of them. out of 1 million inhabitants, France - 150, Germany - 160, Italy - 165, Portugal - 220, Poland only 75 thousand. We're at 23rd in terms of the number of these tests. Behind us are only Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and Croatia, even the Czech Republic or Romania. Without these tests, we won't be able to isolate people who will infect others. Meanwhile, there is a new strategy against the autumn pandemic, but the tests have been brought in and ordered, please, on 10 April, when the heroic minister Szumowski called it Mr Hoc, who thanked him in the Health Committee for his tired eyes and called the icon to fight the coronavirus - he is no longer there, Mr Szumowski - on 10 April he ordered for 30 million dollars 1 million antigen tests, which, as it turns out, are not included in the Register of Medicines and Medicinal Products, and their validation has proved to be at a level of 15.20% of the test value. And these tests, hundreds of thousands of tests. They're going to hospital emergency services today, they're going to hospital emergency rooms, they're supposed to diagnose patients and staff. Is this, Minister, the way to fight the coronavirus in Polish hospitals? Is that what this autumn strategy is supposed to look like? We expose not only patients, not only patients, but above all health professionals. Antigen tests [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this issue they are completely unnecessary, they are unnecessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u127	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u128	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I think it's a very constructive proposal to strengthen and relieve the health inspection. She wasn't able to do her job. I was an old man, I know what technical and personal possibilities she had, what the pay was, what all the pressure of information was like. I've been an inspector myself lately, too, so I know how she was able to meet those tasks that were imposed on her. I now have a question about the standard of functioning of primary health care. Actually, there are three standards. One is that POZ units haven't shut down since the outbreak started and functioned all the time by accepting patients. The second standard - that they were opened after a certain period of time, and also provide advice in the context of home visits. The third standard is that they are closed and only provide teleporad, and the door is open at 10 cm to provide a certificate. The question, which one of these standards according to the Ministry is the right standard, because, ladies and gentlemen, many of these problems would have solved if the patient had been diagnosed by the doctor of first contact and he had no access to it. If there are three standards I am talking about, and they really exist, also in my constituency, it means that POS can also function without possible infections caused by medical personnel. You just have to organize it and create requirements. And each one of these POS gets the same money for a registered patient. The second thing is the question of a doctor from POZ who can direct a teleporade to a diagnosis on COVID as part of the test. The question is, what criteria are to be met by the person who calls the doctor and says, "I have these symptoms." For example, I called (the bell) to sign up for the test, and I say I have temperature, breaking in my bones, and you say it's not enough. The next day I went for the test and it turned out to be positive. I wasn't admitted to that medical facility out there, and it turns out it was just a decision of someone receiving a teleporade. And one last thing, Marshal. But please, it's time... The last thing is the question of who on the 112 phone decides what he says about sending an ambulance to pick up a patient, that they're too small a symptom, and then, as this man arrives at the hospital, it turns out that after a few days he dies because he's got a strong pneumonia. Thank you very much. But, Mr... This is a real situation. And 9 hours waiting for an ambulance to pick up a patient, that's not the standard that can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u129	Mr. President, then you resent... I'm not interrupting for a while, but it's really been too long. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the spring we woke up in another reality, where the enemy was actually everywhere. We were all terrified. A great respect to the Ministry of Health that it was able to really handle this situation professionally, all this chaos. You know, people work everywhere, and people make mistakes because they don't have perfect people. First of all, I wanted to highlight the hard work of doctors. Remember how these people were discriminated against in blocks, in their places of residence, how people were afraid to contact people who serve sick people, hand them their hands, give them tea, give them medicine. I remember that because there were people in my neighborhood that I was helping solve this problem. The children couldn't contact their mother, their father. It is a great bow towards doctors, towards all medical personnel, towards health care and the Ministry of Health. I have a question for you, Minister. There are announcements that POZs will also play a role in these actions in assisting in connection with COVID or in erases. And do you have any statistics from another department, let's say, laboratories, how many labs did the predecessors close, what were the problems, what was the situation with the health centers that were being eliminated? In my district, the Civic Platform closed down the health resort. We had to go to Bytomia, consult. It was a tragedy. I hope that these issues will be strengthened, and the Minister will lean on this subject. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will support the landscaping districts, the poor districts that have to deal with these problems. Thank you. [[Applause]] Self-governments don't decide...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u131	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition. Marshal, excuse me, can I have your attention? Because you can't hear what you're saying. I'm asking the TV studio to keep the conversation quiet, because it really bothers us in the O.R. Members complain that they do not hear what is said here. Hello, hello! I will draw attention to this at the Bureau meeting because, indeed, even I hear this noise from that side. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, about 3 million Poles suffer from diabetes and about 5 million are at risk. During the pandemic, this vast group of people may feel particularly anxious, have great concerns. Let us add to this a whole group of people with cardiovascular diseases, these are millions more people in Poland. That is why I wanted to ask on behalf of patients with diabetes and cardiology: What does access to POD doctor and specialist counseling look like? It is not a secret that teleportation in many cases is fiction. Remote examination of these patients, diabetic and cardiological, in many cases is not possible. Because how to detect remotely e.g. beginnings or progressive neuropathy, how to measure blood pressure or do honest resting ECGs or exercise, how to test cholesterol levels? Often going to see a doctor, going to a telepool, even calling a POZ bordering on a miracle. Because no one answers the phone, and coming to the clinic physically won't do anything, because the door is locked. In view of the legitimate concerns of patients with multiple diseases, I would like to ask: How many medical institutions have suspended their activities in recent months? How does the government plan to ensure the safety of visits to family doctors, specialists, and how does it plan to ensure the reliability and quality of these advices, these services? I would like to remind the rulers that every patient must have the right to examine subjectively and subjectively. Art. 68 Constitution guarantees citizens the right to health protection. This right, according to many patients, was violated during the pandemic or at least severely restricted by the state. Our citizens' fears are very right and can grow from month to month because we are ahead of the second wave of epidemics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please refer directly to my questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u133	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u134	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm joining all the words that came up about testing. Let's take care of the nurses, Mr. Minister. Don't let them ask you to test them. It should be a natural thing that if they're dealing with people who are infected, they've been in surgery, there shouldn't be something that they're asking for. Minister, this must be very clear. I'm going to refer to the situation of county hospitals. The Minister in this autumn's strategy spoke about the inclusion of county hospitals. Do you provide additional resources for these hospitals? The second thing is a lump sum valuation. The increase of 3%, ladies and gentlemen, in no way reflects what is happening in life: the rise in food prices, energy, not to mention wages which unfortunately gallop very strongly. Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for local governments, if it weren't for the old people, some of these hospitals wouldn't exist today. When will you finally make it real, ladies and gentlemen, flat-rate? Because it's not real. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very appealing for this. On the other hand, the good thing is that these procedures have been extended. On the other hand, the costs are both this year and will be when they chase it or do what they failed to do in this worst period. Does the Ministry have any way of keeping these increased costs even more out there in the field from the county hospitals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u135	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u136	Minister! Indeed, as has been said, teleports do not solve the problem in every case. Therefore, I have a question - because you said you were going to change the solution in this matter - when it will happen. In such situations, when it is suspected that POZ doctors are boycotting receptions - simply there is no possibility of access to the doctor personally - shouldn't the National Health Fund increase the control of such facilities? Next case. Will the new COVID wave increase the resources for the treatment of COVID patients in specialist hospitals? Another thing. Increased flat rate by 3%. E.g. Personal protection measures can thus be acquired to a greater extent. However, I am afraid that the avalanche price increase due to the advantage of demand over supply can simply absorb any resources that the Ministry will devote to this purpose. Therefore, does the Ministry really monitor this issue? How much is the market advantage of demand over supply used for price increases? If that is the case, if we are afraid that this trend will continue - because I am talking about the fact that any funds can be allocated and consumed by price increases - the Ministry does not consider engaging in the investigation of the phenomenon, for example. UOKiK? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u137	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is where one of the messengers talked about us breaking reality, so I'm gonna resist the facts. Yesterday, 600 new cases of Coronavirus, today - 837, an increase of almost 1/3. Ten people died yesterday, today - 16. These are numbers, these are facts, this is something we have to face. These numbers are rising. We know that autumn is this... Yeah, yeah. ...the period when these numbers may rise sharply. I've heard the statements of the state, and the minister, and the president of the GIS, that autumn is very dangerous. You have opened schools - yes, children need contact - and you have done nothing to secure teachers to secure students. [[Applause]] These students and teachers go home, there may be parents after the transplant, there are older people who are exposed to the disease. And I have a question: why didn't you agree to screening the teachers? Why didn't you agree to a free vaccine for the teacher's flu? Why didn't you give money for thinning, to provide the conditions for an authentic distance? You've introduced a deformity of the education system, you've pushed two additional yearbooks into the primary school buildings. You're talking about social distance, and in a school like this, students in the hallway meet each other during a break, and they don't have the ability to (the bell) separate. You haven't given money for thinning and you haven't given permission for hybrid teaching. This is not serious treatment of school, this is not serious treatment and prevention of epidemics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u139	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u140	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In his speech, the applicant said that at the beginning of the epidemic there were two laboratories that were prepared. Yes, there were two, because the state during the management period, the government of Poland by you eliminated more than 30 of them. But I wanted something else. I would like to say that, in the current epidemiological situation - also in the period that may be ahead of us - it is very important to be able to function in different kinds of institutions, which are responsible for our health safety, from the local level to the central authority. Here, of course, the most important ones are those that operate on the first line, health care, but also health inspection. It is the inspection of the health centre, the morale of health professionals, that the effectiveness of this institution depends very much. And so I have a question for the Minister: What were, are, and will be taken, when it comes to inspection of the health care system, in order to sustain this effectiveness and morale of the workers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, my fellow Member, I was one of those who put great trust in the Ministry of Health. And today, the scale of problems and questions, small, detailed and more general, is the result of this disappointment, which also accompanies the public, because this is not about this room. The first task of the Minister of Health is to regain confidence that people, listening to the Minister of Health, are convinced that they are listening to someone who is responsible for the common good, who speaks in the interests of public health, and who does not speak in the interests of one party, the choices to be the fifth, the 17th or anybody who says what the real situation is about the epidemic, because this is about human life. That's why I appealed from this place a few weeks ago, I said power must be as clean as a whistle. And we will not run away from the most fundamental questions I would like to ask the Minister today. It is good that there is a change in the Ministry of Health, but the question is: Who advises the health minister in substance? All over the world, such information is public. We couldn't get that information. You don't have it either, and citizens don't have it. Yes, I do. Did the Minister implement... The minister said it on the committee. He spoke yesterday. Did he implement any internal procedures to explain what happened to the ventilators that disappeared? Has the Minister implemented internal, and exactly what procedures to explain what happened to the masks? Did he commit... Yes, my fellow Member, keep mocking me. Please, come here. Tell the citizens what you have to say - you're not interested. And that is the point, Madame, that you are not interested in these matters, because you are only interested in your party and your political interest. And that's your political conscience. [[Applause]] You're being silly. You're such a fool. And did you turn... I would also like to give this confidence to the Minister. I'd like to know that you will courageously examine all the doubts that have been raised by your predecessor. Because we're not from clapping as an opposition, we are, Minister, from asking these questions. And the Minister is here to answer these questions ten times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would like to know - yet, I think, many citizens too - whether you, as the Minister of Health, need this provision, which we call a record of the lack of responsibility of dignitaries, this record that says that there will be no liability. From the perspective of the Ministry of Health, is the record that officials are not responding, needed or not? Finish your work, sir. Please answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u143	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There's no MP... Remotely, I'm sorry. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Time has passed tirelessly and we are approaching the flu period, which we expect with greater uncertainty than usual due to the difficult to predict and the predicted second wave of the epidemic of Coronavirus. Currently, several thousand patients are suspected of being infected every day, but in the flu season the number may increase to around 50,000. There is therefore no doubt that there is a need to develop a new strategy and more effective methods to combat the autumn epidemic wave. Therefore, I would like to ask: Do the current systemic possibilities allow for the advice and treatment of the expected number of patients? Do we have adequate security, personal protective equipment for medical personnel, as well as a sufficient number of laboratories and a supply of tests to be carried out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u146	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 7 August, you introduced additional restrictions in force for some counties in the country, so-called. Red, yellow and green zones. What happened? We can argue today whether it was right or wrong. The sentences are divided. But surely in this formula you did not take into account the agglomeration, a typical Silesian agglomeration, where the borders of the powiats fade, where people travel from one county, from one town to another, whether to work or to school or shopping. We all know that the number of infections depends on the number of tests carried out, of course. In Silesia a lot of research was done among miners. What did it turn out to be? It turns out that all our districts from the vending machine have been counted in the red zone. People: miners and their families were locked in houses not for 1 month, not for 2 months, but for 3. Did the Minister check these facts? Local government officials from the Silesian Association of Commons and Districts have been appealing to you for a few days now and ask, "Will you change these rules? Will you take into account the formula of these additional regimes contained in the temporary limitation for the agglomeration? This has not been done to this day, you have left local government officials, entrepreneurs and employees who, as part of such restrictions, have suffered additional losses, themselves. Have you addressed to those entities I am talking about, any means for this purpose? Did you send any help to the health center in Wodzisław Śląskie, who was in a horror movie during this period? He can't bounce back until today. Those tired people working 24 hours a day. They struggled with problems all the time. I ask you today: Minister, how do you secure all these actors today in terms of, God forbid, future tragedies that may happen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u147	Thank you, sir. The Member shall be corrected. Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u148	Thank you, Marshal. I'm forced to give an answer, it's about my esteemed colleague. Let me repeat: yes, I really think that Minister Łukasz Szumowski is a true icon of effective fight against the coronavirus. That's first of all. I think, on his behalf, for the Professor, and I will quote my fellow Member and perhaps other colleagues from the opposition such an old rabbinic proverb with a very eloquent point: Tell me what I have done so good to you that you hate me so much. That's first of all. And second, testing. Yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, a member of the Health Committee, who is not a doctor, had to tell the obvious truth: tests do not cure. [[Applause]] Bravo! It is necessary to test in a responsible and rational manner. The tests don't cure. Then why the doctors? That must have been told by a member of the committee who's not a doctor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Then why do the research, sir? Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u149	It was supposed to be a corrigendum... Mr Latos is still being corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u150	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have been referred to several times by Mrs Skowronska in her speech. Ladies and gentlemen! Really with all the sympathy for this to be clear, I want to say that we were and are in favour of testing health professionals - this is happening - it is only necessary to know when, of course, under what conditions, under which circumstances it should be done, and not simply... It's not a zero-one option. I think we all know what we are talking about, and these are the very things that appear in this debate completely unnecessary. Let's think about what to do to make the next weeks and months better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u151	Thank you. That wasn't a corrigendum either. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! At the beginning of the COVID pandemic, the opposition hysterically demanded a state of natural disaster. Time has shown that it is a good thing that the government has not succumbed to this hysteria and acted on the basis of other laws. He wasn't hysterical because he was panicked. Besides, this debate also shows that some hysteria has not left to this day. But my question concerns current actions and related plans. They are to be eliminated so-called. Uni-named hospitals where Coronavirus patients have been treated so far. Please inform us how hospitalization and hospital treatment of patients with COVID-19 will work. Although the Minister has already signaled this topic today, I ask for more details, because I have been asked whether there is no concern that patients with COVID-19 treated in the same hospital as patients with other diseases may be infected with these other patients. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u154	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The care and care facilities, care and welfare facilities and social services are very high-risk facilities. Unfortunately, before the pandemic, these individuals were very underestimated, they lacked medical personnel, and the pandemic showed it in a drastic way. It was in these facilities that the greatest tragedy occurred. That's where most of the diseases were. That's where the most problems were. There were situations when a nurse took care of dozens of people herself. The doctor on the verge of exhaustion, himself with COVID, was unable to do anything for himself, but he did everything for the patients, for the sick. And he finally found himself in a hospital in an infectious ward. Those tragedies could be described here as immense, immense amounts. Self-governments and crews of social services homes and long-term care facilities were only able to cope with this because they were so determined. The masks were missing. Where were those masks from? The Poles simply delivered masks to the DPS, which they sew with their own hands. There were no disinfectants. Where were these resources from? It was the workers themselves who prepared these products, mixing various fluids so that their hands could be disinfected. The suits were also missing. There was nothing, there was no guidelines. The directors themselves decided what they would be doing in terms of caring for their patients, because the guidelines came with a huge delay. So what? What happened next? What's the conclusion? The conclusion is that the staff didn't have psychological care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When I spoke to the directors of these facilities, I asked them how they were doing. The biggest problem was the psyche, the psyche of the crew and the psyche of the subjects. Go ahead and finish. In this situation, I would like to know what the strategy is right now, not only for these individuals, but also for 200,000. Lonely people staying in homes under the care of social assistance centres, where access to care for a family doctor is very difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u155	I ask you, however, to stick to your time. Please, Mr Stanisław Bukovowiec, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u156	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 August he resigned as Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski. It seemed that the PiS wanted to close a chapter in this way, without explaining, of course, everything that was happening during the pandemic. I'm going back to that time. April. In April, you voted for the first bill, a shield for officials and politicians, a shield for protection, a shield of impunity for purchases of goods and services. We've all seen what happened at the time. We saw it very well with Mr Szczerba at the Ministry of Health, because at some point we were there every day. We've seen useless masks, padlocks from friends, masks from friends, of course. From the arms dealer to today 74 million PLN have not returned. That's money with interest. 74 million PLN. Well, that's not all there is. Now we're back to testing. In April, the Ministry of Health orders and signs a test contract. A day later, he sends $15 million to a company in Korea. The tests were supposed to be done by the end of May. Instead of 1 million, it hits 0.5 million in September. What's going on next? Minister Kraska writes and sends these tests to the SOR on September 10th. Together with Mr Szczerba on 15 September, which is 5 days after these tests end up in the SORs, we are going to the registration office of medicinal products asking whether such information has entered the registration office. Well, the president at the meeting with us says she didn't come in. But three minutes later he says this: gentlemen, something strange, because I just got an e-mail and received a letter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we ask the President to write it in writing that during the meeting a request was made to notify the registration office of medicinal products. This not only shows that there has been embezzlement, theft of money, but also shows that what the Ministry of Health does is absolutely unprofessional and endangers the life and health of Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's a lie. Do you want to see it? There you go. Who told you this was a lie? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u157	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Adam Sněžkou, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The hope for controlling the COVID-19 pandemic is to develop, produce and apply a large-scale vaccine to Coronavirus. We are all following information on the work on vaccine run in various pharmaceutical companies around the world. Recent reports have been made that such a vaccine may occur at the end of this year. I would like to ask what information the Ministry of Health has on the progress of the work on an effective, tested, tested vaccine for Coronavirus. What are the measures taken by the government so that immediately after such a vaccine has been developed, it can be applied in Poland effectively and on a mass scale? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u160	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There'll be a few questions. The first question, I think, is that it is very important to reduce social security contributions. How will those contributions which have been decommitted in relation to the pandemic be reimbursed? That's the first question, Minister. But you can't talk about preparing for a second wave of pandemics today, this autumn pandemic without explaining certain things. With Mr Ionski, the new Minister of Health, we gave some credit, we said: Time, Minister, such a thick line to separate this time of Łukasz Szumowski, this muddy water in the health resort, this cloudy water caused by I would also like the High House to be fully aware of this within two months - between April and the end of May, the Minister of Health and his authorised Deputy Minister made one-man decisions on purchases of equipment and personal protective equipment for nearly PLN 1 billion. These cases are still causing doubts, Minister. We were talking about ventilators. It was supposed to be 1241, and it finally came in 200. But we're still checking. We're checking the reception protocols. It turns out that there are no documentation, no warranty cards, no service confirmation, no entities to share spare parts. On 15 September we were also at the registration office of medicinal products. We asked not only about the antigen tests, which the Ministry of Health is now trying to push into the emergency rooms, in the SORs, even though in May Łukasz Szumowski said directly: We will advertise these tests, we have doubts about them, about their sensitivity, about their effectiveness. We also asked about these ventilators, whether or not someone reported these ventilators to the medical registration office. And we have a letter, ladies and gentlemen (the bell), signed by the President of the Office. No notification or notification to Draeger Savina 300 was received at the office. It's about the ventilators provided by the arms dealer to the Ministry of Health... Thank you very much. ... Material Reserve Agency. These ventilators, Minister, have not yet been registered. You're pretending everything's okay. No, it's not okay. Thank you very much. We demand that you explain this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u161	Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going back to one-name hospitals in chaos, no backup. One of these hospitals is a hospital in my town, Raciborz. Although it lies on the outskirts of the voivodship, in the neighborhood, in the neighbouring voivodship and next to it, there are two others, this hospital has been selected. Nurses, with families, paramedics worked on these robots, construction almost, quickly transforming this hospital - without support, without personal protective equipment, with prompts for decent wages, almost with the crying of the staff. But it's already been done. Now we have a new strategy and transformation, defrosting hospitals. And what does it turn out to be? The one-name hospital in Raciborz is not in the third category. We were hoping that there would be a return to normal activity, because it has to be acknowledged that in this case, the conversion of a hospital physically connected and functionally with specialist clinics resulted in a complete limitation of access to specialist medical care. This care has not been provided for long. Still, at the same time, so-called. hybrid model, this care is not fully provided for both hospital and specialist clinics. I'm being approached by patients asking whom to apply for compensation for loss of health and sometimes even the lives of their loved ones - just because the distance and availability of specialist care and this urgent hospital care... It has been so extended that it exposes their loved ones and themselves to loss of life (the Bell) or health. Is it not by chance the rules we are talking about that limit to this responsibility that we are talking about impunity? Thank you very much. One more question because I don't get specific answers... Go ahead and finish. ...from the voivodeship or the minister. I ask the Minister of Health, who has not answered me, for a specific written reply. How, and at what time, will the proper level of medical care be restored for the inhabitants of Racibor land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u163	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The P.I.S. Member said the government wasn't hysterical. Really? Yes. He was acting in panic. Compulsively he was buying equipment from COVID, which the hustlers were shoving into his hand. Thus he drowned, as it turns out, hundreds of millions of zlotys, wasted public money. He continued to have a split personality or a clear darkness, for what does Matthew Moravian Evangelist testify, who said on July 2nd: Go to the elections, no coronavirus, disappeared, no pandemic? He still suffered cataracts, maybe even cataracts, because he stopped seeing other sick people. Where were the information campaigns that said, "Go to medical treatment?" Did you know that only in the Opole Oncology Centre in one quarter of 2020 more than a thousand women were present for mammography studies less than a year ago? Over a thousand, and all the women that come in there, they come in with suspicion that something happened. Doctors say: 2-, 3-month slips in diagnosis, more Poles and Poles will die of cancer due to lack of diagnosis, because they did not get to the doctor at the right time than to COVID, and that is certain. You are responsible for this because you stopped seeing sick Poles. There was no news campaign, there was a lie on TV. Don't lie to me. It was to let people go to the election. There was a lie about Rafał Trzaskowski's candidate. That's what you guys did. The government wasn't in news campaigns to get people to go so you wouldn't freeze everyone, and most of all, these. [[♪ The bell ♪]] who are supposed to go to the doctor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław... You went with the cards to collect signatures under the letters. Member, ladies and gentlemen... It's hit, it's hit, it's hit, it's hit, it's hit, Ladies and gentlemen... Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to the latest report by NIK, the increase in healthcare expenditure has hardly improved citizens' access to health services in any way. That's the fact that we went into an epidemic. The only area where changes have been recorded is cataract treatment. In some cases, the number of patients waiting for treatment, medical care not only did not decrease, but increased significantly, including hospital treatment, outpatient treatment, specialist care, rehabilitation. At COVID, Minister, these problems have gotten much worse. We had practically suspended work in hospitals that were turned into single-name hospitals, and previously they were hospitals often the best in the voivodship, highly specialized in operations and treatments that are important for the health of citizens. The planned parties were suspended for almost two months in most hospitals. Visits were postponed to specialists: oncologists, cardiologists, and today patients with a much more advanced stage of disease go to doctors. The Pandemic forced practically complex reorganization in the facilities, which absorbed costs, but also extended patient support, so the number of admissions decreased. And all of this makes health care facilities in a very difficult situation, especially county hospitals, likely to increase their losses this year and deepen their debt. And I wanted to ask the Minister here about a few important issues that we did not get an answer to at the Health Committee meeting. First of all, how will the lump sum be valued for the next year and will you take into account the fact that the hospitals were not (the bell) able to implement these parties planned due also to the recommendations of the NFZ and the Ministry of Health? And many of these lump sums will no longer be able to catch up and do as planned. Will this lead to a final settlement and will this lead to a lump sum valuation for subsequent periods? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u167	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is, of course, a very important debate and I would like to finally ask specific questions about the situation of hospitals, the situation of increasing the number of doctors. They are important in terms of preparing the state for the fight against this epidemic and any other epidemic, as well as taking care of the quality of health care every day. Minister! Therefore, the first question. How will the problem of hospitals be solved, which have failed to make a lump sum due to the epidemic situation? Under the rules in force, the implementation of less than 98% results in a reduction in the lump sum. And I have a very simple, concrete question as to whether there is a possibility of lowering this ratio to 75-80%. Second question. If we look at the medical exams, it can be defined for some specializations so that this year there was a pogrom. Has the Ministry analysed the reasons for this, or are there any conclusions? What will be the consequences and actions taken in this regard? This is of course important because of the doctor's deficit. Third question. What were the reasons for the increase in the NFZ plan for POZ funds in the amount much higher than for hospitals? Poz-s obviously need support, but if this applies to an epidemic situation, hospitals were burdened with the fight against COVID. Is the Ministry planning to adjust the increase in hospital funds comparable to what is happening in POZ? I repeat, this is the right direction. Another question. What are the planned changes in the organisation and operation of the hospital network? They're necessary. Question: "Is the ministry moving forward?" Finally, I would like to raise the issue of changing the network of single-name hospitals and isolates. This network in the Silesian Voivodship [[♪ The bell ♪]] has been limited on the basis of experience so far. But has the Ministry developed a scenario for the situation of infection growth and the need to provide more places in these units? Is the Ministry planning to return... Thank you very much. ...to the existing network of these hospitals? And please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, the representative of the applicants, please take the floor. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We're meeting today to work out a program together despite the mistakes we've made. We very much hope that the change at the head of the Ministry of Health and the fact that there came an experienced man driving the NFZ, but also working in NIK, will contribute to the fact that the Ministry will undertake these internal investigations and attempt to explain these multimillion-dollar scandals. The public would like to know that everything is okay there, or that it is wrong, and that it is necessary to punish those who have made mistakes or possibly a crime. Our main concern is that the Polish society should be protected from the possible COVID relapse and that, as in the first wave, this should not happen at the expense of entrepreneurs and at the expense of people who lost their jobs. We as opposition will certainly support all reasonable proposals from the Ministry and all your actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u171	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There were a lot of questions, I don't even know if I can answer them all. Allow me to focus on the questions that have been raised quite often in your speeches. Maybe I'll start with a flu vaccine, because I think this topic is a very media topic recently, but I think it's also important for Poles. This vaccine, which will be used now, this year in Poland, is a vaccine that contains as many as four strains of viruses: these are two type A viruses, two type B viruses. The response of our body, if we are young, is actually 100% So we get almost 100% immunity. In older people, unfortunately, this resistance is within the range of 60% and 70%. The Scientific Council of the National Influenza Control Programme, which recommends of course every year vaccination, as do we - the Ministry of Health, to our question, when we should vaccinate for the flu, answered that theoretically from September to April, but the optimal months for vaccination are November and December. And that's because after vaccination, after a month, we get a maximum immune response, and this response only lasts for 30 to 60 days, then with each month, this response falls by 10%. Therefore, all series of vaccines that will be sent to Poland are not random tranches. They are linked to this period when the flu epidemic occurs most often in Poland, i.e. from January to March inclusive. Therefore, the first tranches that arrived in Poland with regard to influenza vaccine were tranches in the first weeks of September. In the first week - 200 thousand, in the second week - another 200 thousand, in the last week of September another tranche - 400 thousand will arrive in Poland. vaccines, early September and October - over 500,000. and gradually in the following weeks of October. That's about 2 million vaccines. Because this year is a very popular influenza vaccination, which I am very happy about, because personally as a doctor I have always been vaccinated and will be vaccinated against influenza, at the moment we will increase the number of vaccines that will appear on the market. I think it will be enough for anyone who would like to be vaccinated to take advantage of this possibility. So that at the beginning of October the vaccine will be delivered free of charge to Polish health care, that is 114 thousand. vaccines. At the moment, we're getting a list of people who want to be vaccinated from hospital directors. The Scientific Council of the National Programme for the Control of Influenza predicts that this year Poles willing to inoculate for the flu can be about 2.5.3 million. I hope that this will happen because we know that prevention is very important. Many questions were also about the hospital strategy. You know that we left hospitals with one-named hospitals, which are large hospitals, actually quite high in the ranking in terms of providing benefits. At the moment, there are only nine hospitals and these hospitals, in addition to the high-specialization activities intended for patients with the coronavirus, will also provide services for other patients. This part is kind of divided. At the moment, there is no danger that in a given locality, a given district of residents have difficult access to a doctor, they will not receive help in this hospital. These hospitals work, as I said, in nine places about 1,000. Places are meant for this, so I think that's enough space. Many questions also concerned primary health care. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an autumn-winter season ahead of us, an infection season, a cold season, almost every one of us will be affected: probably fever, cough, malaise. The place we're applying to is basic health care. That is why we have launched this system (the bell) and we will consistently monitor it, the national fund will enforce it, so that not only the teleportation provided by the family doctor is available, but also a personal examination of the patient. Unfortunately, we have signals that many diseases that have been diagnosed in the form of teleporads have proved to be very dangerous diseases for patients, which could result in even earlier deaths. Therefore, it is so important that POZ doctors at the moment help the whole health care service during the autumn-winter period. There was also a question of how the DPS are prepared. Indeed, DPS residents who will be sent to these centers will be tested against the coronavirus, so I think that carrying out this test, but also directing very large amounts of personal protective equipment, disinfectants to the DPS should protect employees, but also the pensioners from possible infection with the coronavirus. There were a lot of questions about why there are so few tests at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we've changed the testing philosophy, and right now we're testing mostly symptomatic patients, but not only. We're also testing patients who have been assigned to sanatoriums, they've been assigned to the DPS, to the hospice. When it comes to testing, developing outbreaks of infection by the health care department, there we will also perform skinning tests, just as we did in the case of large workplaces or mines. At the moment, 185 laboratories are operating in Poland, whose daily capacity is about 60 thousand. daily tests. So we're using 1/4 of the possibilities that we have. Indeed, we have increased employment in health care in recent years. Let me remind you that in previous years, unfortunately, employment fell by 1/4 and laboratories were being liquidated, which is why we had to gradually rebuild this potential. There were also questions about the psychiatry of children and young people. Indeed, the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber has recently appeared. Let me just remind you that this check ended on 30 August 2019 and we on 14 August 2019, i.e. earlier, created a new model of child psychiatric care (Gwar in the hall, bell) and youth. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Let me just say that in 2015 167 million children and young people were spent on psychiatric care, and in 2020 more than 500 million PLN. We want this care not to be purely hospital care, but we want children to be able to apply to the so-called. daily centres. Since the beginning of the year there have been 138 of these centers. We plan to have over 300 centres of environmental psychological and psychotherapeutic care for children and young people throughout Poland. There were also questions about the availability and effects of specialist doctors' closure in terms of cancer. In fact, two months this year, April and May, were the months when the least were issued DiLO cards, i.e. those cards that showed that the patient was suspected of tumor or had a diagnosed tumor. If we look at August, the last month, the data we collected, and compare it with the data from August 2019, then 6827 were issued in the DiLO Cards in 2019 and 6999 in August this year, i.e. we can see that the displayability of the DiLO cards is back to the level of... Finish up, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: ...before the previous period. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u173	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. The committee responsible has submitted a report on Parliament's draft laws: - on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act, print No 625. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection! To which point? For what, for trial or for the time being? How much time do you propose to speak? Just like yesterday - 10 minutes. You're welcome. I'll allow it for 10 minutes. [[Applause]] In that case, we begin the procession of this point. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on Parliamentary drafts of laws: amending the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws, amending the Animal Protection Act (Prints No. 597, 378 and 625). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Animal Protection Act No 378, and on the parliamentary draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws, print No 597. Sejm at its 17th meeting of 16 September 2020 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred these draft laws to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Commission met on 16 September at 3 p.m. 23 and completed work on 17 September at 3 p.m. 7:30. The aim of the legislative action is to strengthen the legal protection of animals and to improve their well-being, to ensure better treatment of animals, to increase the control of local authorities and the social factor over the provision of shelters for homeless animals, to strengthen the effectiveness of controls on animal protection law by operators by increasing their frequency, to clarify the tasks of municipalities in providing shelters, to make it difficult to deal with the protection of homeless animals to persons convicted of intentional animal offences or to be convicted of intentional violence offences. Establishment of an advisory body at the Minister for Agriculture to monitor the state of animal protection. The proposed changes will further implement the ideas of humanitarianism in the treatment of animals. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering the draft laws at its meeting on 16 September 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit at the request of the applicants 50 minority applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u175	Thank you very much, sir. I want to reassure those of you who are waiting for the vote. There won't be any votes at the moment. We normally consider this point. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the Law amending the Animal Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, before hours. 8, the committee has completed its work. This was mentioned by the rapporteur. Indeed, we have worked for almost 12 hours, but the final effect is, you can say, reasonably satisfactory. Why is that satisfactory? Because we have adopted most of the provisions of the original law, which has been adopted as the basis of the rights created, i.e. the rights declared by the Law and Justice Club. We have supplemented the Act on an element called colloquially retirement for animals that serve the state. It's about animals that work in the police, they protect buildings, they look for explosives or drugs, or they search for people under rubble or under snow. Those animals that serve us should, in our opinion, have a decent life also when they stop working. They serve us and we are obliged to show their gratitude. That's why we've extended the project to this element. During the committee's work, a request was made to reject the ban on ritual slaughter from the project. The votes of the majority of members were removed. Therefore, we will report at second reading an amendment restoring the ban on ritual slaughter. On the other hand, due to concerns that this will lead to bankruptcy, poverty, will have drastic consequences, and we will also propose adequate compensation for lost income from this. At first reading, we tabled an amendment which gives the opportunity to pay compensation for the decommissioning of the fur industry called the fur industry. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add that, by a majority of the original draft, an amendment has been removed allowing social organisations, together with the Police or the City Guard, to carry out checks and receive the persecuted, man-made animal. These rules have been refined, but most have decided not to introduce such a solution. There were fears that this would be abused. The costs incurred in such a check would be borne by the person who is subject to that check, whether rightfully or wrongly. That is why this provision has been withdrawn and we will prepare an amendment - we will make it in second reading - which restores this power, but also adds an element of control and shared responsibility. So if a police officer or another officer who is involved in the investigation finds that it is not justified, it will not continue to violate citizens' rights. Of course, in the event that the inspection is carried out properly and grossly, the animals will have to be taken back and transferred to the hostel, the cost of these activities will be borne by the person who has committed drastic behaviour. But so it doesn't go as they say... It was called unpleasant control. I will not mention what some of my colleagues said at the committee meeting. We will propose that, in the event that such control is carried out unjustly, unjustly, and that the person who takes care of the animal who has not made any immoral act against him and is exposed to his removal, the costs be borne by the person who has wrongly undertaken the control. We're putting in some kind of balance. It is also a matter of wondering whether the case of questionable situations should not be taken less drastic steps that would help protect the animal, but would not involve entering someone's property, violating property, if the situation is really not drastic. Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said after these many hours of work that colleagues still had amendments, which I think are meaningful, but in the night mode it was not possible to fully analyse the effects of their introduction. We have committed that we will continue to work on improving animal welfare. We have rejected some of the amendments, for which we may not apologize as much as we were simply not able to analyze them thoroughly at night. And there were people who were very critical, who made it difficult, who tabled amendments... Oh, my gosh, they've been making adjustments. ...completely disconnected from reality and logic. Some of them will hum a little bit from the benches - hit the table - the scissors will talk, we know who it is. They actually tabled various kinds of amendments, dozens of amendments, it ended with dozens of votes, more than 80 votes, most of which consisted in the fact that it had to be deleted, Article. 1 point 2 etc. Of course, the part was documented, substantive, one of the most interesting amendments was the vacathio legis tabled by the Member - 30 years of extinction of the industry. Of course, it was all about obstruction, which is why maybe today we're all a little sleepy. But we are happy that this project was adopted by the committee, and I firmly believe that it will be adopted by the Sejm and we will join countries that can pride themselves on being humanitarianly treating not only people but also animals, our younger brothers. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I strongly recommend that the High House accept this project. We will also make amendments and ask for their support, and we will report them until the end of the second reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u177	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very long night behind us at the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. For almost 11 hours we have tabled amendments, in many points there has been a very turbulent discussion. I would like to refer to the most important things that have happened during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. Firstly, a very bad decision is to remove the ban on the production of meat from ritual slaughter for export. The slaughter without stunning is a horror that should not take place in the 21st century, especially in the industrial band form for export. We hope - and here Mr Suski has also declared this - that we will be able to change this decision and return to the original form of writing. Secondly, the provisions on the list of non-governmental organisations which may exercise the powers which give them the proposed amendment are very worrying. The conditions for obtaining an entry on the list are too vague and may lead to a specific discretion within the decision of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to include the organisation in the list. In fact, these records can mean that many organisations already have their powers and need to be changed. Thirdly, the wrong decision was that the committee rejected Dariusz Ionski's amendment to prohibit the use of horses on the way to the Sea Eye. Fourthly, the question of chipping dogs. As the Civic Coalition, we have tabled a very good amendment so that the element of the project submitted a few days ago concerning chipping is reflected, and is also included in the procedated bill. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. In this case, we are counting on a change of decision and we are going to make this amendment to the vote as a minority motion. In the committee, Tomasz Aniśko and I made a number of proposals as Members of the Green Party, specific amendments that would make this project a genuine support for animals. Some of these amendments have the support of the Civic Coalition, some, I hope, will find support among Members and Members of various groups. We have proposed a complete ban on keeping animals trapped and chained and using earrings. We have proposed that all fur animals, including rabbits, be banned from breeding. We have proposed to set the upper limits of compensation for circuses up to their 3-month turnover. We have proposed a record giving access to the documentation, but also its preservation and processing in order to protect animals by non-governmental organisations. Finally, we proposed to introduce a minimum standard of two walks a day for each dog. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Most of these amendments will be tabled as minority proposals, some of them agreed within the Civic Coalition will be tabled again as second reading amendments. The committee has managed to make some good amendments, but I hope that today we will correct the mistakes that have been made in this fast, nightly mode. I also hope that Members will decide in many places in accordance with their conscience to support even minority proposals. Today we are facing a real chance to change the fate of millions of animals in Poland and let us not hesitate to do this step together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u179	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska to continue her club speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday I appealed to you for consistency, for serious treatment of the subject of animal protection. A few moments later, there was a vote and 35 Members from the PiS club were in favour of tormenting animals. These were leading ministers: Mr Ziobro, Kaleta, Wójcik, but also Mr Duda. What are you saying? That's too bad, because the president in the campaign spoke so beautifully about animals. Maybe it's worth taking good examples not only before the elections. Those Members who voted so yesterday wanted to reject the discussion of fundamental animal rights from the march, together with the members of the Confederation, who repeatedly disturbed our speeches and did not allow us to work in committee yesterday. What happened on the committee yesterday was a huge chaos. The Commission completed its work literally a few hours ago. The social side was supposed to be banned from this work, only in the gym it turned out that there were representatives of the fur business... They weren't even there at all. ...and only because of our vigilance have we been able to introduce pro-animal activists. Later, despite your earlier announcements, you pushed through an amendment to soften the rules on ritual slaughter, you rejected our amendments on chipping animals, keeping records, still allowing dogs to be chained, using earrings. So you didn't listen to my appeal yesterday, you turned on the only right radio, and you turned off your sensitivity. Why are you ignoring the social voice? 80% citizens are not allowed to farm animals for fur. Why do you have deep respect for the achievements of scientists, researchers from the Polish Academy of Sciences, who indicate that watching animal training in circuses has no educational value and has a bad effect on young people? I would like to ask: What do you view the alleged power of the Polish fur industry, which closed last winter's 40 farms and in recent years as many as 200? Why don't you want to notice the civilizational changes that are taking place in front of you? Stop treating animals as business. That's the collapse of civilization. Stop supporting entrepreneurs who make money out of animal suffering. Accept our amendments, which I have in my hand here, and I'll put them together in a moment. Be consistent at last. You said, "A, say, "B." Today's your chance to finally be a good change, and I'm counting on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u181	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Unfortunately, as usual, there is no Minister Ardanowski, who should be in this Chamber, but should also be at a committee meeting, because this law concerns farmers, concerns agriculture and agricultural sectors. Ladies and gentlemen! The Animal Protection Act was announced by President Kaczyński by the words: This is a law that all good people will support. After working nightly in the committee, which was scandalously led by the presidents, I have a question to ask the President: Where were the good people of the United Right when a comprehensive amendment was rejected that protected the interests of workers, entrepreneurs, farmers who would lose their income in connection with the entry into force of this law? Where were the good men of the right hand? [[Applause]] I ask: Where were the good people on the right hand side when you rejected the amendment, which was the only amendment that was comprehensively prepared, which involved chipping, in which there was a register of chip dogs, a register of shelters and a comprehensive settlement of the issue of the homeless animals? Where were they for eight years when you were in charge? Where were the good people sensitive to the fate of the animals? Where have you been for five years? And that's the last question. Mr President, where were the good men of the right hand when the ban on keeping dogs chained was rejected? Where were they? In the Seym Room? Mr. President, I have an appeal for you, but I also have some sad news for you. There's a lot of people at your club who haven't passed the exam on the subject. A good man. And I have an appeal for you to support our amendments, if indeed, as the President says, in the right side of this room and in the United Right, good people support everything that serves animals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Mrs Beata Maciejewska and Mr Marcin Kulasek next. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u184	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As I said yesterday and as we have been saying for many months, the Left is in favour of animal rights. These two draft laws, which were examined yesterday, which ended with a uniform legislative proposal, are a proposal that we will support. I would like to say that, as recommended by the team for the protection of farmed animals as a Left, we have not tabled many key amendments, considering that this proposal, which has been placed on the table today, is a good proposal that needs to be dealt with. On the other hand, we have tabled amendments on two key issues: strengthening the competences of social organisations, as well as compensation. As far as the question of strengthening social organisations is concerned, as I said yesterday, this law is actually on the table thanks to social organisations today. It is thanks to the many years of work of organizations both national, worldly and those in our small towns - it is up to them to face - today we have this law here, because they are still the ones who are alerting, supporting and helping. Our amendments were rejected, although we believe they were very good, and we encourage them to vote when they are put to the vote by minority proposals. E.g. We pointed out the need to ban the use of animals, for example. as prizes in lotteries or any auction. We have also pointed out that animals that are received during intervention can go to the organisations that received them, because it is these organisations that know best how to deal with them and what to do with them. That's what animal social organizations are for, to work for animals, and we'll always be walking hand in hand with them as a Left. The second point that we spoke very much about yesterday at the committee meeting, which was not only conducted in a way, I would say very controversial, but also torpedoed by some of the members of the Confederation by making amendments, a dozen to one point, by special extension of time, by pretending to be concerned, just to torpedo these amendments. We also talked about compensation. That is why - as I mentioned and as always the club of the Left said - we are with those who have no voice, but we are also with those who can be left behind, and we do not want that to happen. That is why we have also applied for compensation for people who are very often employed today for very low salaries in certain places and who should receive compensation after their release. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we will vote on this bill, and we will also vote as a Left in favour of those amendments that will be tabled today and which were thrown out of this draft in the committee's deliberations yesterday. We're in favour of animal rights. We will proceed with the hope that we can change their fate to all those who stand on the side of animal rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u185	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Marcin Kulask to continue his club appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left opposes the suffering of animals. The task of a modern state should be to eliminate unnecessary animal suffering. This bill is a step in the right direction. The Left continues to support the bill. If you want to say, "A," you also have to say, "B." If he wants to eliminate the suffering of animals, he has to give money for it. Firstly, we demand that fair compensation be paid to farmers, entrepreneurs and local government units. The state cannot leave them to itself. He extends a helping hand to animals, but he also needs a helping hand to reach out to people, not to beat around the bush - a hand with money. The second problem is a systemic problem. Fur animals were fed waste from animal and fish production. This reduced the production costs of the meat industry and ensured the competitiveness of our exports. Those waste had to go to disposal, which has to be paid for. In addition, the capacity of the rendering plants may not be sufficient. The state should take on the solution to the problem. Where the market for the disposal of animal waste is dominated by the foreign market, the disposal of animal waste should be organised with us. The State should set up a company to receive and dispose of animal waste. And cast your own. You want to create a national food holding company. It was intended to create a state retail network. [[Game in the O.R.]] Colleagues from the Confederation, please do not interfere with the Member's club speech. It is not needed for anyone, but the Polish animal waste disposal unit is needed immediately. Do not leave our farmers and entrepreneurs to themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Marshal, three minutes to use. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The responsibility for animals should be between us and not between us. There are disgraceful words in this Seym Room. From the perspective of what's been going on with animals over the years, killing animals... Treated like Jews for Hitler. ...to allow animals to be tormented, today the words that fall out of the mouth of the Confederacy are a applause for all of this. Those who today stand on the side of disrespect for animals should be ashamed that they are representatives of the nation in this room. [[Applause]] Responsibility for animals is the same as responsibility for humans. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, no. Who doesn't know that, they cheat on animals. And you, men of the Confederation, are where people stand, who abuse, beat and murder animals. [[Applause]] Total animalization. Each one of you paid. It will be your mandate for how perverted you are today. Because you are, since you treat animals like no one, no decent man would treat them. You're sitting in these last benches and laughing. You laugh at the fate of animals. The disgrace for this Parliament is that we must sit in these benches with you... Bravo! ...because you represent people with no respect for animals. [[Applause]] That's what we're talking about. That's the truth. The responsibility for animals is to seek good compromises. That is why the Left has tabled amendments, which are also intended to give a sense of security to entrepreneurs and workers who benefit today, who work in a sector that will have problems. We all know that. The responsibility is that we don't fight in this room, but we can talk together. Blocking laws to ensure respect for animals does not mean that we do not remember people who have worked with them so far, but also that as one of the last countries of the European Union, we are taking up a subject that has been taboo in Poland so far. You know that. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Left Club, which has been involved in the work of the Agriculture Committee for 11 hours, I would like to thank all the Members who have bravely defended this project for 11 hours, which is today the answer to the fact that politicians protect animals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by the president of the club Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To protect the tigers. When President Kaczyński at TikToku announced the liquidation of Polish agriculture, he said that it would be a law that measured decency and showed kindness. This act is not an act of decency. Firstly, your bill is an act of indictment against the Polish village and the Polish farmer, that he cannot handle his prey, does not care about this game, cannot live with it and grow it. [[Applause]] This is your indictment against the Polish village. There's no permission to do that. And there can be no consent to humiliating our history, tradition and culture. There is no permission in any, I think, club - in our, in the Polish Coalition, to abuse animals, to violate Polish law, to be a bandit towards an animal. And those are the ones to be chased. And that's possible today. But is that what you've done? Where were your inspections? Where's your D.A.'s office? Where are all your special forces? Why aren't they after us? And today you are presenting a bill in which you say: yes, the Polish village is not suitable for animal care. You humiliate a Polish farmer. And that's the file. Not only the charges, but this is also an act of your surrender. You won the election in the country, and today you capitulated to represent the interests of the Polish village and the Polish farmer. You capitulate because you don't have the courage to admit a great fraud. You cheated, exploited, and rejected the Polish village. [[Applause]] You got the votes there, but you don't want to take care of this Polish village today. And this is another act of your stupidity because you're shutting down the industry during the crisis. If any industry in the global crisis is being eradicated, it is foolish. If you want to slaughter Polish agriculture and introduce an embargo... The Polish government is implementing the embargo on Polish agriculture by law and justice. It is the elimination of poultry in Poland - 40% They're exporting. Why are they exporting in the Halal system or the kosher? Because these are the religious rites of the countries to which we sell it. 1.5 billion. And a little to the opposition now. So often you talk about the constitution - very well, we agree. I don't have a problem with your opinions because you have one, not another. I respect that, but on the one hand you scream: the constitution, where there is religious freedom and freedom of religious rites, and on the other hand you say that these religious rites are incompatible and incorrect. This is where there's some inconsistencies. And then I'm going to talk about proceding, because I think that on a lot of things you just don't like him. This is an act of stupidity, because we have ASF - African swine fever, we have avian influenza, people introduce bioinsurance, spend a lot of money, and you say that anyone will be able to enter the farm soon without checking the health tests, breaking all the rules of bioinsurance. It's going to be more vectors, not just coronavirus, but ASF or any other infectious disease occurring in animals. This is an act of stupidity, because in many cases we replaced the pig breeding industry, where 100,000. farms have recently been removed, for breeding and for the production of beef or poultry. What are they supposed to do now? This is the fall, this is 7 billion exports, this is the fall of Polish agriculture, these are connected vessels. Someone will say, but it won't touch every farmer. But the production of waste that is recycled on farms - 750,000. t and the burden on the costs of a small farm is the fall of this small farm. And with you in your ranks, dear PiS, there are so many people who know that. And there's even Twitter passwords: the wall behind Ardan. So, Ardan showed us what he could do in the vote yesterday. Beautiful letters can be written, but later in the vote, when it comes to what... He's still got a chance today. And I'm giving him this chance to believe that like everyone else who could behave and represent the people they voted for. You're gonna go to the country and expect her to forget in three years? I think President Kaczyński wants to test himself for how long the memory of this law will last in the country. I promise you, this bill is a very long time ago. And an act of stupidity, because what's next? Now eliminate this part of the Polish economy, Polish agriculture, and what will happen next? No milk in schools? A pork chop shipment? These are your directions. Well, that's what it looks like. Dear people, there are no fur enthusiasts at the Polish Coalition Club, in PSL, in Kukiz15. These are your colleagues, who are export goods to the European Parliament and who have seen a captive. [[Applause]] Embargo for Polish agriculture is becoming a fact. Embargo for Polish agriculture introduced not by any country, any neighbour, but by Poland, the Polish government. It's unacceptable, we just can't agree to that. And don't take away our decency and morality in the care of animals. 'Cause if this bill wasn't a mishma of all possible elements, it's probably 100%. To vote to ban animals and raise animals for circus use, keep them in the circus. But here's the combination of the economy, the combination of our tradition, our history, and you guys are gonna put a measure of decency on us right now? Who are you? We have our sensitivity, and it comes from tradition and all that we grew up in. And the Polish village is like that. You want to change it like that? This is how you defend against enigmatic ideologies, but this is where you introduce your ideology. [[Applause]] And you don't mind going with the Left, with the Civic Coalition. In my opinion, this is also such a signal for internal coalitionists in the United Right, for Solidarna Polska, for the Agreement - from the President of Kaczyński for you: as I will, even with the Left, every bill, if I write it interestingly, I will vote. [[Applause]] That's what it looks like, folks. It's politically not for you, I think, too good. Why isn't there a conversation? What Prime Minister Szydło said, I will remind you five years ago: humility, work, moderation, discretion, action, responsibility, and above all listening to citizens - these are the principles that we will follow. No more arrogance of power and no more pride. What happened yesterday was a show of pride and the expansion of arrogance of power before the Sejm and in Novgorodka. [[Applause]] Who went to the protesters? Former Members of the Confederation, former Members of the Polish Coalition. Only Marshal Zgorzelski left the Bureau. They were from the Coalition, too. Very well, there was Dorota Sunday from the Civic Coalition. Marshal Zgorzelski is the only one leaving the Bureau, receiving representatives. Why don't you listen to them? They mostly voted for you. You're lost, everything's falling apart on your head. Do not play these games at the expense of the Polish farmer and the Polish village. 'Cause it's not gonna do any good. And the public hearing? The procedure? PiS has made this Sejm an urgent device to adopt laws for 5 years. Today he makes a machine to grind Polish villages and Polish agriculture. I understand the Left and the Civic Coalition that they have their views on this matter and that they may coincide. But why did you put your hand on this procedure, which means that within 24 hours this bill is to be adopted? We protest together so often that we don't proceed like this. I don't get it at all. In the Senate, it has to be changed. I am counting on 30 days of debate, public hearing in the Senate, hearing agricultural organizations, trade unions, the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, all organisations that are interested, allowing them to attend a committee meeting. We'll keep an eye on it in the Senate because that's what we're there for. The Senate must show that he is different from the Sejm. And here's your chance to correct that mistake. We will not support this law because it is an embargo on Polish agriculture, it is an indictment against the Polish village. This is an act of stupidity that can't be voted for. [[Applause]] We're making adjustments. Andrzej Fungus again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Andrzej Grzyb will conclude his club speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think Mr Gawkowski should say the word'sorry'. What he said: that livestock farmers and those who support them are murderers is not proper treatment of farmers. That's how I understood it. It shouldn't be like this. Farmers do not deserve such epithets. The whole bill doesn't deserve to be taken seriously at all. Yesterday we had a chance to hear the voices of these farmers. Who asked them? Who gave any of them, so to speak, a word of explanation as to why we're doing this bill? Which trade union was asked about this? No. There were also signatories to the agreement with President Duda, including the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, that there would be a community of interests represented by the President. What happened to nobody listening to these people? In 2013 and 2014, when the ritual slaughter ban was introduced, in one district of Krotoszyński almost 55 million farmers lost their price because the price fell by 1/3. 55 million is about what they all receive a year's direct payments, not producers, for example. beef. Ladies and gentlemen, the notified bill (The Bell) - Mr Sawicki spoke about it - has caused prices to fall by about 1 PLN for a week. And what happens when this ban is imposed? What's this supposed to be replaced with? I'll give you an example of Leszek's farmer. For 1 million PLN he built a farm for production last year. He's got 1 million credits and he says, "What am I gonna pay it off if the price drops by 1/3?" Do you know what the price of poultry is right now? 1 kg turkey costs 4 PLN. If you know how to produce, you know how much more weight you have to put in to pay for it. Most of the feed sector, which could be bought out as part of a food holding company, took over external capital, this is no longer a Polish sector. Pini, the company taken over by what capital? Chinese. I mean, you could've reacted here. We also add to this the possibility of putting out parts of animal production. I mean, these people don't want to agree to that. After all, this is a matter of the existence of their families. What does a farmer who has 40 head of cattle say? I mean, he's a 40-piece family supporter. There are many such farmers. I am from Wielkopolska, who understands what animal production is all about. They're the best, so to speak, farms. Many farmers have, for example. dairy farms or dairy farms. What will they do in the future, e.g. with the calves that are going to be born? After all, such a male calf in dairy production is a cost, that's waste. Who's gonna take this up for breeding? So? Are we gonna get rid of these calves? Because milk is to be produced, not meat. These should therefore be reflections, which should be accompanied by public consultations. And we're rhyming a bill that's supposed to take out another department of the economy, and that's in a crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u193	Thank you very much. Three Members will speak on behalf of the Confederate Group: Mr Grzegorz Braun, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz and Mr Robert Winnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u194	God bless all agri-food producers, good hosts, owners, animal keepers! September 17th, memorable date. PiS robs the Polish village [[Applause]] together and in agreement with postkomuna and neoeurokomuna, it destroys Poland, hitting Polish entrepreneurship. A conspiracy of weapons, how can it... Left party. We reject this bad bill, but we make amendments out of procedural caution, and we have already tabled it at the committee's regular meeting. I recommend your gracious attention to the amendment that would guarantee - since you are so concerned about the safety of life - also the safety of human life, abolishing eugenic abortion. [[Applause]] There's no such thing... The Animal Protection Act? Congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u195	There you go, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u196	Whatever your beliefs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Grzegorz Braun, have you ever had any discomfort about your statement when I was in the session? I'm gonna let go of it. Ha, ha, ha! Regardless of belief, there is no reason for such an important law to proceed in such a way, in violation of all customs and procedures of European law. I regret to say that the opposition on the left has legitimised this procedure, taking part in this, not wanting to break the quorum at night when there was a chance, even though some of the Members of the Law and Justice opposed this law. So when it's in your hands, it's breaking procedures, breaking constitutions, breaking good customs doesn't bother you. I appeal more to the Members of the PiS, because here this case is hopeless. I appeal to the PiS Members: get off this leash at last. The President humiliated you with this bill -- really it's a slap -- telling you to take such a left-wing viewpoint, a radical left-wing perspective, like animal empowerment. I don't know, perhaps you recklessly think that you will avoid the further consequences of this position. Once such a position is adopted, you will then be nobled by such arguments, as we have heard here today - to ban pork, raping cows, truth, by milkmen, etc. It's all coming. If you don't think so, then today you've accepted the logic that will soon lead to it. So that I appeal to the Members of the PiS. I hope the vast majority of you know that this is ridiculous what's going on here. Vote according to your conscience, reject this stupid bill. And look at the coalitionists whose votes you want to support, because we know that there won't be a majority in the PiS, there won't be enough of the PiS alone. You will accept this with the voices of people such as Mr Gawkowski, who does not distinguish between people and animals, and at the same time wants to murder unborn people. The murderers of unborn children will defend the lives of animals with you. You don't mind, do you? You think this is the right optics? I appeal: don't do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u197	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, Jarosław Kaczyński gets up or gets up, feeds the cat. I think he treats him well, so he will feed him full-value food, which comes from animal breeding - yes, because cats eat meat - then he will wear leather shoes, leather belt and come here to eliminate Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] This is the state of hypocrisy that you have led this House to. This is a state in which normal economic activity, which the Polish state has been allowing for 100 years, is liquidated day by day in the name of leftist fanaberia. And yesterday you mentioned that there are such standards in many European countries. Will you claim that homosexual relationships are allowed in many European countries the day after tomorrow? Because that's exactly the same logic, that's exactly the same left-wing paradigm. Ladies and gentlemen! Market. It's not just the furriers, the furriers are a small addition. It's about $350,000. Polish livestock farmers, hundreds of thousands of people staying out of poultry. You close the most forward-looking markets before them: 1.5 billions of Muslims, the most dynamic Asian, African markets. We're the power of export, and you're the ones who want to wipe out the pen. Come to your senses. Remember, too, because this is an element of a really fundamental ideological struggle. It really doesn't matter on a moral level if someone's holding... Of course, it is about keeping under the right conditions, under the conditions laid down by the law, the law that you passed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because these animals are being kept by regulations today. Mr. Marshal, there's been an extension before, and I'd like a moment too. The regulations according to which these animals are being kept today were issued by Minister Jurgiel. There's no moral difference between holding a mink in a cage, a hamster... Snake. ...a snake, yes, which eats mice, which you must feed this snake if you hold it. Canary. How absurd and insane. Our friend's got a snake. You're leading to some absurd and insane animal rights issue. And there are two basic ethical issues here. First of all, animals serve man. And whether or not they serve Mr. President, who likes to pet a cat... It's not a cat's idea that he likes to be stroked, it's a president's idea. It's not from nature, it's from human culture. And you can also have the right to wear a belt or animal leather shoes to eat these animals and to grow them for different purposes. And the second ethical requirement, which is being implemented today - if the Polish state managed by you mismanaged it, reform it - is the requirement that animals should not be treated cruelly and in barbaric. And that's what we're for. Every healthy-thinking man behind this. Let the Polish state enforce it. Do not tell us that the Polish state is so weak that it cannot enforce it, and the only thing it can do is eliminate the entire industry, throw tens, hundreds of thousands of people on the pavement, break the backbone of Polish agricultural export. Because it is not only related to cattle breeding, it is also a question of e.g. the production of cereals to which they are fed. Ladies and gentlemen, you are hitting hundreds of thousands of jobs in the countryside. Come to your senses. Disgraceful! Consider this left-wing madness that Jarosław Kaczyński drives you into. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u199	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's where we ended our club appearances. We're going to questioning tour. If any of your fellow Members would like to join, this is the last moment, because we will close the list in a moment. At the same time, I set the time for the question - 1 minute. Please take the floor to ask Mr Marcin Porzuck's question from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The absolute majority of Polish villagers do not want a mink farm in their area. [[Applause]] Bravo! They've talked about it many times. They talked about it by protesting in the village of Trzcianka... What about the pigsty? ...by protesting in the municipality of Pniewy, where the Member - and formally the Member's son - the Civic Platform wanted to set up such a farm. They are definitely against it because minks are not part of the tradition of the Polish village. I want to tell you that I was surprised to see who participated in these protests yesterday. All the media showed one face, one Member who worked here for years, was even on this several-member delegation. And all you have to do is look at the not so old account of one of the portals - it was an absolute enemy of the mink farm. Ladies and gentlemen, during the meeting organized in Lipianów, Krzysztof Boguszewski did not spare Mayor Krzysztof Boguszewski the words of criticism for his decision on the conditions of construction for the mink farm in Miedzyń. I quote behind this portal: What you have done is revenge to heaven. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're the one who signed the letter. You're welcome, Marshal, just a moment more. I hate to say it, but were you blind? I can't understand any self-government who makes such a decision for this kind of breeding. People, don't you have children, grandchildren, to go to your own nest, apologize... ugly word. It can't be in your head. I'm sorry for the excitement, but if my mayor had done something like this, I wouldn't have vouch for myself," says Renata. Renata Beger finally wished Mayor Lipian 200 years of his life in the stench. These are the ones who protested yesterday, and just a little while earlier they were against minks and other elements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u201	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. You have to ask Father Rydzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u202	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have no delusions by listening to this debate, extremely ideological of the Confederation - Immanuel Kant was right, saying that we judge a man by the way he treats animals, unambiguously. And there are no ideal coalitions. There is simply a coalition of people who love animals, empathetic people, people who want to transfer reality in Poland to a different dimension, the dimension of animal protection. It's us. Is the chain bothering you to take him out? Or a barbecue that hurts dogs? No. You voted against these amendments. Do you have a problem with brutal ritual slaughter? Does it bother you to introduce full compensation for all industries that we restrict (the bell) or in this act we remove? Why did you vote against? Are you bothered by the suffering of horses that die, dying in great suffering on the way to the Sea Eye? You should accept these amendments and move Poland to a completely different dimension, the dimension of love, empathy to animals, because we also owe it to future generations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u203	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left. There isn't? So I would ask you to ask Jarosław Sachaika, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the right-wing politicians why they did not accept the only comprehensive amendment, the amendment I tabled tonight to end the suffering of homeless animals. Why didn't you agree to chip cats and dogs? Why haven't you done anything about it for five years and let these animals freeze in the winter and fall under the wheels of cars? Enough of this suffering. Why do you allow the budgets of cities and municipalities to be drained to protect animals? At the same time, this giant money doesn't give anything, homelessness grows. The only rational solution is to chip and sterilize cats and dogs. Why are you just saying they love these animals and they don't do anything about it? There is an amendment of the Polish Coalition. I appeal to you. It really is the only solution possible for us to end this tragedy that is happening in the Polish countryside and in Polish cities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u205	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u206	Do you know what you voted for on the committee? Do you know what you supported? What did you report? According to this bill, if you're gonna get your beloved bitch puppies, she's gonna have like four puppies, which is cute, and she's gonna live in a pen... About the snake, about the snake. You've established a standard of nine m2 for a bitch. Ha, ha, ha! That's the kind of stuff you guys do here. This is amok. You're dangerous because it's still at the anecdote level today, but tomorrow it's gonna be at the Bolshevik level. You despise the property, freedom, work of Poles, because most of you (the bell) in life with honest work did not persist, because most of you live from nursery to headstone on the state, because most of you do not plow, literally or figuratively, in life. Eagle. That is why it comes so lightly to you local, regional and Warsaw officials, the capital, throwing away the achievements of generations into the trash and to humiliate people who simply dare to be at home, on their own, continue the tradition of fathers, grandparents. Shame on you. [[Applause]] What about Braun's snake?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u207	The question will be asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant whether this law is very well and strongly consulted with Minister for Agriculture Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. [[Applause]] There is a very big gap in the view of this law. My question is: Isn't Minister Ardanowski, so much supported in the countryside, underestimated by you? Did you leave with this initiative against the Minister? When it comes to subsidies in agriculture and saying that it adds to the fur industry, it adds to everything in agriculture all over the world, because it is a specific business. After all, we have won the highest possible amounts of aid in the Union. Who? We want to increase the amount of subsidies for Polish farmers, we want them to get more money from Brussels. You can't say that if something's not profitable and it pays off, it's got to be closed. Solidarna Polska and the Agreement make amendments at this stage, during the second reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The amendments concern the entry of pro-animal organisations into holdings, the aim being to remove those records of organisations from the pro-cedated rules so that they cannot enter the holdings. We also recommend that you extend to 10 years vacathio legis and from 6 months to 3 years - time to adjust the pens, adjust all issues related to harnesses, pens. And that's the conclusion. If politicians loved unborn children as much as they love animals, this country, this world would be more beautiful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u209	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This angry opposition of the Confederate Members to the protection of animal rights is unlikely. They say, quote, we're driving animal rights insane. Dear Members of the Confederation, Our sensitivity to the pain of others is the measure of our humanity. Remember that. I will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. Animal farms in fur cages must be eliminated. It's cruel to make money out of the suffering of others. We are in favour of banning dog earrings, keeping them chained up, using animals in circuses for human entertainment. I would like to ask Mr Kaczyński - it is a pity that he is not here - whether this time PiS will not give in to Director Rydzyk, as in 2017, and support the adoption of this law prohibiting the execution of animals and protecting them from suffering. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u211	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u212	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, the Left thanked hundreds of thousands of volunteers, the social community, who spend their free time, money and energy on a daily basis supporting NGOs fighting for animal rights. This hall applauded with quite a thunderous applause. So I ask you, what happened at the committee meeting yesterday? All the amendments that have strengthened the position of pro-animal organisations have been dropped. That's not true. We have tabled amendments to ensure that the court adjudicates on non-governmental organisations that have animal protection in their statutes, and we have asked them to be accepted. Ecoormists. We have tabled an amendment which gave pro-animal organisations the power of a public prosecutor, because it is necessary to strengthen the procedural position of such organisations. These are people who spend their time, their energy and their heart on a daily basis to those whom the state does not want to take care of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't be afraid of NGOs. Who are you afraid of? Thieves... Yeah, they're thieves. Yeah, they're thieves. No, no, they're not thieves... Then say out loud that they're animal thieves.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u213	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u214	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! While we are all here in this room, we are sensitive to the suffering of animals, to the conditions of their maintenance, but maybe we should vote together in favour of it being the Veterinary Inspection - maybe it is necessary to equip them with jobs, to appoint properly prepared people - to check these conditions of keeping animals. Today, due to bioinsurance, not everyone can enter the farm because if the farmer does not meet the bioinsurance requirements, his breeding can be closed. In the meantime, today we want to let people who want to go into a particular farm completely random. I have a question for the Members of the PiS. You're so eager to let these controlling people into the farm, and yesterday, in order to get to you in Novgorod, we had to deal with the police for a long time. Ha, ha, ha! The police cordon was making sure no one else got in and checked what was going on out there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u215	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you if you realize that this isn't even about money, industry or jobs, it's about civilization. Our European civilization was built by people who could kill an animal, if necessary in our defense they could kill a man, by people who could fight. But here I hear people who are guided by the heart, not by reason. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there is a political book that talks about what it ends with. The book is titled "King Maciej" and it is worth reading it to know what it ends with. [[Applause]] Of course, we fight for women's rights, including women's rights. Women's right to wear fur does not mean that they can be guided by the heart and impose on people the fight against normality. The Confederation is a party of the right and we are fighting for... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't even kill a murderer - we've abolished the death penalty - and if they kill him in America, it's not to hurt him. You guys have that soft heart. It's just that it ends tragically. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u217	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Suski, Law and Justice. Is the applicant asking himself a question? He's gonna ask himself a question? That's good. Who's gonna answer? It's called hamletizing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make the amendments that I had announced during my speech. These are amendments which restore the ban on ritual slaughter and give equivalent for lost benefits. They also say that NGOs, as I said, will be able to control and, in gross cases, pick up an animal, but with an assistant to the police. Disgraceful! Traitors of the village. If the police or the official who will be there considers that this is not justified, such control will not take place and the costs will be borne by those who ordered it unjustly in case of unjustified control. In the event of proper control, of course, those who caused it will carry it. I would like to make a request to move to the third reading of the bill amending the Animal Protection Act without referring to the committee amendments and proposals submitted to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u219	Thank you very much. It's against the law. Cannot be asked in question mode. You can, you can. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's certainly a good bill and a necessary bill, but I have two comments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 It is written: It is forbidden to keep pet animals trapped in a permanent manner. And further: Temporary keeping of pet animals trapped is allowed on a trap of a minimum length of 6 m, ensuring that the animal uses a runway of at least 20 m2 And one more thing. The lack of consent to the amendment mentioned earlier concerning the ban on the use of horses on the Sea Eye route is a really big granda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u221	Thank you very much. I would like to make sure that Mr Grzegorz Braun objects to the proposal. I've filed a counterclaim. Yeah, I get it. Okay, thank you. Then you may sit down. The motion is still there, we're guessing the reasons. I'd like to justify it. The High House is curious about my justification. The Member may justify it within 30 seconds. This is where a friend of mine asked for a snake, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I am not giving you the floor on the snake, but on the grounds of opposition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u222	This bill has to go back to work in committee because our procedure actually lasted during these night hours. It didn't suit our idea of parliamentary work. A friend of mine asked about the snake. In your bill there is a category: the height of the animal in the ball, depending on what this meter in the pen depends on. And there's a problem, how much snake has in it if it folds or doesn't. And that's what we need to figure out at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] But that's your snake's problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u223	Thank you very much. In view of Mr Grzegorz Braun's opposition, we will settle this issue in the voting block. I would like to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Suski spoke today about the introduction of an amendment on pensions for working dogs exempt from service. Today in the Polish Police, the army, the border service works 5 thousand. Special dogs, service dogs, drug-detectors, explosives, supporting anti-terrorist activities. Do applicants realise that now those dogs for which pensions will be introduced will not be able to purchase the services if point 10a in Article. 1 will remain unchanged if the definition of a race dog remains unchanged, which sanctions the monopoly of one private association from which only 1% have been purchased in the last 6 years. Dogs? Why? Because they did not meet high mental and health requirements. Now this only association will become a monopolist, and Polish services will probably be the only country without special working dogs. Are applicants aware of this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why weren't dog and cat definitions designed in the same way? What was the key to selecting the associations mentioned in these definitions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u225	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So it doesn't feel like I don't have an empathy for animals. I used to be their producer myself. I've never had animals trapped in my house. They were always single, running, especially dogs. I've got, like, 9 or 11 cats, and they're still coming from the neighbors. The wife feeds the incoming fox. In winter, pheasants are fed, deer. To make it sound like we're not against animals. We take care of their well-being, including farm animals. However, I have a question: How is it that we are to run an economy that is supposed to eliminate the diseases that have been brought to us, such as the ASF? After all, man is the greatest source and vector in all these diseases. And all of a sudden we say that social organisations, civil society organisations will have the right to enter a farm where production is in order to control animal welfare. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that the Veterinary Inspection as the official control body responsible for this should have the right to do so. But all bystanders, while respecting civil organisations, may be informants on the fact that something is going on, but inspections should be carried out by official control bodies such as veterinary inspections. And we are now introducing regulations that will cause great chaos. And we will also cause great hatred for the sector of non-governmental organisations, which have great respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u227	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All of Poland's agricultural organizations are crushing this project. They're killing this project and talking about the betrayal of the village by the PiS. Not just breeding unions, all agricultural organizations have been saying that they've wanted to discuss animal welfare conditions for years. The only problem is that you didn't build it. a serious country, because a serious state does not solve such problems a few days after a report in one of the media with foreign capital, Mr. This is not a serious country that reacts, as Onet writes an article, and puts everyone on guard, and eliminates the industry. This is not a serious country, this is not a serious approach. Stop this bill, sit down with industry representatives, farmers, farmers and you on the left, and you on the left. [[Applause]] Sit down, talk to the breeders, talk to the industry, talk to the farmers. Make the right plan, do it in human terms, do it as normal (the bell) as serious states do, as economic planning is done in Germany or in other countries that are successful in economics. Time. And one last thing, Mr. Marshal, that needs to be said here. The farm will be destroyed in Poland, there will be huge losses in cattle, poultry, fur animals as well. But that does not mean that there will be no demand for fur in China and other Asian countries. This does not mean that the Muslim market will cease to grow in the world, this breeding will move to other countries. Do you know what countries? For those countries where there are no high standards of animal welfare and high standards for animal welfare. The consequence of what you're doing will be that breeding will increase in countries that grossly break the issue of animal welfare. It'll be the result of your politics, and it's gonna cost the animals the most. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u229	The question will now be asked by Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice. If he is absent from the Chamber, I ask Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition. Is that a reflection on the side of the PiS? There isn't any either. So is Katarzyna Kretkowska in the Chamber? There it is. You're welcome, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u230	I address the members of the Confederation who refer in their speeches, disgusting speeches, national traditions and Catholicism. Perhaps it is worth reminding you that ritual slaughter was banned in Poland before World War II. By who? Through the Left. And it was an initiative of Catholic and national environments. And the first person who started a discussion at the beginning of the 20th century on the ban on slaughter, and was the most active in this regard, was the priest, Fr. Stanisław Trzejak. And a group of members of the sanation... Left... Don't yell at me, Mr. Bosak. Mr Bosak, let the honourable Member speak calmly. He had a mutation. Ha, ha, ha! And in 1936, a group of Members introduced a project (The Bell), which passed in the Seym in 1939... I'm asking for more time because this young man was bothering me. It was only in 1997 that ritual slaughter in Poland was restored for 15 years, after which it was banned, and the ban was lifted by the Constitutional Tribunal. During ritual slaughter, the animal must not be stunned. Maybe. The animal cannot be stunned because then it is not a ritual slaughter. That's not true. No, I can't... But now we will not start a seminar on whether an animal can be stunned or not. Okay, I'll just finish up. This isn't a seminar, this is a scientific fact. What's the question? We're glad you value the Fr. Third. Stop it, culture. Yes, I appreciate the Fr. A third for what he did for animals, and I value the ban imposed in 1939 by national and Catholic environments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u231	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland. Correct, Marshal. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz goes to the speaker. There was no name. Your name was not used, Mr Bosak was used. A corrigendum or a question. Members' statements are today. It will be. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As a member of the coalition of the Polish Union of European Democrats yesterday I was against rejecting this bill at first reading, this bill, because one was a motion to reject it at first reading, but also against moving to instantly proceding over it on the agricultural committee, instantly, at night, sloppyly, without taking into account many reasonable amendments. And indeed, intuition has not failed, because what came out of this committee is an eraser, a bubble, an eraser of what should be a well-established law. And I would like to ask, on behalf of the beekeepers' community, why Members who were involved in this law yesterday, applicants, also do not want to include the issue of proper care in animal welfare, care that these beneficial insects are not poisoned during spraying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I form this question on behalf of beekeepers from Lower Silesia and more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Beautiful.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u233	Mr Robert Winnicki wishes to make a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for a break because I believe that the High House should cool down a bit, and, above all, it is a surprise to me that the Left Member refers to Fr. Dr. Stanisława Trzejak, who wrote very interesting things in the interwar 20th anniversary. Among these interesting things were among others. such items as the Goy Talmud and the Jewish issue in Poland, the program of world Jewish politics (conspiracy and deconspiracy)... We recommend it. We especially recommend it. Talmud, Bolshevism and the marriage law project in Poland. This is the authority that you have just referred to as the Member of the Left. [[Applause]] I wanted to say this: the Member is right... These are your authorities. ...that in the 20th anniversary of the interwar nation, Catholics opposed ritual slaughter. But let me say this: every political movement, I am directing it today, September 17th, to the Left, should reflect on the changing times, ladies and gentlemen. The national camp had such reflection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We wish her well, too, because you can't see it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u235	Thank you. The question will be asked by Artur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u236	Thank you, Marshal. First of all, I wanted to address the messenger from the Left. Krzysztof Bosak is two months younger than me, and no one says to me long ago: young man. I'm so jealous of him. It's worth thinking about. Really. I'm waiting for this moment. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to say it to Jarosław Kaczyński, although he's not in the O.R., but his ears are here, his eyes are even two left hands. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a dog, I love dogs. Jarosław Kaczyński is a cat, he loves and loves cats. Honestly, people who love dogs, cats, they have different kinds of animals, they have a completely different sensitivity. I, too, have a completely different sensitivity to these kinds of topics, and I see it differently. If we want to change the world, I imagine it in such a way that we can reduce the demand for these disgusting furs that we fight so terribly. There is something called the Polish National Foundation, which jerks millions of zlotys from companies of the State Treasury (The Bell) on its activity. Nobody really knows what she's doing, but she could be. carry out a big foreign campaign that wearing fur is passé and Poland is a fur-free zone. How? The kind of marketing a country that could change the world. You could order something like this, but absolutely not the liquidation of the entire industry. First, we have to adopt this bill so that we can... Thank you for the hint.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u237	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u238	High Seym! About an hour. 3.48 The amendment, amendment 12 in the Animal Protection Act, fell out during the committee's work. This amendment said that we would limit ritual slaughter only to the needs of religious communities that we have in Poland. Praise God, the PiS wants to bring her back. I trust he's speaking frankly because there are a number of records that limit the suffering of animals slaughtered ritually. Now the question to all of us, to applicants also: Why do we not have the courage to call ritual slaughter as it is called, but we use euphemism: slaughter without stunning. That is, slaughter by slitting the throat and bleeding out, without being deprived of consciousness, which is most inhumane (The Bell) and causes animals to be subjected to hard-to-imaginable torments. This is from the justification of this project, and then there's a 1.5 page description so drastic that I wouldn't dare quote it here. Question: "Why can we not use words that correspond to the truth in this change of consciousness?" The slaughter provided for by religious rites. That's where the change has to start. It's true that we're a species at the top of a food pyramid. It won't be long now. It is also true that we are culturally conditioned from ancient times, but a change in language can change our attitude to unnecessary suffering of animals, because unnecessary suffering of animals remains unnecessary suffering. I am sure that if someone is religious, he knows that our common Creator is absolutely not pleased. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u239	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left. You even ate it. Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Aside from caring for animals, we should be made. And caring for people, too. We have not cared for people, including villagers, who live in the vicinity of animal farms, such as: Like minks. They live in filth and dirt. Their family meals look like this - they live in the company of flies. They can't drink a glass of tea because it's a mess. Welcome to Białczyk, to Pyrzan, to Witnica. These people won't even move out because the value of their property has dropped to zero. They're not gonna sell their homes because you can't live there, you can't live there. Making money out of animal suffering is also making money out of the suffering of people who live near these farms. I know there are people in this room who like suffering. who voted against it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To isolate the perpetrators from the victims of violence. They like the tiredness of women, children, they like the tiredness of animals. Enough of this cruelty. The Polish farmer cares about his animals, breeders live from the suffering of animals, breeders of fur animals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u241	The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u242	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You've shown a real face, ladies and gentlemen of the applicant. You betrayed the Polish village. This debate is watched by Poles, but also by those farmers who once invested, believed, let themselves be persuaded, and today they tremble what they will do the next day. This is not important to you. It doesn't matter to you what we do with poultry or fish waste. It's not important. There's something else that's important to you. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen. Because today French farmers are waiting for this decision. The question is, did you take the money for it? That's a good question. Because they're going to grow, ladies and gentlemen, they're going to grow. [[Applause]] You said, ladies and gentlemen, that under worse conditions they would be bred perhaps elsewhere, beyond the eastern border, fur animals. We could do this in civilized terms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will have a clear conscience because it will not be in Poland. Shame on you, ladies and gentlemen, that in times of crisis you slaughter the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u243	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u244	Yesterday's committee work was really like trying to calm the crazy man running around with a safety grenade, so there's a lot of questions and there's a lot of underdogs in what you've done. I probably won't be able to ask all the questions, but I'll try. Humanitarianism, above all. Do you know what that word means? Do you have the courage to reach for the dictionary? Humane treatment of animals is a square of a circle. Humanitarian means right for people. The minks are wild until they escape the farm, because when they escape the farm, they suddenly become a threat to the environment. I mean, they're bad in breeding and the woods are bad. What kind of antinorrhism is this here anyway? We're shutting down circuses because I understand the Sejm hates competition. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But at the same time there was a hypocritical discussion about the fact that minicotines in dolphinariums should be allowed. I understand that the same scientists who have examined that watching the tiger jump through the rim [[♪ The bell ♪]] They think watching dolphins jump through the hoop is okay. Do you plan to grant election rights to animals as well? Because I think that's the only thing that can keep the Left from repeating Robert Biedron's score after Mr. Gawkowski here called all the farmers murderers and degenerates. My time is up. I'd still have a lot of questions. E.g. If the farms are non-organic and they're recycling the waste, are they sure they're non-organic and who's really non-organic? Thank you. Mr. Marshal... it's what it's like...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u245	President Gawkowski felt called to the board.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u246	I would very much like to ask you and your fellow Members to be reasonable in this debate. Look who's talking. We're talking, and I was talking here about respecting animals, so we have a sense of responsibility, and no one insults farmers. If you need so much to talk about who insults whom, I'd like to wish you a little reading of the transcripts of the Sejm meeting. You will know very well that you are leaders in insulting the epithets of Members, Messengers, and coveting this speech of hatred here. ...brown puppets. Who said that yesterday? Remember? I would very much ask you to try - but convince yourself with arguments. 'Cause we speak merity, and you speak rudeness and vulgarity, and that shouldn't happen in this room. Thank you very much. Brown puppets in the benches...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u247	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Animal breeding for fur is meaningless violence. This is violence against both animals and people who live near farms. Violence that does not even have economic justification because the fur industry is responsible for 0.08% GDP and 0.16% Polish export. How much do you make out of this? Only 2.6% breeding is in good financial condition. There is also no reason for animals killed for meat to suffer more than is absolutely necessary these days. With possible economic costs - here the question to the applicants, project rapporteurs - will have to deal with the government. The question is how to protect workers and employers. But the question remains whether the applicant, or whether the majority of the Sejm will agree to the proposal to prohibit the keeping of pet animals in prison, which is totally pointless for animals to be kept in such a way as to prevent the use of barbecues in animals, as well as (The bell) the question whether we will finally bend over the arrangements for creating asylums for animals that have been confiscated... It's a shame you weren't on the committee. You wouldn't ask questions like that. ...animals that are probably going to have to hit some of the circuses that are currently being eliminated. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u249	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question to the Minister regarding the position of the Polish Cynological Union, which draws attention to the definition of breeding of breed dogs in Poland as amended by the Act. I would like to point out that the Left tabled an amendment which would regulate the situation concerning breeding of breed dogs in Poland in such a way that the interests of all organizations would be combined. At the moment, by choosing only one organization, we can lead to a situation where the credibility of the certificates given to race dogs will be even more problematic. On this matter the position of the Polish Cynological Union was sent to Members of Parliament and Members yesterday. I would ask very much, Minister, for an answer in writing on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u251	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I must say with regret as a villager and a descendant of farmers that I am probably some bloodsucker, a vampire, because I have sometimes killed an animal for consumption, I like black, I like a tartar, which is as if it is an unhealthy phenomenon within the meaning of many of my fellow Members, Members. To put it this way: I am primarily here in the care of Polish agriculture, because cleverly under the fur industry you have raised all other issues related to the slaughter of Polish agriculture. And I have two basic questions: Will there be measures to strengthen, above all, veterinary and veterinary services that should be concerned about animal safety? Second: What are we going to cover for the losses that will arise in agriculture, which will arise in Poland's budget, because this is about 10 billion, which we will suddenly run out of? Besides, who's gonna help farmers who have to pay their loans and whose holdings day by day? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are they gonna lose their livelihood? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u253	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u254	Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening today in this House is a hybrid war against Polish agriculture, a hybrid war against the Polish meat industry. Against the Confederacy. People are shocked by what PiS has proposed, shocked by the style of pushing these recipes after night, but most of all, shocked are all the people in these industries. They're watching us right now, meat industry people, farm people... You're insulting human intelligence. ...farmers representing all chambers of industry because they were not invited at all to express their opinion, to share arguments. And this is a real, big scandal. You can push different ethical views, different political views, but not even give your arguments to representatives of industry organizations to try to do it within 3 days on the basis of manipulated public research and manipulated media materials? It is simply a disgraceful, gangster practice that should never have acceptance in the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you push through this law, if you push the destruction of three Polish export sectors: meat exports to Muslim markets, meat exports to Jewish markets and fur exports, if you destabilize the destabilised meat price market in Poland, you will be responsible not only for political, not only moral, but also for this. In my view, you should all be Members of the PiS who vote for this - I do not mention the Left, you as Members of the PiS who vote for this - accounted for the diversion against Polish breeding, Polish agriculture and the Polish meat industry. People are asking if any lobbyists are hanging around the government that got it done. They can't believe it's just stupid what you're doing. Confederation. Again, I appeal to you to come to your senses while you're at it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u255	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Anisko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Green Party, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have come to a point where the situation of animals in Poland will, I hope, radically change. It was a long and difficult way for all of us, but as it turned out, when it comes to these most important fundamental issues, it is possible to reach agreement over political divisions. Coalition, coalition. Yesterday we had a curiosity situation when in the atmosphere of scandalous chase and demagogy at the committee meeting when the ritual slaughter records were decided, the hand shook much of the United Right's representation and this amendment disappeared. I hope that this mistake will be corrected today. I would like to assure (the bell) of Members of the United Right that today Poles, Poles do not want ritual slaughter in our country. So that I encourage you to make a bold decision and to stand on the right side. Thank you. They do not want the ritual slaughter of Polish agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u257	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Maciej Necessary, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is absolutely no justification for the continuation of the fur industry, animal breeding for fur in Poland. Here on one side we have a whole life of unimaginable torture, unjustified cruelty to animals, and on the other side we have a marginal industry, few workers, jobs of very low quality, and it's all in the name of a fanaber, a fur-wearing fanaber. Really, if we weigh these two things, if in fact all these assurances that everyone cares about the welfare of animals, we want to take it seriously, in this particular case we have a fur-wearing fantasy, a few hundred jobs and a marginal industry, and on the other we have unimaginable cruelty. So at least in this one case let's all agree - I also appeal to PSL - in this one case Let's have no doubt. If animal welfare means anything to us, then the furry industry continues, the mink farm in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is absolutely no justification, and we have to stop this right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u259	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u260	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the bill is a smoke screen designed to divert attention from conflicts, wars in the camp of the United Right. It's just weird that you guys didn't figure it out in all of this, you know, friends from the opposition. However, I think that slowly and to you, the way in which this law is being proceded and the content of this law is far from seeking to improve the protection of animals. And I'll give you two proofs. If PiS really wanted to improve the living conditions of animals, there would be no absurdity about the surface of the pen, only the issue of chipping animals, cats and dogs, the issue of mandatory sterilization. What would we do then? That there wouldn't be shelters, because there wouldn't be any need. And second proof of absurdity. How can one say in this House (The Bell) that this law applies only to fur animals? Clou of this law is the annihilation of the Polish meat industry when it comes to poultry and cattle farming. Finally, the question with a view to those Members of the United Rights and some Members of the opposition who have not read this law to the end and are focusing only on fur animals. I am addressing the question to the Ministry of Agriculture and ask for a written reply, which I will make available to all my colleagues who do not believe what this law is all about. Please calculate what last year's size of breeding of Polish poultry looks like, what is the value of estimated sales in this field, what is the quantity of beef living produced and how much live we export. I think that then it will be easier to understand in this House what this law is really about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u261	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u262	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is still possible - and I also look at Mr Marek Suski - to make the five animals a six for animals. The idea is to create a real tool to combat the homelessness of animals. The whole world, the European Union has one way to do this - marked dogs with a small chip. Central register of marked animals, central register of shelters - that's what we proposed. I would like to ask you, but also the Minister, why the majority with the participation of the PiS rejected our amendment on animal labelling. Finding the owner of the animal, tracking it, identifying the abandoned animals, identifying the animals affected by road events - all of this is a common goal. This should be the sixth point we should vote on together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We call on you to support our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u263	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Nothing justifies the suffering of living beings: neither economic interests nor religious beliefs. There's no excuse for that. Therefore, as you already know, because this is emphasized by many of our fellow Members, the Left supports these solutions which are proposed today by the Law and Justice. My question, however, is why we are limited to a certain group of animals. Why do wild animals deserve more attention from the rulers than farm animals? When are we finally gonna take care of the cage? We have thousands, hundreds of thousands of animals that are now... Did you hear that? ...bred in terrible conditions. Canaries. This is the suffering we're not talking about here, which we should be talking about. No snake breeding will be allowed. At the moment, the industrial breeding of animals is simply a shame. The conditions under which animals live in this farm should be long ended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, my question is: When will it be time to raise the cage and end it? Thank you. [[Applause]] Goldfish...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u265	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Sawicki, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask the representatives of the PiS why you're so confused. Because I was convinced that at the agricultural committee's meeting you were consciously abandoning the destruction of ritual slaughter. It turns out that it is not that you are restoring that the value of exports, which in 2017 amounted to PLN 7 billion, does not matter to you that the value of exports today, in 2020, may exceed even PLN 10 billion. It doesn't matter to you. Today the Germans have ASF, they were a great export of pigs to the Chinese market. This pig will be on the European market. The prices of pork fall on the head. At the moment, beef prices are falling. The prices of poultry are falling. What do you say to Polish farmers? And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, you're closing the farm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] fur animals and ritual slaughter because you can't handle veterinary inspection when it comes to surveillance. Well, if you can't handle veterinary inspection when it comes to surveillance, and you're eliminating animal breeding, neither can you with health care. What do you suggest we eliminate in this situation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will now be asked by Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u268	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will consistently convince everyone in this room to ban the use of horses on the way to the Sea Eye. [[Applause]] Why not on other roads? In the 1990s, the Tatra guides, the TOPR rescuers, informed about the fallen horses and said that something had to be done about it. We've all seen pictures, movies. I think everyone's sensitive in their own way, and I don't think I have to convince anymore. Mrs Bakery and I had an interpellation on this issue in June. To this day, there is no answer. But I think it might connect us. If you're thinking about protecting animals, then we can do something good for these horses. There is a song by Maryla Rodowicz, a text written to him by Agnieszka Osiecka, only horses, only horses, only horses regret. Don't you feel sorry for me? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you feel sorry for the horses dying, dying in agony? I urge you to support this because we can do something good together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u269	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u270	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have only one question, but it is very important - to one person: President Kaczyński. Mr. President! Are you willing and determined enough to implement the Animal Protection Act by the Sejm? Chief, lead the way. Chief, lead the way. Will you resist the various lobbies, especially from your own group, which you have plenty of? Or is the discussion of this project only used to cover the parallel shameful law on the impunity of your officials? Will this act come into force this time, or will it be as it was before? Or maybe she'll be sent to the freezer or changed so you won't even know her? I'll tell you this: if this bill doesn't come into force now, you'll compromise yourself once and for all as an animal defender. I'm not looking for a written answer, I'm looking for a fulfillment of my own promises. Thank you. Then we won't love Kaczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u271	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Urszula Pasławska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u272	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant, on behalf of entrepreneurs, on behalf of farmers. What laws are you working on now, and what other sectors of the Polish economy are you planning to eliminate? It's worth knowing. [[Applause]] because you can see that this agreement over the divisions of the PO, the PiS and the Left is able to push through many laws. I ignore the fact that the liquidation of any industry during the economic crisis is an anti-Polish action. I would also like to draw the attention of the Civic Platform and the Left. You often refer to the rule of law. Adam Bodnar, still acting ombudsman, clearly points out that a law which does not have an adequate vacathio legis, which does not contain a system of compensation, compensation for entrepreneurs, is incompatible with the rule of law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for you: Where is your common sense? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u273	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, the Civic Coalition. If he is not in the Chamber, the question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u274	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is the most important debate for a long time on rural and agricultural matters, and neither the Minister nor his deputy are present. I'm overlooking the fact that there's no one who's turned all this on and started this storm, but that's out of the question. Ladies and gentlemen! For all those who really care about the protection of animals, this PiS-owska law is not satisfactory, because it does not deal with all the most important matters concerning this protection, matters related to shelters and their financing, and the chipping and sterilization of abandoned unwanted animals. She doesn't solve these problems. Nor does it solve the pathological problems of breeding exotic animals. We've got news that the neighbor in the block behind the wall is holding an anaconda and two pythons. This bill does not deal with these matters, but it specifically deals with others. PiS is 15 m2 Don't tell me. PiS can also handle the poultry industry. For 30 years the Polish farmer worked hard to make Poland a world leader in poultry farming, and here comes out at the press conference young PiS-owiec and says: we are done with this business. This is how the Polish village is treated. Scandal! After the poultry industry, the feed industry will be eliminated. This will also be affected by those who live from the cultivation of cereals. All agriculture will suffer on this PiS bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u275	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I'm glad the cruel, bloody fur breeding industry is closed. This industry is indeed suffering for animals, but also suffering for people who live right next to such farms. At the same time, I consider it a big mistake for the initiators of this law to decide that they have not decided to open up a conversation about compensation, about how to compensate people for the fact that they often lose their life's achievements, that they have indebted themselves to build these farms. It's a matter of survival. It's also about hiring people who work there. That is why I do not understand why the amendments of the Civic Coalition that we tabled at the agricultural committee were rejected. I don't understand why we haven't discussed how to compensate for the losses that will arise. This is a serious discussion. So for animal welfare, so for solutions that will improve the life of animals in Poland, but not (the bell) for lawlessness, not for leaving people without help.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u277	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u278	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a rhetorical question. Even the Minister... You are not president, and I have a question for you, President Jarosław Kaczyński. Mr President, how did you manage to convince the Civic Platform Club and the Left Club to ignore the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of Professor Rzepliński's time and ignore the article. 53 constitutions? [[Applause]] This is unbelievable, what happened today on the left side of this tribune, which praised the reprehensible, angry anti-Semitic activity of Fr. The third one before the war and called for a ban on ritual slaughter, which is guaranteed in our constitution in the article. 53 and confirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This was mentioned by Mrs Kretkowska, a Member of the Left, who was once a member of the Freedom Union. Sleep. Tadeusz Mazowiecki in his grave falls over when he hears such statements. And so is my father. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not to mention how this affects international relations with the Arab world and the Jewish world. I don't think the Platform and Left Members are aware of that. I very much regret that Mr.Michał Szczerba left the room suddenly because I am asking and asking for an immediate assembly of the Polish-Israeli group to discuss these matters. [[Applause]] Praising anti-Semites Fr. The third from the Seym tribune is unacceptable. It's gonna have terrible consequences for our foreign policy, it's gonna ruin our business. Someone suddenly sees that the constitution is good when it likes certain articles. The ones he doesn't like can be removed with impunity. There's no permission to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u279	Thank you very much. In corrigendum mode. No, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska and please respect... I wanted to claim the good name of Professor Threeak's outstanding researcher. As I said before, we will not start a seminar on the activity of Fr. Third. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Maria Bakerska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! First of all, I wish you all the best for your birthday and much, much health. [[Applause]] Happy birthday! Thank you very much. There have been many bad words today about non-governmental organisations whose statutory objective is to protect animals. And this is thanks to these organizations and thanks to the article. 7 in the Animal Protection Act, thousands of animals were saved that would simply die because they were starved, beaten, neglected. This is not a self-will, as some say, it is not an animal theft, because every time it is the decision of the governor, the mayor or the president to pick up the animal. That decision can be appealed against. The animal received - because a case is often taken, a criminal case is being conducted - is evidence in the case, so you cannot destroy evidence in the case, nor can you refuse to issue it, because it is a crime. So don't tell me you're not telling the truth. By moving on to the bill, I really strongly urge you to accept the amendment of the Civic Coalition (The Bell) concerning the chipping of animals. This is an extremely important method of countering, one of the many methods of countering the homelessness of animals. So that I strongly appeal for it. There's one more thing. Yesterday at the committee meeting was a really gigantic mess, and I fear that in this mess related to the work - which was certainly not the intention of the projectors - there was a record that could eliminate the cynological shows at all, in the sense of agility shows, such demonstrations. In my opinion, then, we need to look at this very carefully again. Another question - this is more of a question to the government. The government. There's a question for the government. Thank you. Namely, it is about animal asylum. The government has committed itself before the pandemic to prepare the relevant legislation. It's very important for animals with seizures. And now, because in these two projects there was a question of circuses, i.e. excluding the possibility of performing animals in circuses, it will be necessary to transfer these animals to a specific place. These asylums are really going to be extremely important right now. So it's worth just leaning on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u281	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech the King, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, Members of this House will have to vote in favour of suffering or against animal suffering. So let's not extend the chains, let's stop them, just like slaughter. ritual or the use of animals in circuses. It's the 21st century, and it can't be allowed to make money out of animal suffering. Therefore, each of us in the vote should ask himself whether he is in favour of suffering or against animal suffering. The exploitation is immoral. I have a question - together with the opposition - for the parliamentary majority: When will we get to the drafting of statutory standards to prevent the homelessness of animals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u283	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition. If he is not in the Chamber, I would ask Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u284	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There's an argument in the courtroom that we want to change the world with this project. Well, it's the 21st century, and the reality is that it's the world that's changing in front of you. Known world brands withdraw fur from the collection. The demand's falling. Polish fur exports dropped by 40%, prices dropped by 25%. After all, you are aware that this is an end-of-the-line business. If you support entrepreneurs and want to help them, vote in favour of amendments that will allow checks for workers who will allow them to pay compensation. Why should we listen to the mockery of the Confederates at this meeting and in the plenary room and at the committee meeting, to hear the story of Mr Braun's snake, the crickets of Mr Kulesza? Spiders. Come on. This isn't a discussion about your personal tastes. We are talking here about legal mechanisms (the bell) to support the protection of animal rights. Why do you have such a great need to prove your superiority over animals, and you want to show that you can kill them for fun while hunting or carry them around your neck? Why would you want to tie an animal to a chain when it's already in the pen? Is that incomprehensible? Why don't you let the animals chip and keep a register of these animals? After all, this directly affects the fact that the level of homelessness of animals is decreasing. That's fascism. Warsaw is a very good example of its activities. I hope you will finally see that the world in front of you is changing and you will no longer be blinded by business, business and money. Thank you. [[Applause]] It's gonna lead to chipping a man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki will now ask the question, he is a member of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret that there is no Minister Ardanowski, but there is an applicant Member. I wanted to ask you about the poultry industry, because it is a great growing industry in our country. These are tens of thousands of people employed. We are the biggest chicken exporter in Europe. I wanted to ask you if you also have an analysis of whether changes in the bill will affect this industry as well. Have you consulted whether you have spoken to representatives of the poultry industry and, Mr President, can these changes affect the fact that many people in this sector may lose their jobs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u287	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one very specific question. Well, at the beginning of this bill, it is also specified who will keep the register of race dogs. And my question is, why is it just one kynological relationship? Why are you condemning dog farmers at this point that their dogs will legally become mutts and de facto lose their livelihood? It's another industry that you can actually put away with this simple record. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u289	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask if we have taken into account the elements relating to the costs of the disposal of meat waste. 'Cause we're wearing 20-40%. slaughtered pieces, the rest requires disposal. The disposal is a huge cost, it's energy, it's pollution, it's air, so it affects the producer's costs, and the producer's costs are passed on to the consumer, because all of this is more expensive. If fur animals are fed this waste, then this waste is going through a natural process that... So? And then what? It needs to be disposed of. ...give food to animals and then animals, meat from fur animals is later processed into (the bell) cat feed, for dogs. Leather-sewn furs are spread out for three to four years and artificial furs are 40 to 50 years old... What about the manure? The manure well, well-developed - sir, I know about it, I have chaired the Committee on Agriculture in the European Parliament for 10 years - enriches the soil that absorbs water better and thus contributes to a certain welfare. That's what you have to look at rationally, rationally. Of course, welfare needs to be taken care of, an increased control system needs to be put in place. It's okay with everything. A good farmer takes care of the animals. And that's what she's like... Therefore, let us not be hypocritical. Reasonable action is needed in this area. They will bring environmental benefits to the consumer and reduce costs also for the entire disposal process, which is a huge expense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u291	Mr applicant, you will have time to address the questions asked by Members. Please pay more respect to Mr Aekierski's achievements and age. Now I ask you to ask Janusz Kowalski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question on formal issues for the Member of the applicant, knowing that we are all interested in ensuring that the draft laws adopted comply with European Union law. As I believe that this draft law is notified by the European Commission in accordance with Directive 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015, as it contains so-called. technical regulations and, as a general rule, as the ladies and gentlemen have this knowledge, such a notification process starts the period of suspension of the rights on this project from 3 to 18 months in order to ensure that there are no legal doubts, I have a polite request for legal advice as to whether my reasoning is correct and therefore whether this project should be notified and, if so, whether the work should not be until then. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to obtain this notification, in accordance with European Union law, suspended. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u293	Thank you very much. On this question, we have exhausted the list of Members who wanted to ask questions. Now the applicant will have a chance to address all the questions asked. Substantively. Especially for this notification.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I will address those questions which were addressed directly to the Member of the applicant, because the Minister will still be able to address those which have been addressed to the Government, and I only have five minutes. With regard to the disposal - here I address Mr Aekierski - I understand this logical sequence that you are presenting. On the other hand, if that were true, Mr, the poultry market in Poland would vary according to which parts of Poland are located. It's not like that. The slaughter poultry in Podbeskidzie, its production and sale, is about the same as poultry production in the north of Poland, where these farms are located. If that were the case, farmers from the north of Poland would be selling their chickens in Podbeskid, where this price would be higher, and it does not happen. Therefore, you know very well that the main cost of animal production is feed, not the disposal of the waste we have during animal production. Here the question was, what other laws, concerning the group of Members who addressed it to work in Parliament. Madam President, I reply to Mrs Pasławska, it so happens that we are a group of Members who have asked you to adopt this bill, and I can say that in this group we do not propose any other laws, at least as far as I know, in the group where I am. There was this very important issue about animal production. This was underlined, compared: animal production related to fur and production e.g. leather straps, shoes etc. This is something we can't compare. Why? Because the primary purpose of animal production in the case of swine, sheep, cattle is something that every man needs as much as the air, or food. Not everyone has to eat meat. Wool. Not at all, sir. Wool is a by-product, for example. is in sheep, whereas the main purpose of animal production in this case, as in the case of rabbit, which we exclude, is meat. So what we're wearing, which is stripes, jackets, shoes, are by-products of animal production, which causes... That's not true. It's growing on purpose. Okay, sir. There are cases that specifically, but in principle this is a by-product of meat production. Therefore, we cannot compare fanaberia, breeding and breeding of fur animals... It's the same thing. ...fanaberia, for a small industry, for a small group of people who can afford to buy this fur, for what we need every day, that is to produce food. It's the same category. I would very much ask you to understand this big difference, actually we can say: a strategic one that causes a rabbit - or a sheep, a goat, a cow - not subject to the same rules as fur animals, and that we do not prohibit this production. Ridiculous absurdity. There was also a question here about keeping animals in a constant way on the chain. I happen to be talking to a member of the Law and Justice Club who has tabled an amendment in this regard. We will limit the keeping of animals on chains. The point is that their phenotypes do not allow animals of the same length to be on chains that have, for example, the same length. 3 kg and 10 kg. Those little dogs in the shacks just couldn't handle that chain. I would also like to say to you that we have consulted this, but with people other than you, of course, because you only consult with business, with those who make money... With hundreds, thousands of farmers. ...and those people who want to tell everyone that this is some kind of thriving business. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, those farmers were famous for everything. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we consult with the inhabitants of these villages, farmers, Poles and Poles who cannot live there. With the farmers who were under the Seym. I would like to present to you a letter that one of the ladies has sent to us. What does it give us? mink farm, ladies and gentlemen? The destruction of an oasis of peace, concreteized hectares of fertile land, which in the future will probably no longer belong to the Polish people. It's heartbreaking. Second comment: Thinkingborz 2012. As Poles, we feel quite despicable. As citizens in our own country, we must fight for the rejection of the aforementioned. an investment which, apart from qualifying as an environmental bomb, leaves the colloquial smell and dirt without giving absolutely any benefit to our country. Make an antismog bill, and you're not shutting down the industry. Last one: We the undersigned expect decisive actions of the government and the parliament of the Republic of Poland, which will aim to reduce immediately and then completely prohibit breeding in Poland. Przelewice, 2013 Finally, ladies and gentlemen (the bell), I would like to ask you if anyone asks you... But, sir, you're not here to ask questions, you're here to answer questions. I want you to answer my questions. I answer questions. Mr. Marshal, I answer your questions. You have not answered the fundamental question of the European Union's notification. The Legislature Bureau has spoken. If someone asked you, ladies and gentlemen, what are you proud of in Poland, would any of you say that Poland is second in Europe in terms of the number of animals from which we peel our skin? Definitely not. Thank you very much. Mr President, you can also be asked to answer the fundamental question of the European Union's notification. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This topic was raised many times yesterday at a committee meeting that lasted all night. The Legislative Office has spoken about this and the Members who ask this question have a full overview of it. It must also be made clear, however, that the Members who are in the Chamber today, as I recall, said that today, before the second reading, they will proceed to this procedure. I don't know if it happened, but unfortunately it's not up to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Just like yesterday. You don't know today either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u295	Mr Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, may tell us more about the European Union's notification.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, I am able to tell you more, as I have been fully informed. Your marshal has taken formal action to obtain this notification. That's one thing. Secondly, of course, such action does not, under any circumstances, stop legislative action. He's not holding back? The office's opinion on this is different. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to these questions, which were addressed to the representative of the Council of Ministers - these were above all general questions, whether the government thought about whether the government was in favour - I confirm what he said... I ask Mr Winnicki to stop interrupting all the time. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you, Marshal. Well, I can repeat what the head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk declared yesterday. The government supports this project, recommends its adoption. The government as a whole supports this project. The government supports most of the amendments that the Agriculture Committee adopted yesterday at a long and turbulent meeting. The Government has also agreed on these amendments that Mr Suski presented. Another question, the issue of the authority of the service dogs, which are already finishing their service. This issue has been the subject, which I must say with satisfaction, of a great consensus between the government party, the applicants of the project and the opposition. And we have, in fact, adopted, with consensus, proposals from the opposition. Not with a consensus. There was no consensus. Of course. There was a request to your Members to allow the Minister to speak. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: The consensus may not have been full, but between the parties I mentioned, that is, part of the opposition, the government side and the applicant. As regards the questions asked in writing, namely agricultural, meat, poultry and beef production, as well as what Mr Gawkowski asked, which is a detailed reference to the comments of the Polish Cynological Union, we will of course provide such answers. With regard to microchip issues - it has appeared in many different speeches by ladies and gentlemen - this is a matter for further discussion, of course for further serious discussion. As far as I know, the Sejm is being examined or a specific submission in this regard will soon be conducted. It is a good form and a good mode to take a detailed and thorough look at these proposals. Mrs Katarzyna Bakerska asked about the so-called. asylums for animals, especially animals, which will not be able to participate in circus performances. This case is also open to discussion. Personally, I would also see the role and active participation of social organizations who take care of animals. I already told you about the notification. On the other hand, Mr Grzegorz Braun asked questions of the kind I expected to see to these issues, namely the height of the snake in the fang. I would like to inform you, sir, that, within the meaning of the provisions of the law that we are working on today, a snake has less than 50 cm in it - first of all. And second of all, there is absolutely no obligation to hide a snake in a pen. [[So it's 9 m2 per snake.]] The law does not impose such an obligation, so it is a pure and beautiful academic issue. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u297	Thank you very much. On the issue of the snake, Mr Braun, to which we give 30 seconds, is constantly on the table. You're gonna have to start talking now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u298	We're leaving the snake. The Minister is known to me. I remembered it very well from the speeches on the Senate forum, when in the start-up phase of pandemic psychosis and corapanics in Poland I asked about coming to the airport Okęckie for an eye so maybe even a few hundred soldiers of the United Kingdom of Great Britain [[♪ The bell ♪]] in full uniform, as passengers of large flying craft. I asked how it would be restricted to Polish citizens. And the Minister, with the same conflict that he's misinformed you with today, said that war maneuvers are not a public assembly, and that's why there's no problem. This is Minister Szrot. Get to know him better. Remember. He'll be back. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u299	I close the discussion in which the request for a third reading was made without referring the draft law to the committee after delivery of the table of amendments. In view of the opposition, we will settle this issue in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19 (prints 590, 590-A and 622). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u300	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, print No 590 and 590-A. On 16 September, the Sejm held a debate on the draft law and sent the above proposal to the Committee on Public Finance. The Commission examined the draft at its meeting on 16 September, yesterday. In this project, the Act allows the funding of PLK SA, and introduces changes in the National Road Fund, the Railway Fund. A valuable provision of this law is, among others, a valuable solution. flexibility of requirements for so-called non-extinguishables. During the committee's work, a number of amendments were adopted to clarify the provisions of the Act. The Commission therefore submits a draft law in print No 622. At the same time, the committee shall submit three minority proposals at the request of the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u301	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And I would first ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my honor to once again present a position on the Government draft law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, print No 590 with the self-correction. The project deals with legal solutions to finance important public tasks in an era of economic impact caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. This is what I was talking about in my previous speech and the rapporteur was also talking about. The proposed legislation gives you the opportunity to increase your activity in the field of reconstruction of the country's economic potential, as well as to take measures to minimise the risks to the implementation of the investments already under way. In the current economic situation, these are important and very necessary tools. The need to adopt this project was also expressed during the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, which, after considering the amendments, voted in favour by a majority. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of a government draft law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u303	Thank you very much. I am now asking Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not, of course, that there are only bad solutions in this bill. They are also very good, but there is one solution, one proposal that does not allow us to support this law. This is the maintenance of higher VAT rates. We propose an amendment to delete in the Article Act. 4. The State in the explanatory memorandum states that the return to lower VAT rates can only take place in a stable economic situation. So what have we been dealing with for the last five years? Or just propaganda? You were talking about the fact that there was a great sealing of the tax system. There were different numbers: 200, 300, 500 billion PLN. I ask, where is the money, and what is left of this sealing of the tax system in Poland? Recently we hear, and this is the data of the European Commission, also data of the Ministry of Finance, that the VAT gap this year will increase by 5%. The decrease in VAT impact is greater than the recent decline in GDP. Ladies and gentlemen! We are, of course, proposing an amendment which is to delete this point, which maintains the rate of VAT at 23%. and 8%. We also believe that maybe this is the moment to reduce VAT. Our western neighbours have reduced VAT and this is to some extent also an impulse for private investment. In the course of the work, it was also reported that the PIS had tabled, in order to be precise, an amendment to the Act, which we can see is about countering the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, an amendment which speaks about the remuneration of members of the so-called. paedophile committee, Pedophilia. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are asking for deletion of this record, because we do not really understand how this applies to COVID-19, as this amendment has to do with COVID-19. When we talked about this during the meeting of the Public Finance Committee, I heard this argument that this was not the sort of thing that we put in COVID-19. As it was bad before, as you did wrong before, it does not mean that we must continue to support the fact that in these laws of the COVID state every now and then you put things that have little in common with COVID-19. We call for the deletion of this clause which you introduced yesterday by the PiS-ovska majority in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. The club speech will now be completed by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u306	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This law raises a very important and important issue concerning the provision of regional aid to airports. It can be said that regional airports are no longer fueled. Because of the lockdown, these ports lost about PLN 550 million, they still had to cover the costs of providing operational readiness. It turned out that through the epidemic, as a result of the ban on flights for three months, these losses were so great that some of the airports stood on the verge of bankruptcy. At the beginning of June, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin assured that within a few days, he said so, aid would be granted to compensate regional airports for the losses suffered. PLN 142 million were to be transferred to local airports. To this day, even though it's been four months, the penny hasn't gone to regional airports, many of them must have cut costs, that's once. If it hadn't been for the determination and commitment of local governments, many of them would have been on the verge of bankruptcy. Such an example is, among others. airport Szczecin-Goleniów, where if it weren't for the help of the Marshal of the Voivodship and the loan, there would be no money for payouts in August, for salaries for employees. Over the past few weeks, the government has been hiding and communicating that it is waiting for the decision of the European Commission. It turned out that the Commission said that it did not agree to this notification, because the government could provide this aid, public aid, for these three months without asking the Commission. You could say that we lost four months because of our indolence and lack of the professionalism of the rulers. These measures need to be stepped up. Regional airports should be supported as soon as possible, and therefore the provisions of the Ministry's own amendment should be regarded as valid but very late. In view of what is very important for regional airports, I would like to take the opportunity to ask Minister Horala, who is in the Chamber: Minister, when do you foresee that this assistance to regional airports can be given (the bell) because it is necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u307	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are a lot of good things in this project, as we talked about yesterday at first reading. There are cases that the Left Club has been looking for since the start of the pandemic and the freezing of the economy. There are funds for investments, there are railway lines, construction, extension, modernisation of railway stops, accompanying infrastructure, as we have sought. We hope that these measures will serve the various local needs that our Members have informed and informed about in this regard. The same is true of the financing of land transport infrastructure. These investments also serve to save domestic Polish repair and construction companies, because today this industry also feels the effects of the crisis. There is, in this bill, a solution that will serve people who run daycare, self-government crèches, but above all non-public crèches, for which our Members and our Members have also sought and alarmed. This is the fulfillment of our demands, our efforts. The Self-Government Roads Fund will be a small step, but a step towards compensating for the losses of local government income caused by the crisis, the losses caused by the economic crisis. The aim is to reduce the revenue of local governments in this respect. On the other hand, there is also the issue of airports and seaports when it comes to these good things. In particular, airports are in total crisis, and I was talking about it yesterday. Our Members and our Members have been interpelling on airports in individual cities. I was talking about Sławica yesterday, where group redundancies are taking place today. So that in this regard this aid is late, as we also talked about yesterday, because the law was due to enter into force in May, but it is good that it enters into force, and hopefully it will cover the airports. But there are things, first of all, that shouldn't. be included in the COVID Act. It's about cases like a uniformed service fund that doesn't have much to do with COVID. Some of it... We also filed a request yesterday at the finance committee for the withdrawal of the military fund and it was withdrawn. Maybe for other reasons, but he's been withdrawn. There is a question of VAT, which is a controversial issue because Poland fulfilled macroeconomic conditions last year, so that this VAT is reduced by 1%, 1 percentage point next year. Here, the government argues the impact of VAT on the State Treasury by the fact that the State Treasury, in turn, finances government and local government institutions that are struggling with the consequences of the crisis. However, we believe that we voted at the meeting of the finance committee so that this point should be deleted from this law. We have also proposed, and we will reiterate this proposal in order to delete the consultancy services for the co-financing of the railway company PLK. We believe that these COVID measures should go to direct investment, direct work carried out by companies, and not to some usually very expensive consulting services. Not in this case, not in the COVID case. We regret that in this project there are no other recipients of aid resulting from the socio-economic effects of COVID that there is no greater aid for local authorities. The Left Club has submitted a bill that will compensate for 50% of the losses of local government revenue. I told you these roads were a small step. We regret that there is no resources for health care here, that there is no resources for the NFZ, for example for the purchase of influenza vaccines, for which today there were a number of questions (the bell) in current questions. In this situation, the Left Club will hold back on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u309	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I do not see Mr Stefan Krajewski in the Chamber, who was to present the position of the Polish Coalition Club, perhaps I would ask Mr Grzegorz Braun to speak from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u310	God bless you again. Mr. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! Stop hurting me. Release the nation from quarantine. This is a call which we will repeat here until the end, until we see here responsible for this socio-economic-political disaster which you have brought to the Republic under the pretext of fighting the pandemic. Everything here has its pretexts. Under the pretext of striving for animal welfare, you are fighting Polish agriculture, agri-food production, Polish enterprise, property. Under the Pretext of Security You bring foreign bases, troops to our territory. It's all happening these days. The Act of Occupation+, Colonization+, the Act of Bankruptcy+, that is, patching a budget hole, which is going to be a hole, as it is going to be this evening, because we are going to debate on this issue, and it did not come 100%. for the reasons that you have advertised so loudly here and that you have threatened Poles over the past months and quarters. Release the nation from quarantine. Stop hurting, then you won't have to help so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u311	Thank you very much. Now Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will fill the rest of the time allocated to the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u312	Thanks to this bill, something that seemed questionable, however, will succeed, i.e. I think we're going to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the introduction of VAT raised for 3 years. Thank you on behalf of all taxpayers. This will certainly help Poland to emerge from the crisis and counteract the effects of the epidemic. Of course, in this bill we have a statolatric optics. You are saying that investment in roads, in railway stops, in the tracks will carry our economy. That, of course, is not true. Roads, stops and tracks are built at the expense of the economy. That doesn't mean you shouldn't do it. Of course, this should be done, but it is not necessary to repeat such illusions from the myth of broken glass that it brings the economy to a higher level. It's the same idea as trying to levitate by entering a bucket and then raising it to the top, to the ground. You can't do that. It is nice that this debate is just after we discussed the bill eliminating a large part of Polish livestock farming. There, with such disregard, the state referred to these amounts, that these are insignificant fractions of GDP. What fractions? Are we introducing GDP into this law as a great stimulus to the economy? Less than the losses from the previous ones. Fur breeding alone for export is PLN 2.5 billion, and here 5 billion for railways, 3 billion for roads. In fact, with ritual slaughter and all other losses, it's much less. In this way, the effects of your two laws are at best balanced. In such a way you strengthen the Polish economy, that you always stumble over your own shoelaces. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u313	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition will be presented by Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u314	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government draft law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, print No 590, along with the autocorrection, print No 590-A. In this bill we see many things packed into one project. The proposal contained in the draft article. 33za provides that in 2020 the Minister responsible for State Assets shall transfer the amount of 850 000 from the State budget at the request of the Minister responsible for Transport. intended to increase the share capital of PKP PLK. In turn, in the article. 33zb is expected to add PLN 1 million to the share capital increase of PKP PLK. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft law is intended to amend the provisions of the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services, so that the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, can again make this money, our money that taxpayers are earning, pour into this beautiful budget, which we have always heard about, how balanced it was to be. There's something to throw at today. You can drop everything on COVID with impunity. With regard to the article. 3 of the draft law, it should be pointed out that in order to stimulate and further maintain the country's dynamic economic development, it is appropriate to accelerate the spending of resources and, as a result, to significantly increase in 2020 the expenditure from the state budget for the implementation of the investment tasks in the area of land transport infrastructure and to finance them from the expenditure allocated for 2021. Therefore, we are collecting the money from the following years in order to respond to everyone today as is well. Project in Art. 4 contains amendments to the Child Welfare Act of 4 February 2011 to allow for completion of the started tasks in 2021. This is something you should understand, because by COVID some things cannot be done on time, can not be filled. In part, it will also be caused by the fact that incompetent officials have appeared in many positions, who have something to throw at today, because on the COVID you can drop everything. There's also a big addition of money to the State Fire Department, the Police, the Border Guard. I'm sure it's the resources we need. It's gotta be equipped. This has been happening for many years, and it must continue, but there must be common sense in all of this. The Self-Government Road Fund. We need to strengthen these investments, we need to drive, but it's not like the more money we put in, the faster it's going to be, because this money has to be worked out. According to the method of distribution adopted, the airports mentioned earlier are also to be granted. But it's the government's job to decide which one has to add the money and which one doesn't. There is at least an airport in Modlin that was supported by the government was not, is not and will not be. In view of the fact that local governments want to implement these financial plans, but also investments that have been started earlier, some money needs to be moved. We also expect a clear and clear response from the government, which is actually caused by COVID, and which is why you throw people in without preparation. As in companies, you don't need enough, you need them to go to the government. As in government too many, you need them for companies. The carousel's spinning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As these investments need to be implemented, we will vote in favour, but we will support this amendment so that VAT does not move this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u315	Thank you very much. The Member still wanted to take advantage of the rest of the club's speaking time that remained.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u316	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, literally 10 seconds. I didn't add any amendments to the discussion that I tabled on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u317	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that 13 Members have joined the questions. If there's anyone else who wants to join us, you're welcome. If not, I'll set the time for questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill provides for, among other things, for this bill. the allocation of funds to the PKP to maintain railway infrastructure in a condition that ensures safe rail traffic, construction, development and modernisation of the network. In February of this year, before the official announcement of the pandemic, the Minister of Infrastructure assured that in 2021, after the first year of modernization of the Katowice - Kraków route, trains will reach 160 km/h and cross this route even within an hour. The Minister argued that the deadlines declared were not at risk. Therefore, I would like to make sure on behalf of the inhabitants of the 5 millionth Silesian and Krakow agglomeration, that due to additional funds, the PKP funding due to the losses incurred as a result of COVID-19, the total work related to the modernization of the railway route (Dzwonek) Katowice - Kraków, including those related to the certification of this line, will be completed on time. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u319	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u320	Mr. and Mrs. Marshals! High Seym! I would like to draw attention to the process mode for COVID projects, because this mode has the same characteristics for some time and is very disturbing. Firstly, these projects are carried out instantly at the same session of the Sejm. But it wouldn't be so hard if they were sophisticated projects. I'm afraid that's not the case. The projects are underdeveloped, resulting in a lot of changes during the legislative process, a lot of amendments and often a completely different project comes out. We're dealing with the same thing today. There have been self-corrections, corrections, and today there is an amendment. I urge you to stop violating the principles of good legislation, because as a result, there is an inconsistent law, an underdeveloped law, and then (the bell) there is a lot of Senate amendments. There are 45 amendments to the COVID Tourism Act. It's a sign of something. Change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. You're welcome. I can't see. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. Isn't there one? Then Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u322	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Of course, all the responses in the form of legislative changes to support different sectors in relation to the coronavirus are very legitimate. On the other hand, the general opinion of the users of this law is that perhaps it would be possible for the future - because this first period was very, I would say, pioneers - to make legislation so that different sectors are not mixed up in one law. If there are social issues, so that they are separated in these COVID regulations, infrastructure also. I have these signals from people who, as a rule, use this right, from these institutions, economic operators. They say it would give them a sense of professionalism to prepare it. The second thing I wanted to say. There are many different regulations here, just like colleagues. they said good regulation for different sectors, including the sector (the bell) of uniformed services. The question of aid to airports. In Wielkopolska, Poznań there is an airport employing about 300 people. At the moment, there is a discussion with workers about the release of 20% of the crew. Without financial assistance, these regional airports will have a very difficult situation and we would not want to bring them down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Mr... Mr Robert Winnicki. You're not gonna ask me a question? Yeah, I quit. Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u324	Dear Marshal! I wanted to tell you that during the discussion with one of the ministers of the government, I suggested that if only the government had decided to listen to the Confederation from the very beginning and for example. The Poles would then have a slightly easier passage through lockdown and through the coronavirus crisis that you have caused your decisions. Then I heard from the minister such a clever answer, which he thought was ridiculous: Why do people need low taxes when they don't make money? And unfortunately, at the time, I knew there wasn't much to talk about. We still have the subject of the VAT gap, which somehow happened to have started to grow recently. And you're the ones who said all you had to do was not steal. So did the government of law and justice start stealing when the VAT gap is growing? This thing is wrong, and I think someone could explain it to us. Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you when the government's gonna do tax cuts and why not in three years' time when the PiS is leaving and the Confederation is gonna start ruling. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u325	Yes... Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u326	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this bill, we have talked a lot about airports, and I have a question about seaports, because there are provisions in this law concerning securities to be transferred to seaports for investment purposes. The amount is set at about PLN 1 billion, while in the provisions of the Act appears, there is an enumerative mention of one port, i.e. a port in Gdynia, which is to be supplied with an amount equivalent to EUR 150 million. And my question is, what kind of assistance do you plan on investing in other ports? I am particularly interested in the port of Szczecin - Świnoujście, because there these investments are ongoing and the investment needs are also big. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, do you plan to raise your capital for investments in the port of Szczecin - Świnoujście? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've got a book right here, right from the printer's office, on Act 447. These numbers are known to you because, as you wish, you can glue your next anti-crisis laws together from nothing. Sometimes you apply them even out of dozens of different laws, which you change by one act, which you're going to have instantly, in just a few hours. So why - this question - do not find room in your next anti-crisis projects, tried here on the pretext of fighting the supposed pandemic, such important issues as those of the projects: Stop 447, Stop Eugenic abortion, Stop pedophilia (The Bell) and other social projects... Thank you. ...which lie here in the seym freezer? Why shouldn't we do that? Why shouldn't we do that? Oh, I'll mention the destruction... Well, thank you very much, sir. ...a hunting tradition in Polish families. Thank you very much, sir. You're going beyond the subject of the bill. There's a bill that could change that. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. I can't give this book to your marshal, but I can recommend it... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u329	Thank you very much. Yes, yes, of course, sir. You're famous for these kind of speeches. Thank you, Marshal, for your appreciation. I don't think that's very good of you, sir. That was sarcasm. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask the Minister a question. Namely, in June, when you promised to help regional airports, you assured the residents of the regions where these airports are midwives and passengers that this assistance would take place as soon as possible. It has been 4 months, there are no results and it turns out that the European Commission rejected the request for notification, as well as that your request did not have to cover those 3 months when it was lockdown, because this public aid was allowed at that time. So, Minister, I have questions: Who has not prepared for this procedure? Who failed? When did you even file that motion? And why did we lose four months to support regional airports? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask, Minister, what it is like with this decision to reject the notification. Have you prepared a request for an extension of the deadline and that is why it was rejected? Thank you. Did someone just show total incompetence, amateurism, and just didn't know how these procedures worked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u331	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015, the Prime Minister Beata Szydło presented hard commitments to Poles with her lips. One of these obligations was to reduce VAT to 22%. It's been five years and that promise has not been fulfilled. Moreover, during these five years, the government consciously introduced higher taxes. And today Law and Justice pushes through the Sejm a provision which is to be a specific alibi for the following years and this alibi will be translated into the need to maintain higher VAT. The question to the Minister: Why did Law and Justice cheat Polish and Polish for 5 years and not reduce VAT if it was possible? Question two: When will the government fulfill its promise? Second line. The Act introduces the possibility of establishing chimney wages for members of the so-called members. Pedophilia Committee. And my question is very short. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the committee hasn't done anything about a case that was called for, then why are you already working on her salary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since March, we have been acting in a pandemic mode, and this really requires special solutions, while governments are introducing under cover solutions aimed at combating pandemics many different ideas not always related to pandemics. The most outrageous is the law on civil impunity, which is supposed to protect officials from responsibility, who simply do scams. This law also deals with a solution which the COVID Act is to cover, i.e. with an increase in VAT of 1%. Couple of years ago, you could really use that. I would like to ask the Minister how much the impact will be from this increased VAT, which you have repeatedly promised to reduce. What will be the budget deficit despite this increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u336	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill speaks of good solutions. There are good regulations in it, too. I have a question: When will airports be financed? Warsaw-Modlin Airport is already on the verge of bankruptcy. In August, there wasn't enough money for employee salaries. Question to the government: At what time can this funding to airports take place? What are we waiting for, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u337	Thank you, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance will answer the questions on behalf of the Government, Minister Sebastian Skuz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! COVID time is sometimes difficult. Officials also work under pressure. Hence, there may sometimes be problematic issues regarding the clarification of draft legislation. However, this project was not so much improved at the level of the Sejm committee's work. If there have been any shortcomings, I am very sorry for them. We also work under pressure from time. As far as the distribution of social and economic affairs is concerned during the pandemic period, I think they intersect each other. There's no need to create any separate legal acts here. It's a VAT problem. First of all, I would like to point out that there are some estimates from entrepreneurs that the VAT gap is likely to increase. However, these are only forecasts. Whether or not the VAT gap has increased, we will not be able to talk until next year when the official data is available. So far, that's the employer's estimate. VAT at 23% would be maintained in the following year because we have a pandemic issue and the application of a simplified expenditure rule. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, yesterday at first reading I said that this is an amount of about PLN 9.9 billion. The deficit for next year is planned at PLN 82.3 million. In terms of reducing or increasing taxes, I would like to draw attention to solutions already adopted, such as: PIT for young people up to 26 years old or planned - Estonian CIT, which we are working on. As regards port recapitalisation, I note that the amount allocated to the port recapitalisation project amounts to PLN 1 billion. The difference between the amount guaranteed for the port of Gdynia and the entire billion could also be used to finance other ports. I know there will be a meeting with port representatives in Szczecin within two weeks. Representatives of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Ministry of Finance, will participate. I think that if the Marshal and the High House allow, in the question of direct airport questions, Minister Marcin Horała will answer or we will address it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Minister Marcin Horała, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u340	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen! There were also several regional airports here, so maybe a brief statement of factography first. We have in Poland a total of 14 public airports operating passenger flights, a significant part of which was permanently in deficit and suffered losses even before the pandemic of Coronavirus. It was really in the pre-nomination discussion with the European Commission that it was raised as the main argument: that we want to subsidise these airports, and the European Commission says that there is no sense of certainty whether we are simply returning pandemic costs or, by chance, we do not want to cover costs in a hidden way, for example. poor management of those airports which can no longer be returned with public aid. By the way, I'm a little surprised. Being a local governmentman, I've always heard in the discourse how local governments always manage best, because they're close to the locals, they see best. And in such difficult situations as this. Coronavirus pandemic, when this quality of management could shine full of light, from this side we hear the opposite: government, help, government, grant. But the government doesn't shy away from it. Don't mock local governments. I dislike some of the people who speak in the public debate on this subject, Mr President. Not from local governments as such, there are different local governments in Poland. Therefore, when the European Commission has extended this pre-notice dialogue, when we do not have a positive notification decision and it is difficult to predict when it will be, we are making an additional move, an additional gesture to introduce new provisions precisely into this law, which will allow us to pay out these funds. The question is, when are we gonna pay off this money? That's the kind of question I've been asking. Of course, when the legislative process is completed. Act with your colleagues in the Senate to make it work. Then we'll have a legal basis, so that in a consistent, legal way... [[♪ The bell ♪]] What ends with illegal public aid, it is the Platform in Szczecin that should probably adopt very painfully and not make any more such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u341	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws (prints Nos 574 and 593). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present briefly a report on the draft amendment to the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws contained in print 593, is the original printing, and 574 is the report. The committees were sitting yesterday. One minority request has been submitted. Let me remind you that this is a very important government initiative, which introduces improvements in the current financial instruments, which are related to the implementation of projects aimed at improving air quality in Poland. These are due both to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on air protection and to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in respect of the Commission's complaint against the Republic of Poland due to the exceedance of air quality standards in the years 2007 to 2015. Due to the delay, maybe I would focus only on a brief indication of the substance of the amendments. The Commission, in agreement with the Legislative Office, of course adopted editorial amendments. She also voted on seven substantive amendments to the draft amendments to the Act. Several of these amendments aim to amend the draft law on amendments proposed in the Environmental Law - introductory provisions. They were adopted in the Act of 14 August 2020 amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels. It was necessary to delete certain provisions from the procedated bill amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization already contained in this Act. I would like to draw attention to the amendments that have been adopted in the framework of the joint work of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure. to the amendment adding the following amendment, namely that it is possible for the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to make available funds to voivodship funds to cover the costs incurred before 15 May 2020 for the operation of the tasks carried out by these voivodship funds in connection with the implementation of environmental and water management programmes and projects and the needs of geology, as well as for the tasks carried out by local government units which cooperate in the implementation of these programmes and projects. This is necessary for the settlement of the costs following the changes made to the programme and the launch of the new edition of the programme on 15 May this year, in quotes. So that I recommend the High House to adopt this very important legislative act, which also involves spending powerful financial resources on all air improvement work, on anti-smog measures. It's a multi-annual program. The programme, multi-billion-dollar, has already been announced by the government by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and I think that these facilitations, changes introduced through the government amendment will also significantly improve the implementation of investments serving thousands of Polish families and, above all, related to many initiatives of local government units as beneficiaries of key results of actions which are related to the achievement of the objectives that I mentioned earlier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Polaczek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. What's he gonna say? Interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, as a representative of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to refer to my speech as rapporteur from the moment before, first of all to say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice introduced seven substantive amendments that improve the regulation contained in this government project. I have mentioned that there is an amendment that makes it difficult to account for some of the costs incurred before 15 May 2020 in implementing the clean air projects so that these expenditures - estimated at around 8800 thousand. zł - they were financed by the National Environmental Fund. Once again, we stress, in support of this government initiative, that this project will be very effective in the form of, first, support for municipal authorities, which carry out low-carbon projects in single-family buildings under the "Stop smog" programme, constitute the Central Register of Building Emissions. This is a new regulation introduced by this law, or above all - and I want it to sound exceptionally - to improve the operation of the government's priority programme.Clean air. I will not refer to these purposes of the law, which I have discussed in my speech on behalf of the parliamentary club in the first reading. Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the government project. I think it is with great satisfaction that we note in a very short period of time the very good effects of the mechanisms that we are working on in the High House today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to maintain our position on the fact that there are no systemic effective solutions to combat smog, to improve air quality, but we accept the proposals for adjustments for both the "Stop smog" and the "Clean Air" programme, which are included in this draft law. We accept the same - and we have reported many times this need - the Central Register of Building Emissivity, energy standards of buildings. However, knowing - perhaps because of this - the importance of such an undertaking, we would first of all ask that it be such an undertaking that this database, the records are primarily functional, feasible and comply with the data protection regulations. First of all, it should be coordinated with other bases that already exist, and should not multiply the existences associated with the workload of local governments, which are already overloaded in this regard. The building issue record should be characterised by such criteria and should be a register of building issue rather than of people. However, what has been presented to us is a great chaotic solution for obtaining information from different sources, uncoordinated, where information about people is mixed or that violates the protection of personal data about their financial status with technical information about buildings, which is not related to each other. In order to prove that it is unrealizable and really it will be an empty act, it is that the vacatio legis concerning the creation of such records is broken down into several stages and is defined in form: after the moment of notification of readiness for functionality of the various stages of BAS. I don't know how to define vacathio legis for individual acts and I've never heard of it in my life. But what in return? By stressing the need to operate and establish such a base, as the local authorities stress, we would like to propose a real register of buildings, which is linked primarily to the geographical system of information about the area, which was also mentioned by Mr Poleczek at the meeting of the committee, the land register, the central register of energy performance of buildings. This register still needs to be extended, due to the implementation of the EU Directive, to other buildings, not only public buildings and property tax issues. In this way, it will be a tool linked to the payer of the tax and will be a tool for municipalities to identify and determine the actual state of emissions, as well as the energy performance of buildings in the municipality and to plan specific actions. We propose such a solution to exclude from this law the issue of central registration to a separate statutory regulation - this is done as I said, amateurally and on my knee, and I do not want to use more adjectives here - and prepare ourselves realisticly - we declare the readiness of such work - to develop a real base that could be realized within a specific period of time. A general census of population and housing is foreseen in 2021. It is not only residential buildings but also public buildings. In this way we would clearly define the vacathio legis of this future law and we could at that time prepare a really good tool that will be useful and effective from the point of view of this purpose. And this is the amendment I make to the marshal's staff. Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to stress that we were hoping for some clarification of the doubts about the protection of personal data. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, no one was able to explain to us either the way in which this record should work or this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how personal data are to be protected. That's where we're calling for it, as I said before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u347	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u348	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club considers this project to be directionally good. It corrects what has so far been underdeveloped and what has been corrupted in these programmes that have already been mentioned, namely the.Stop smog and the "Clean Air." I would like to remind you that these programmes have proved to be a failure in terms of the number of people and the number of buildings that have been covered, as well as in terms of the resources that have been spent on them. As a Left, we pointed out one important element, namely that in these new regulations the required reduction in heating demand in low-carbon projects was reduced from 50% to 30%. by the municipality within the framework of one project. What does that really mean? This means that if we are to act, to counteract smog, then the reduction of the requirements for these buildings poses a question of the validity of this program. Numerously different actors have indicated that this is the way it should be, that this 50% reduction in heat demand is necessary. She pointed to this, among other things. The PAS pointed out this to other organisations, stating that this is unjustified and will have a negative impact on the efficiency of the modernisation carried out. But for now, this record is still in the project. We reported this as a minority motion. There are two more things I'd like to say. Because on the one hand, I understand that this 50% thermomodernization at the current state of buildings can be difficult because they are actually sometimes in very difficult condition, and that also makes people who live in such uninsulated buildings actually keep putting fuel in the oven to heat and their homes, and outside the air, because there is no, in these buildings, thermoregulation, thermomodernization. On the other hand, however, we also have increasingly high and more sensible climate objectives, the EU, which indicate that energy efficiency of buildings must be increased, and that is extremely important for us. Let me remind you that 72% single-family buildings in Poland, as it is indicated, require thermomodernization. So, the field to show off, the field to actually act in favour of thermomodernization, but at the same time also to achieve these climate goals... this road is open. We will support, as I said, this project, but we want this amendment to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government bill amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws, prints no. 574 and 593. In Poland 80% single-family buildings are heated with solid fuels, including 3 million using technologically outdated coal and wood boilers that emit significant amounts of pollutants. Over 70% single-family houses have no thermal insulation or are poorly heated. Poland has had the most polluted air throughout the European Union for years and we should therefore do everything to ensure that these programmes that we are implementing work. The launch of the Central Register of Building Issues is one of the main assumptions of this amendment. Because we really should have inventory of all of this, we should know what was done, what resources, what money, what else to do, because if we operate without such a map and knowledge, then really this money will be spent poorly. And here too, we must mention what we have received in this room quite recently. Because, on the one hand, we want to meet all these emission conditions, and on the other hand, we are making a law here that wood has to be included in renewable energy sources. Heat sources need to be changed, we need to think about RES, we need to think about heat pumps that make us independent from external energy suppliers, because it's all on-site we can create: solar energy, wind energy, but it will also work if we have these buildings adequately heated, upgraded, and there's still a lot to do. According to this project, all these data are to be collected into one system, but as we can even see here, these systems do not work more often than they do. Because even when it comes to our systems that are so modern and are supposed to allow remote voting, everyone has the opportunity to see that it doesn't work more often than it does. So here, if you invest a lot of public money, it would be good for this record to work properly, i.e. respecting the law and maintaining personal data. And all that will be implemented is intended primarily to serve Poles, not the government for full surveillance of Poles. [[Applause]] Because this is another record and another check. As we discussed earlier, this government wants to have full knowledge of this matter. This program is really the action of local governments today. Where local authorities have dealt with the subject early enough, it is easier there. The government talks about it a lot, but there's not much going on. Here again the question of the Ostrołęka power plant - huge money, huge ideas, and today we are wondering what to sunbathe it with, because we already know that cogeneration, maybe gas, maybe something. There is a lack of logic and coherence in the operation of this government, and on the other hand good ideas, if presented, are presented by someone who is not a representative of the United Right, no longer needed for anything. In a moment it can be supplemented by commas, semicolons and dots and say that this is an idea that could only appear in the heads of the ruling option, no one else has the opportunity to express what is good. Just watch how local governments did it - from the smallest ones: municipalities, powiats, through voivodships, and implement it all over Poland. We will support this bill, but we will also watch whether it is well done, logically and whether it will serve us, Poles, because we must think about the future, about future generations, but also approach everything in common sense. As a coalition of Poland we will be behind common sense actions, not only that on paper everything is to be agreed, and in practice far from the goal (the bell), much is missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun will present Mr Grzegorz Braun to the High House. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u352	And we won't support you, Mr. Buddy. We won't back it up. Ha, ha, ha! I clapped here when the highly venerable Member spoke, yes, for rational, common sense modernization trends. Who of us doesn't want to live better, cheaper, warmer, safer, more prosperous, and spoke loudly for the surveillance system. For this reason we will not support this project, because, your esteemed marshal representing this totaliztic project as a representative of the current parliamentary majority, this is another project from hell. This is another dragon's head, not the smog we're fighting here, ladies and gentlemen. You guys, we're barely gonna cut one or the other's head off, you're gonna grow another one. Why? Why would the central system of records of what was traditionally reserved for the knowledge of loved ones, neighbours - oh, there is such a Polish proverb: neighbors know how who sits, right? That's enough, let the neighbors know, and why should he know this or another master of power? Some representative today, not only of the Warsaw regime, but of the Eurokochoz Leviathan, right? It is dangerous if, under the pretext of doing better for people, reducing emissions, taking care of air cleanliness, fighting smog and everything, everything sounds great for show, thermomodernization just, on the pretext of all these nice-looking things the state wants to build another network in which Poles will find themselves, together with their wealth, with their property, with their capabilities and financial shortcomings, because whoever will modernise himself must let such a Leviathan head into his home. Leviathan's gonna look in and out, and into his wallet, 'cause who's gonna be modernizing, participating in this program, he's gonna have to do a good job, he's gonna have to turn his pockets around, right? The wallet is open to your authority. And that's disgusting for us, ladies and gentlemen, that's totalizm. Let me put it simply that we find it difficult to resist the suspicions of what this might serve, maybe you don't even know yourself, ladies and gentlemen ministers, because these are decisions that are going to fall somewhere in the upper stratosphere, where sometimes it blows so much that it blows off its head, so you'd prefer to keep your head down, maybe you don't know what it's supposed to be for, and it's hard to resist the suspicion that there's a horrible caster out there somewhere in perspective, isn't it? If the power finally finds out who's sitting on it, how it's gonna measure it all up, how it turns out that maybe some people emit too much, right, what they don't need... The others aren't enough. ...then there will be a stick in the other hand, and it will suddenly turn out that some Poles are insolvent and that from their modernized properties, who knows, they may have to move out, look for a roof over their head somewhere else. It will turn out that they do not meet certain standards, and not fulfilling these standards, they will have to pay some penalties against us. Since you have adopted this system on a national and international scale, the truth, the amounts of emissions, the trade in them - all this madness which, of course, translates directly into the welfare of Poles, to the condition of the state budget, who knows, maybe in the nearest moments of desperation it dawns on you, to translate this system of repression, promotion, but also repression, under the pretext of taking care of the clean air and fighting this terrible smog (the Bell), into ordinary mortals, on us, individual Poles. That's why we say no, we run screaming, we won't support such projects - cut it by half and throw away this central record, then we'll think about if there's any good in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u353	Thank you very much, sir. High Izbo, let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Everything is actually fine, it goes in the right direction, if we don't mention chapter 5a entitled: Central building issue record. We are talking about a law on amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws, and you are introducing surveillance of every building - it must clearly sound from this stand. You want every building in Poland to be registered so that you know the name of the owner or manager of the building. Why would you want to do that? in the case of passive houses whose owners do not reach for aid for thermomodernisation. On 9 August this year, we passed a law on the National Census of Population and Apartments. Maybe we should build that knowledge there, use it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question, Minister. How much money from the state budget do you intend to allocate to local governments to carry out this type of activity enshrined in the Act? Self-governments are being robbed all the time, receiving additional tasks and never receiving any funds. Thank you very much, sir. There is a bill, we have passed it, we can be cleverly involved in carrying out such a census, and today let us act within the existing rules. You have to reach...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, about the CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Yesterday I asked in this room about central records. I asked specific questions that I didn't get any answers to. I was hoping that this matter would be worked out at the committee meeting. Of course, nothing like that happened, which I regret. Therefore, I must ask again why, in the case of central records, such emphasis is placed on the fact that it includes details of personal data relating to individual properties and individual buildings. This data will be out of date the next day. After all, people buy real estate, sell, die - various things happen on the market. What's the point of this data, and who's gonna protect it? People will avoid entering data in this register because it is very dangerous. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a threat, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I must once again, because once again it is used as an argument for the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, with the Prime Minister's comment at first reading that the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL are doing nothing in this direction... The TSUE alleged this. No, it's not. Yes, air protection standards were not kept - and they are still not kept - but the operative part of this ruling states that Poland has not taken appropriate action in air protection programmes to ensure that the duration of exceedance of PM limit values By the way, let me say one sentence to the Minister. I do not know if the Minister has read the last European Commission report on the state of the environment. The European Commission is alerting that Poland has made absolutely no progress in the fight against smog in the last two years, in 2017. In a year, we'll find out the same thing, and in two years, we'll find out the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u361	The Member was to say one sentence. Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. There isn't. In this connection, Mr Marek Rutka, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The metropolitan area of Gdansk-Gdynia-Sopot, which I am a resident, requested the development of standards for thermal modernisation audits during the public consultation. Your attention has been rejected. You've explained that it's out of the control area. So I have a question. How will the persons concerned or entities be able to know the guidelines for technical details of thermomodernisation in detail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When you look at this mobilization and the contents of the register of buildings and owners, it's hard to resist the impression that this is an IT preparation for the introduction of a cadastral tax. I mean, there's gonna be everything in that ledger. Just one amendment, one night and Poles will pay the cadastral tax. I hope not, but I can see that it's going that way. Minister, why didn't you use the land and buildings records that exist, and which record could be used freely without the cost of the new system? And the other thing, Minister. As you know, I come from a region that has a problem with dirty air, contaminated air. Yesterday, the Minister mentioned meetings. Of course, I appreciate that, but the question is: What will be the concrete actions in Podbeskidzia, Silesia Cieszyńskiego, Żywiecczyn, Pszczyńska Land? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will the inhabitants of this region finally be able to breathe clean air? In fact, this should be the result of this law, and so far this effect and actions are not visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u366	Thank you, Marshal, for letting me speak. Ladies and gentlemen! It is again such a case, when something that could please us is underdeveloped when some mechanisms are being used in the wrong direction. Keeping this register, this register raises many doubts, many questions. These questions have already been raised by my previous speakers. My question is simple: Will you start working effectively with local governments? We have the impression that local authorities are treating you as such a fifth wheel at the car right now, and the speed of driving this car, when it comes to energy issues, really leaves a lot to be desired, and sometimes it can be said that this car is even going backwards. For a long time, local governments have called for involvement in, for example, funding management issues under the Clean Air programme. Only when you were reprimanded by the European Commission did you allow the local authorities to speak. I would very much like to ask you to start treating local governments as partners, because such records could be of service to someone, and for the time being, there is only doubt as to how you will use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u367	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate will answer the questions raised by the Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the honourable Members very much for their substantive work on the bill both in the plenary room and in the committee meeting. I appreciate the fact that, after first reading, 46 Members supported the bill during the work of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, only one abstention. This shows that the regulation submitted to the High House has met with acceptance. I will address the questions raised during the second reading. Maybe from the very end it will be easier for me, so hot, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska. Madam President, we work perfectly together as a government with the local government on the solutions presented in this draft law. It is the acceptance of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission for this project. Your flagship project is the best example of this. I will also refer to the Mrs Lewis's proposal. I am very sorry, because I do not think the Member was speaking in questions. The proposal was to increase this threshold for reducing heating demand combined for all low-carbon projects carried out by the municipality. That's a 30% reduction. is at the request of local government units. We have such an agreement within the joint government and local government committee. Let me put it this way: so far, the "Stop smog" programme has actually been implemented to a small extent. The reduction of this level, including the number of single-family buildings, in terms of the possibility of applying the municipality to the scheme, from 2% to 1% or 20 buildings under the scheme gives greater interest to the municipalities. We respect, we accept that voice. Referring to Mr Mirosław Suchon's question on Chapter V: Central Register of Buildings' emissivity, I would like to say that the data we will be asking directly for, i.e. the name, surname, address of the property, possibly telephone number or e-mail address, if the beneficiary has, are all the data that we will ask the beneficiaries who will want to participate in this programme. On the other hand, all data are automatically downloaded from various IT systems, including land and buildings records. Apparently, the Member has not noticed this provision in the draft law. On the other hand, as far as the Pszczyna programme is concerned, Cieszyna or more widely for the most polluted towns, which are on the list of the 50 most polluted European cities or with the most polluted air, we are preparing a special programme together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Hence the visit of Minister Michael Kurtyki tomorrow. I will also participate in the delegation and will also be the representative of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The idea is to talk together with a representative of the Voivodship office, the Voivodship Environmental and Water Management Fund, how to shape a program specifically dedicated to cities with the most polluted air. Among them is, unfortunately, the city you mentioned - Pszczyna. We'll meet there tomorrow. So we take very active action. And an important piece of information. Local self-government units will have this tool - here still to Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska - they will be able to use this tool, which is the building register, without pay. This program, this record will be made from funds, from the program Digital Poland. It's the European Union's resources. From the Digital Poland programme, this tool will be financed in its entirety as a central register of building emissions and all the mayors, mayors, presidents will have access to this base, within their territory, of course in a free way. Referring to Mrs Lenartowicz's speech (The Bell)... As if your marshal would allow me to finish, extend by one minute... You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: With regard to Mrs Lenartowicz's comments, I would like to say to you, Mrs Lenartowicz, that the Government of Law and Justice in relation to the previous period... I know that the very dynamics of events are that we are simply achieving civilizational progress in a given area, but referring to facts, the result is that in the report of the European Commission, which referred to the period from 2007 to 2015, 44 zones in which PM10 emissions were exceeded were indicated in Poland. However, in the current report, from 2018 to 2019, we managed to reduce these overruns, reducing the number of these zones from 39 to 22. And we are in 2020, and we do not yet have current data, but this progress is very visible, physically felt. I am convinced that in the next report we will be able to come down perhaps below 10 zones in which there are crossings at the moment. But we're already working on programs dedicated specifically to these areas. Yes, I have already answered Mrs Zofia Czernow's question, and there is no extraordinary data here. With regard to Mr Gadowski's question about how much money has been spent in the budget, I also actually answered: the funds will be from the Digital Poland Programme, the municipalities will not spend any money from their budget to prepare this tool, which is the central record of the issue of buildings. These are actually the most important questions. Mr Tomasz Olichwer asked about CO2 emissions Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much. What I'm trying to say is that we need this central building base, too. Don't make such accusations that it's some kind of surveillance tool. In particular, Mr Grzegorz Braun, in his very colourful speech here, drew up a certain threat of oppression that the state is creating by introducing this central base for the issue of buildings. No, it's not. This is a tool to serve us all, together, all institutions and units of the local government, ministers and state institutions, so that we can simply achieve, dear country, within this next ten-year perspective, a good result in obtaining clean air in cities for the living and for future generations. Okay, Minister, I'll... To conclude, thank you again very much for the substantive work on the bill. Please support this project. I am convinced that it will serve Polish families, the Polish society well, so that clean air can be breathed and that the funds that the Government of Law and Justice has allocated under the "Clean Air" programme can be used well. Let me remind you, this is PLN 103 billion in the perspective of 2029. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u369	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding (print No 512). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The bill is known to you because it appeared in the Sejm, before the High Chamber on 15 March Ub. r. I think that in a little modified formula appears today. Some implementation procedures caused this to be postponed for a few months, and then on the occasion of the political calendar, this bill fell into discounting. The circumstances that accompany it are so favourable that I think there is no controversy here - because they are not there, there is no objection to the intention of the law, which is obvious, nor to the obvious legal provisions. As I recall, the discussion was not about the very shape of the bill. Some contextual associations have been used, sometimes quite remote from the proposal for a literal law. That's the way it is this time. It can be said that the EU directives implemented by the 2016 Regulation are much more precise, much more precise and serve to sort things out in our Polish backyard as they concern the way cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae are kept. We add to this our own experience and needs in the field of regulation and breeding of animal species classified as livestock in Poland. Of course, I share the view that these farms must be covered by the same rules, the same acts that allow for an optimal type of breeding, on the one hand using these good EU proposals, on the other hand completely in line with the Polish preferences and presence of certain species, which are obvious from our point of view as farm animals, namely poultry, fur animals, bees, deer, as well as alpaca and mulberry silk. Of course, all these species that I have presented to you are included here at the request of the breeders of these animals, and in this way they are also included in livestock. Our bill includes national regulations that allow bees, poultry, fur animals, deer, alpaca and mulberry silks to be considered as farm animals. Well, I'm gonna stress that one more time, because this is the new thing that's obvious. It just needs to be adjusted. It has been practiced, but on the basis of implementation it must be included in this already present act of the highest order. It is also a favourable and important circumstance that everything I have presented here to you, the High House, has been notified to the European Commission. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u371	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski will present his position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding, print No 512. The proposed law is intended to replace the current law of 29 June 2007, which, as the Minister mentioned, has been dealt with for some time now. However, the entry into force of Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 - that is such a large Union zootechnical regulation applicable from 1 November 2018 - forced Poland's existing zootechnics legislation to be adapted in this respect. The entry into force of that Regulation has resulted in the repeal of most existing European Union legislation on zootechnics, which have been implemented in the current law. Leaving the existing provisions of the Act in view of the direct effects of the application of Regulation 2016/1012 taking precedence over the law would result in a conflict. Hence, given the magnitude of the changes, the need to adopt a new law. The draft agrees with the provisions of the regulation relating, as the Minister mentioned, to species such as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae, with the provisions of our law, which further regulates the organisation of breeding and breeding in respect of other livestock species such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer. In addition, in line with the demands of breeders, it is proposed to supplement the list of livestock with alpaca and mulberry silks. The most important changes that will ensure the correct application of the Regulation will, first, include the elimination from Polish legislation of rules on the keeping of breeding books and records of breeding pigs, rules on the entry of animals in those books and registers, rules on the performance and genetic evaluation of those animal species, requirements on pure-bred breeding animals used for breeding and breeding, the marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and their biological material intended for reproduction, and the way in which official controls are carried out. Secondly, this is an indication of the bodies and institutions which will have powers and powers in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This is the minister responsible for agriculture, who will have a number of competences, as well as the National Animal Breeding Centre, which in turn will carry out official controls. Thirdly, the introduction of rules on rules on the keeping of breeding books and records, on performance and genetic evaluation and on requirements for breeding animals of species such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer, i.e. those species which are not included in the Union Regulation, and the addition of the list of farmed animals with alpacas and mulberry silks. Fourthly, this is the introduction of substantive provisions providing a legal basis for State aid for the keeping of livestock books and the assessment of the performance and genetic value of livestock. Finally, the introduction of transitional provisions. We consider the bill presented as a good tool to meet the objective of adapting to EU legislation and to ensure the continuity of livestock farming, keeping livestock books and registers and assessing the performance and genetic value of animals. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr Boris. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u374	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This draft law is an important element that comprehensively regulates the breeding and breeding of all livestock species that are actually included in the large Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe together with all implementing acts that concern animal species such as cattle, pigs, goats and equidae and all of our national regulations that concern animals such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer. This law fully regulates this order. This is one of the major laws that replaces the previous laws. She was properly consulted as a government project. As the Minister mentioned, also notified to the European Commission and the European Parliament, so it is well prepared, although a little late, because several attempts have already been made to put this law on the agenda. In fact, the bill regulates all areas of breeding, performance evaluation, genetic evaluation, the keeping of such important breeding books, breeding records for pigs and registers for other economic animals, the protection of genetic resources, as well as the supervision of breeding and development of all animal species. It is in the interest of animal welfare in Poland, different species. It has been very strongly delegated to this institution, the National Animal Breeding Centre, which will exercise official control over these matters, including the keeping of breeding books, breeding registers. It is important that Poland signed the Convention on Biological Diversity in 1996 in Rio de Janeiro. in 1992 That also obliges us to do certain things. Important institutions have been designated: Institute of Zootechnics - State Research Institute in Cracow, National Bank of Biological Materials, a number of institutions involved. The Act also regulates a number of elements such as the organizers of horse competitions, the introduction of equidae originating in the territory of the Republic of Poland and others, as regards the regulations of breeding books - many elements that facilitate communication in a similar way with European standards and in some way sanction these relations in a similar way as regards the issues of the European Union. We will, of course, be working on this bill. This is a necessary bill, well prepared, as I mentioned, consulted. We will check whether the institutions designated for specific inspections such as the National Animal Breeding Centre have specific financial resources and specific human resources to meet all new requirements. The project does not raise any controversy. We will still want to discuss this in detail at the committee meeting, probably agriculture. I stress once again: this is one of the major, major laws that regulates this. We'll be listening to the social side. The preliminary assessment of this law at this stage is, of course, positive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u375	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Kulasek will present the position of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This submission is a government draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. This project includes all existing arrangements for carrying out performance and breeding evaluation, breeding books and hybrid registers and State control of this activity. The draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding is intended to replace the current law of 29 June 2007 on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. This law regulates the breeding and breeding of all livestock in a comprehensive manner. The need for a new regulation is due to changes at European level. In particular, following the adoption of Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and hybrid breeding pigs within the Union and trade in, and introduction into, the territory of the Union of their biological material for breeding and introduction into the Union. The European Union Regulation 2016/1012 entered into force on 1 November 2018. As this Regulation applies directly in the Member States, it was necessary to amend the 2007 Act. In addition, in line with the demands of the breeders, the list of farmed animals with alpacas and mulberry silks has been supplemented in order to allow the breeding of those species to be carried out in a manner so far appropriate to the livestock referred to in the Act of 29 June 2007. The Left appreciates this change positively. It is worth mentioning that the project provides financial State aid for the keeping of livestock books and the assessment of the useful and genetic value of livestock. The Left approaches this solution with approval. The law is scheduled to be implemented in the next 10 years between 79 and 94 million PLN per year. The project is related to the implementation of European law and therefore the Left will support the Government's submission. However, we have two comments that recommend the consideration of the members of the agricultural committee. The first issue that raises particular concern is the issue of authorising breeding books and registers to bodies independent of the government. The state should trust such organizations, but it should also effectively supervise and control them so that the quality of genetic material of Polish breeding animals does not deteriorate. This is a fundamental issue which should be the subject of reflection by the Committee on Agriculture. The second issue that raises doubts is the need to inform the Minister of Agriculture often annually in advance of his willingness to organise horse competitions. We are talking about the provision contained in the article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. The intentions here are probably noble. However, let us consider whether such a high advance is necessary in all competitions. In view of the nature of the government project, adapting national legislation to the acquis of the European Communities, the Left Club will vote in favour of directing the project to work in the Sejm committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the governmental draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. That law shall primarily serve to apply Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and hybrid breeding pigs within the Union and the trade in and introduction into the territory of the Union of their biological material used for breeding. High Izbo! Today's bill assumes several important changes in the Polish legal system in the field of livestock breeding and breeding. Firstly, the act aims to ensure continuity in the keeping of breeding books for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals and breeding records for pigs, as well as the performance and genetic evaluation of the species mentioned above. Secondly, the Act will ensure continuity of livestock farming essential for the Polish economy, but not included in the EU Regulation. We're talking about fur animals, deer animals, bees and poultry. In addition, the Act sets out requirements for animals used for breeding. Thirdly, this draft law proposes supplementing the list of livestock with alpaca and mulberry silks. The proposed provisions allow the breeding of these animals to be carried out in a manner appropriate for livestock. Fourthly, the contested draft law gives new powers to the Minister responsible for agriculture. The Minister will be able to approve breeding programmes carried out by recognised breed societies and breeding companies. It will also have the possibility of being recognised as breed societies and breeding undertakings of breeders' organisations or other entities which apply for the keeping of breeding books for bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals and breeding records of pigs. This right stems directly from the preamble to the EU Regulation 2016/1012, where we can read: The right to be recognised as a breed society or breeding establishment meeting certain criteria should be a fundamental principle of Union animal husbandry law and a fundamental principle of the internal market. The protection of the economic activity of an existing recognised breed society should not justify a refusal by the competent authority to recognise another breed society for the same breed or to violate the rules governing the internal market. Fifthly, the Act will introduce detailed rules which will be the basis for providing assistance in the keeping of breeding books, as well as for assessing the performance and genetic value of livestock. This aid will be granted indirectly, in the form of subsidised services consisting in the keeping of breeding books (aid at a rate of up to 100%) costs) and evaluation of the performance or breeding value of animals (aid at a rate of up to 70% costs). High Izbo! There is no doubt that this law will have a positive impact on the Polish economy. The provisions proposed in the Regulation concerning the area of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae, which are more transparent, will apply in all Member States of the European Union. The harmonisation of legislation in the area of livestock farming will eliminate differences in existing legislation in the Member States and thus facilitate trade in breeding animals and biological material from them. The harmonisation of rules and the facilitation of trade between the Member States of the European Union should be a priority in times of crisis in the agricultural sector caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. As a result of the pandemic crisis, Polish farmers and meat producers were and are still in a critical economic situation, which requires the support of the Polish state and the European Union. At the same time, I would like to point out that this law in the article. 52 has one flaw. This provision specifies how much money year by year will be spent on the activities of the National Animal Breeding Centre. During the first 3 years, this amount was set at a constant (Bell) of 79 368 thousand. It is only in 2023 that it rises to 81 million. According to Eurostat data, inflation in Poland was 3.8% in June 2020. which was the biggest indicator throughout the European Union. In terms of rising prices, we significantly exceed other countries, as average inflation in the European Union was 0.8%. Given the above mentioned circumstances, I believe that the proposed legislation will have a positive impact on the livestock sector. Thank you, sir. The Polish People's Party has always stood and will stand on the side of farmers, therefore the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u380	The best developed branch of the Polish economy under PiS is bureaucracy. I think we are persistently pursuing a model in which even half of Polish GDP will be produced by citizens of officials, bureaucrats in form of forms, applications, papers, books, registers, extracts, acts, applications, etc. Big Brother wants to know everything. He wants to know the family tree of every cow, even now of every alpaca. We've already heard about animal chipping today, maybe we should just give you the barcodes, GPS transmitters and IDs right away. Why so limited? Some have probably already changed their legs to count all the world and apply to people these achievements that we will now test on animals. I think we'll see a time when every hair on a citizen's head will be counted by Big Brother. If anyone wants to register breeding, they can do it without statutory coercion. And if someone doesn't want to and doesn't need to, I really don't understand why we have to force them to do it by law. If the buyers appreciate animals from documented breeding, and probably so, then simply those who do not keep such books risk losing their animals to value, but these are their animals, their risk. Unless, as part of the expansion of animal rights, we believe that animals have the right to be expensive and have the right to meet their parents. The government really doesn't have to regulate what animals are suitable for breeding and what are not. All these animal breeds that have emerged in the world have appeared without government regulations. People have managed for thousands of years to turn wild tours into cows, wild forest animals into pigs, dangerous wolves into such nice, fart-like dogs. And they did it because the royal officials didn't stand over them and tell them how to raise cows or dogs or pigs. I don't think there's any reason for us to expand this bureaucratic machine so that we can generate more jobs for civil servants, find jobs for more bureaucrats. I won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u381	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At a strange moment we came to discuss the law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding, because just on the day, on the black day on which PiS decided to hit livestock breeding, hit the Polish livestock industry. It is ironic that I read about this fact in the professional drafting of this law. Let me quote: The new rules ensure continuity of livestock farming. Do you hear that? At the same time, you're proposing regulations for the breeding industry, which you're killing at the same time. It's completely inconsistent. But it is hardly surprising, since we have just learned that your agricultural minister has left the ruling party after he had previously written a letter to your party members, to the Members, calling for you to remember not to do what you are going to do at the moment, that is to say, to hit the Polish breeding industry, to breed poultry, to breed cattle which, after religious slaughter, are exported to the Muslim markets, to the Jewish markets, where Poland is the leading exporter and where 30/40% Depending on which animal we take, which kind of meat, this meat, which is produced in Poland, are going to export just with certificates of religious slaughter. You're hitting Polish breeding. You are hitting the profitability of breeding production in Poland. You are hitting the already destabilised market and prices that have collapsed after the epidemic, following the fall in demand in gastronomy, in hotels, across European and non-European markets to which we export. And today you're proposing rules that regulate animal reproduction in detail. This is ridiculous. My appeal to the ruling party: come to your senses, withdraw from your betrayal of the village, withdraw from your hybrid war against Polish agriculture, from your hybrid war against Polish breeders and against the Polish meat industry, which is very strongly conditioned by the rules that you are currently trying to impose and turn into the wrong direction. The regulation of the reproduction of mulberry silks or the addition of recipes for some breeding books or addition to the list of alpaca species, which Dobromir Sośnierz just pointed out, are not the strategic challenges of Polish agriculture. The strategic challenge of Polish agriculture today is to keep it from being disturbed by stupid, self-absorbed, delicious, proud politicians (the bell) that you have shown yourselves today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u383	However, I would like you to measure your words. Please don't comment. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. You are the first question to be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft legislation on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding despite the comments made by the main veterinarian does not include llamas as livestock. On the other hand, he considers nutria, ostriches, polar foxes, and even alpacas to be such. It should be made clear that llama and alpaca belong to the same South American family of camel animals. Answer me the question of why this is a decision. Why and what are llamas worse than alpacas? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Urbaniak withdrew the question. The list of MEPs has therefore been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Simon Giżyński, will answer the questions raised and doubts. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u386	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Izbo! There are a few questions of substance. If I have noted correctly, Mr Marcin Kulasek still touched on the issue of publishing breeding books in his club's statement. There is a very clear separation between the independence of breeding, which is, after all, an independent issue of relationships - and it should be so, and we respect it - and the supervision, and this is the supervision of the state, of course, of a completely independent position, just as the procedures and methods of breeding which they establish in their scope and in their competence are independent. The State Institute, which conducts supervision and control, is the National Centre for Animal Breeding. This request, which was mentioned by the Member, is fully met. There was also a raised question about horse competitions, which are supposed to be announced a year before their date or willingness to perform them. This is not the case, because by 31 October, interested persons and associations - as is sometimes also said: actors - must indicate their projects to the Ministry of Agriculture, which relate to next year. The Ministry of Agriculture is obliged until the end of the year, i.e. in practically two months, to suspend the list of professions on the website of the Ministry. So that's what they are. Two months, not a whole year. I think that these were the main problems, the most important ones and containing cognitive curiosity and quality at the same time. Mr Marek Rutka spoke about llamas. There was simply no such request. The unions that maybe do this didn't want to put it in our bill that's being processed right now. There were no such requests, and therefore it was unobtrusive at the moment, also as an objection and as a request. There were such statements, the latter, which I will not comment on because they had a completely different character: ideological, political. We focus on substantive issues concerning proposals that have been dealt with in serious club speeches. The state was not talking about controversy here, because there are no controversies, but completely pragmatically pointed to some benefits and certain - what is most important in fact in all laws and laws - the obvious. We talked about the obvious here. Such an obvious fact, which also concerns Mr Sosnierz's statement, is that breeding is a planned, knowledge-based action, and knowledge is simply accumulated. And that's something you can't blame anyone for building up knowledge and making it available to others to the greatest extent possible. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u387	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the organisation of livestock farming and breeding contained in print No 512 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 6 October 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing (print No 534). I kindly ask the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. Come in, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure of presenting a law that concerns a problem that Poland is trying to measure in a more or less effective way since independence was regained in 1919. The problem of housing shortage, overpopulation of housing, the inadequateness of the housing base to the needs of society has indeed already emerged and repeated attempts to measure with it have not produced satisfactory results. The present time is absolutely the best time for more than 40 years when it comes to giving up the number of apartments on the market. That record year last year, that's 207 grand. The paid-up apartments are similar to those that were last achieved in 1980. Despite the difficult, crisis situation, it seems that this year will be as good as last year. At the same time, we are aware that the apartments that are placed on the market do not meet all the needs or do not respond to all the needs that are presently associated with the lack of housing in the market. According to our estimates, the Ministry of Development estimates, about 60% households, i.e. around 8.5 million households, have no credit standing today and around 4% , i.e. almost 2 million households, in 2018 shared an apartment with someone else, with a second household. These are data that require immediate address. In the package that we have prepared here, which is the first package of solutions, we have applied this approach because we are convinced that today there is no single key to solving all housing problems, because there are at least a few of them. As we well know, there is a lack of housing, there is insufficient stock of municipal housing, and those that are, need to be renovated. There are no apartments and there are actually no housing solutions, I am thinking of a stable, long-term lease, of good quality in housing, giving a guarantee and the possibility of decent housing to those who do not have rent capacity. There is also a shortage of support instruments, and they are insufficient, for those who cannot fully afford to pay rent, and those opportunities for rental support, which are, need to be sorted out. In the package that we have prepared and which I am pleased to present to you today, we are trying to address a significant part of these problems. Above all, we are trying to improve and accelerate the process of creating a social housing resource. We hope that the long-term leases created by these instruments will be primarily an offer for those who have insufficient income today. We also know that the social model and the housing model are changing a lot. On the one hand, through mobility, the bonding of long-term loans and the experience of franchise loans make today young people or those who start their professional life less willing, less willing to enter into long-term credit obligations, which often generate obligations for 30 years, and in the horizon, for example. 5, 7 years may lead to a situation in which the house purchased in this mode is insufficient for the needs of the growing e.g. family. Therefore, the solutions prepared by us include almost all social and municipal housing laws. Importantly, this project was created in cooperation, in partnership, in dialogue with local governments, because without cooperation with local governments of a large, mass housing programme, we are convinced of this and cannot be realised. What changes do we make? We introduce mostly in construction... In the area of rental construction, we are introducing a new legal entity, i.e. social housing initiatives. As part of social housing initiatives, housing will be created with very important support. Who's gonna be the contractor? It will be able to be the contractor of a municipal company, a TBS type company. If there are no such companies in cities, and we know that especially in smaller towns there are housing needs, but there are no such companies, then such a company will be able to establish a city, with the participation of the National Resource Real estate or this function will be able to fulfil the National Property Resources. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This entity will be able to obtain funding up to 35% the value of the investment. In addition, if the municipality does not stand and this will not be sufficient, an additional 10% will be able to bring in the National Property Resources from the special fund set up for this purpose. Within the framework of social housing initiatives under 25 years, i.e. around the time of repayment of the loan incurred for the implementation of this project, those who have paid a participation fee will be able to convert their share into property or take a credit holiday. The conversion into ownership will only be possible if the participation is at least 20% or 25% in big cities. If the contribution is minimal, i.e. 10%, then this conversion into ownership will not be possible. This is an important element, giving the possibility - as I said - of a long-term, stable lease, while at the same time, if it is the will of those who will participate in the undertaking, to gain ownership. We also provide a very important instrument of support for municipal construction. Today there is no significant instrument of support for mobilising, motivating local governments or giving local governments the opportunity to implement such investments. We increase the possible financial support for such investments: from 35% to 55% and from 50% to 60% if we are talking about historic buildings. Today, as I said, there is really no such measure, and after consulting local governments, we know that these are instruments that will allow local governments to implement municipal investments. What's more, in terms of support for those most in need, because community housing is for those most in need: if the municipality carries out a social housing initiative project, which I have just discussed, some of the apartments will want to make available to the communal residents - we imagine that they are the residents who are gaining, they are getting back on their feet - and they will want to move them to such apartments, and we know that the rent is higher there, then they will be able to use the scheme fund for the start-up to pay the delta between the value of the communal apartment and the rent from the social housing initiative. So we're expanding the range of available apartments for those most in need. We also enable public benefit organisations to implement investments such as: accommodation, which is de facto not possible today. Accommodation rooms can be built by NGOs. We also widen the scope of the scheme, we introduce the form of support: the financing for rent if the sub-rental party is the municipality that rents the apartment built on the basis of the program directly from the investor, as well as the tenants of the apartments located in the renovated buildings, as well as located outside the revitalization zone. We also include the owners of housing books in the priority criteria for the selection of applications for the conclusion of a rental contract under the scheme In this way we also create a special path for all those owners, of whom we do not have full knowledge today, we do not know how many there are yet to be. It is this special, preferential path for them. We're finally building up as part of the National Property Resources... The National Property Resource is not only a land bank but also an active investor in the area of social housing. KZN was first of all equipped under this law with the land of the National Agricultural Support Centre and on these land KZN can carry out social construction itself or create companies with municipalities and together with municipalities carry out residential construction. We also set up a Social Housing Initiative Fund with an initial value of PLN 1.5 billion. The funds from this fund KZN will be able to finance housing investments undertaken jointly with local governments or in some places where, as I said, there are no such entities, it will finance the investments itself. As regards support for those who are receiving housing allowances today, we are simplifying the rules for determining the income of the applicant entitled to receive the grant under the scheme. This is a net rather than a gross amount, which makes it much easier, and above all it is the awareness of the beneficiary that he is eligible for support. Importantly, during the pandemic, we exclude housing allowances from chamber and administrative executions. We are also building new forms of financial support for households to bear housing expenditure. This is a special solution related to the pandemic situation, COVID. All tenants who have been particularly affected by the COVID pandemic, i.e. those who have recorded a significant loss in budgets and income, may benefit from the aid for housing allowances. We're talking about a drop if we're registering a 25% reduction in revenue year by year. Such an allowance will be available for a period of 6 months, its value will not exceed 75% the value of the rent and will not be more than 1,5 thousand. zł. An additional, important element... We are aware that we can increase the number of apartments in the market not only because of land or investment activity, but also because of the simplification of the investment process. This one needs a quick digitalization today. We piloted this process on August 1, when in dozens of powiats in Poland we digitized The first eight forms and we tested the efficiency here. Because of the changes we are making here, this process is becoming legal. Today we are talking about the first eight investment activities, and by the end of the year this change will digitize the entire investment process, including the possibility of digital delivery of open-ended construction projects. In the whole investment process, i.e. when the project changes repeatedly, communication with the office will also be possible online. This is a very important change and a milestone in shortening the investment process. High Izbo! After long internal analyses, as well as discussions with local authorities, with the market and with social organisations today bringing together those who need housing most, I am convinced that this solution is expected and desirable. This solution is applied in many countries of the European Union. Resources of this type, i.e. flats with moderate rent e.g. France accounts for around 15% all apartments on the market and 50% all the apartments for rent. Such municipal companies, which offer quality apartments for long-term rental, are important: good investment quality, based on Swedish, Scandinavian, German or Iberian models. We adapt and adopt them to Polish customs, Polish law and Polish habits, which, as I said, change significantly. This is, as I say, the first housing package for social construction, before us is another one that we already have included in the list of work of the Council of Ministers, which addresses the problems of individual market construction and creates new forms of realization of housing investments. I hope that these two large pillars, housing components, will be able to close in the Sejm by the end of this year, so that, from next year, the investments carried out with our support and under this new legislative regime are key, at least a few keys, to solving the housing problem, which is a condition of freedom and security so much needed during the crisis period, which is the period associated with the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u389	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Paluch will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of my club, the Law and Justice Club, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing, print no. 534. This project includes solutions that will support municipal and social construction of rental buildings, as well as a solution addressed directly to households setting out forms of financial support for housing expenditure. High Izbo! The National Housing Programme, adopted by the Government of PiS in 2016, established inter alia. improving the availability of housing by stimulating new housing investments in the area of rental housing. Financial support instruments aimed at stimulating new housing investments, on the one hand, are intended to have a social impact, increasing housing resources for low- and medium-sized citizens and, on the other hand, to stimulate investment at the moment, which means more jobs and mitigate the economic slowdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. High Izbo! The most important instruments for the support of municipal and social housing are laid down in the laws. The first is the Act of 8 December 2006 on financial support for the creation of residential premises for rent, shelters and shelters for homeless, heating rooms and temporary premises. This bill introduced among others. a non-refundable programme to finance part of the cost of housing investment from the Dollar Fund. Let me remind you that the Government of Law and Justice of that time treated local governments as an important partner in the implementation of housing policy. I think that this look is also reflected in the legal act that we are beginning to work on. The second of these laws standardising legal issues in housing policy is the Act of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of housing promotion. This law introduced e.g. the programme of preferential loans subject to interest subsidies from the State budget which are granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. However, in history, as we will see, this government support was not permanent, because unfortunately in 2009 the government of PSL and PO abolished the National Housing Fund and such statutory arrangements concerning preferential forms of financing did not adhere to the real situation in which there was no fund and there was no financial support from the government. Only the Government of the United Rights reactivated in 2016 the preferential loan scheme granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego on the basis of state budget funds, so-called. the SBC programme, i.e. budgetary interest subsidies. Further legislative changes towards simplification of the rules for improving flexibility of solutions were made in the years 2017 and 2019. High Izbo! These solutions - there is very little time and I cannot get into solutions that include the law, to explore - are among others.: introducing new rules for the settlement of the measures involved by the tenant in the construction of the apartment, periodic or complete settlement of participation by the tenant, repealing the absolute prohibition on the ownership and disposal of residential premises built with the support of preferential SBC loans, introducing the possibility of obtaining ownership of the apartment on the basis of institutional rentals with access to ownership, including the settlement of participation, creating the possibility to transfer ownership rights of the residential premises built using government support schemes, with the consent of TBS, of course, when settling the market value of the apartment for those tenants who had a contract to participate in construction costs, as well as the fulfilment of maximum rent limits, or the introduction of the possibility for employers or non-governmental organisations to rent or make housing available to natural persons. High Izbo! This project establishes new support instruments for local authorities, among others. a non-refundable programme to finance part of the housing investment costs from the BGK Payment Fund, depending on the type of project up to 50% of the costs. Activities such as construction, renovation, reconstruction, change of use of the building, participation in an investment carried out by TBS or a private investor will be supported in order to obtain apartments for rent, shelters, intervention premises, temporary accommodation facilities, heating rooms, etc. In short, there will be an increase in expenditure on the renovation of the existing municipal building stock. High Izbo! This project is a comprehensive regulation which complements the existing legislative action to build a multi-directional, comprehensive housing policy and create synergies between the different impacts of these rules. The project amends 24 laws, among others. Act - Construction Law (Book), Real Estate Management Act, Housing Cooperatives Act, Housing Supplements Act, in the aforementioned two laws of 1995 and 2006. My club, club Law and Justice, is for immediate urgent, energetic work in the Committee on Infrastructure on a project presented by the government to improve the housing situation of Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u391	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! My previous speaker said that the Law and Justice government has been building housing for five years. Ha, ha, ha! You can sum up this speech, saying, "You've been stimulating for five years, and there's no movement of housing here. [[Applause]] Because housing policy is certainly not a success for the PiS government. All ministers and vice-ministers who were involved in this area have fallen. Today we are launching a debate on an important presentation. I don't deny it, but Kisiel just said that tea doesn't get sweeter than mixing, but it doesn't get sweeter than adding sugar. Today we are dealing with another project which, according to the title, concerns some laws supporting the development of housing, but it is not really about one law, two, three laws, four, five laws. In fact, we're talking more than 20 normative acts. The question arises as to whether it is not such another confusion in this cup of tea, from which the mixing it will not become sweeter. Only six of these laws are law by law and justice. Let's ask how they work, because in order to do the task that we are starting right now, that is to consider this bill, we need to assess how the regulations you have proposed so far work. We need to know the cause of the failure of the housing+ programme. The government must answer the question of why the National Housing Programme did not bring the announced results. Members of the opposition expect the government during this debate in the Sejm to explain to the voters why 100,000 were announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki during the election convention in April 2018. The apartments were created by less than a thousand. Unless the data has changed a little bit, I'm asking you to correct it, but the journalists have recently verified this announcement, and a thousand haven't counted. We should also get an explanation of why the National Property Resources did not become a source of success - we have warned against this, warned against this also the former Minister of Construction, and later the President of BGK Real Estate Mr Mirosław Barszcz - and why after 5 years of government PiS still does not have the announced construction code. After all, there are many barriers in the process of preparing investments. The state sitting in government benches today may not know this, but during the previous term, members of the Committee on Infrastructure were invited by Minister Adamczyk to the Ministry, where they presented with a great pump the establishment of the future building code. It was only supposed to be a matter of weeks. Young citizens are also waiting for the word'sorry' from the Government of Law and Justice because you have abolished the program 'Abode for the Young', and 'Abomination for the start', your program, does not bring the expected results. Today we have a situation where a pandemic is looking for new solutions. We will support those on digitalisation of the investment process, those on [[♪ The bell ♪]] some new solutions - also. We will want to strengthen the position of tenants, including those who own apartments in multi-dwelling buildings, because today, in a fight with managers, they do not have an equivalent position, and they deserve it. We will work solidly in the subcommittee, because we propose that the subcommittee should work on this comprehensive piece of legislation. But we're waiting for the answers to the questions I asked. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u393	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Health care, wages, housing are one of the most important problems of Poles and Poles today. These areas are key challenges that all of us as politicians should face in the interests of prosperity and the future of citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, looking at the collapse in these areas over the past few years, I have no doubt that both the current and previous governments treat these issues as stepmothers. And I even know why. Because it doesn't concern you. The Minister of Health or the Prime Minister doesn't wait two years for knee surgery. Sons and Daughters of Ministers They don't know what it means to rent a little room from someone. That's all a young person can afford for the first few years of working for a job, but you don't know it because your wives, husbands, relatives, or hairdressers in Treasury companies earn in a month what a young person earns in a year. The housing situation in Poland is very bad, it is a fact. It is obvious that programmes must be implemented to support and develop housing in our country. The Left will always support such solutions. But these must be wise solutions. A good housing program must be like a house - have solid foundations and a rigid frame. Unfortunately, you are building a house of cards that will blow away the first storm of a stronger wind, not the first time. In the discussion of the current bill, it is difficult not to refer to the flagship programme, which the current authority has tried, calling it the government's housing+ programme, which has been severely criticised even by experts sympathetic to the PiS. Frequent changes to the concept of the programme, poorly prepared by the Ministry, led to the first two years of operation of the programme being considered lost - we read in a report prepared for the government. So where's the 100,000 and even 200,000? apartments that Prime Minister Morawiecki was just talking about? Where are the numerous investments that would secure the enormous hunger for housing in our country? Today, these families were to receive the keys to new apartments. Why are you silent about this? Where are those noisy press conferences about your success and cutting more ribbons on finite construction sites? I understand that shame always covers itself with a curtain of silence. This is the reality of today, and the government is again giving us another law on housing support, which unfortunately is not free of many flaws. The scope of the proposed project is very wide and, on the other hand, it does not reach the most deprived. In our view, great controversy is the possibility of disposing of buildings built with the support of public funds, i.e. disposing of public wealth. And let us remember that the responsibility to collect such property rests with the municipality. Furthermore, it is wrong in our view to exclude people who have fallen into debt from seeking housing allowances, i.e. those who would need it most. It is also unfair to exclude from the possibility of applying for housing allowances for persons in over-the-counter premises or persons with disabilities who need additional premises. We know how difficult it is to get a replacement apartment in the municipality today, hence those with communal housing and unable to get out of it fall into another loop of debt. More than 600 thousand are missing in Poland. Apartments, and with parents, live almost 2 million young Poles. We have no apartments, although the apartments are built, but who can afford them? So if you take into account the very number of apartments you build, it's pretty good here. Ba, we are even European leaders. However, ordinary Poles, especially young people, cannot simply afford to live in them. And the current building boom is made to a large extent by those who treat apartments as a deposit of capital. And there is little evidence that the situation is about to change, yet the right to live is the right to a decent life. The right to housing is a human right enshrined in the Constitution. I know, you guys have a problem with her, but let me quote her. Let's hope this doesn't end in reprimand. Art. 75 Constitutions: Public authorities pursue policies to meet citizens' housing needs, in particular to combat homelessness and promote the development of social housing. So finally start fulfilling your basic constitutional obligations and finally do something not only for yourselves but also for the citizens. And one more to finish. The word "family" is changed by all cases. You want to defend and support Polish families, then in the first [[♪ The bell ♪]] Instead of pissing on fellow citizens, do your utmost to ensure that young people who dream of starting a family have a place to live and a place to raise their children. As for the project itself, it is because there are so many doubts and controversy that the Left will make amendments to this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u395	Thank you, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u396	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government bill amending certain laws supporting the development of housing, print No 534. I'm going out on the stand again today, and I'd like to say a few good words. You don't give us the opportunity to say anything good. [[Applause]] We hear your promises, we see posts, presentations, you're very good at planning. But why aren't you able to show off a little success in some field since 2015? Earlier we heard the Prime Minister say: we are building, building success is, housing is building. Yeah, they're building developers for huge loans in banks for decades. Not even a few, a dozen, but a dozen. The government housing development fund through the National Property Resources will want to spend PLN 1.5 billion in the near future. We can see that the government's residential project +, which started in 2017, the government of Law and Justice announced that thousands of cheap apartments with very low rents will be created as a result of it. Annually, 100, 200 and 300 thousand were to be created. The apartments, the rent was supposed to be low. It all ended in a complete failure. You are talking about the Bank of National Farms. From the bank's main website: For nearly 20 years Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has been supporting rent construction. Until 2009, there was a National Housing Fund from which BGK granted preferential loans for investment projects. One of your colleagues took him out, sir. After the liquidation of the fund, the bank continues to support the social construction sector by offering commercial products. In total, nearly 102 thousand were created. rental apartments financed by the former KFM and as part of the commercial activity of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If the predecessors have been shut down, what have you been doing since 2015? You criticize everything. Just show me one success. Today, we see that there will be a lot of support, an increase in non-refundable support for municipalities, for local governments from the Dollar Fund funded by the state budget. It will also increase to 50% support from the Aids Fund for the modernisation of municipal resources, renovation bonuses for old buildings under TBS. The announcements are very much, but the truth is that today you want to share responsibility with local governments, because if you succeed, it will be your success if you fail, the local governments will fail. I mean, local governments are guilty of everything. You have the best ideas, brilliant solutions, only when it comes to realization, you lack strength, will and ideas. That's what it all looks like, unfortunately. This is really a good time to see how some local governments are doing on this issue. Municipal apartments are being built, maybe not too much, but even in small rural and urban communities such apartments are being built today. I invite you to the Podlaskie Voivodeship because there are such examples. You can go, see how it's done. If you're just gonna promise and pack the product in a new package... Because you're just lying to the people. You need to change the name, you need to do a new presentation, preferably in PowerPoint, with beautiful pictures. Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Emilevich will come in and say: new things we promise Poles. All of Poland should cheer you up, so we will cheer you up. We will also propose amendments, but we will support them. If you want to build a place, build a place. Hopefully not the accommodation houses that were so much about, because if you're planning to build accommodation houses and shelters, it unfortunately indicates something. I'm terrified when I hear they're gonna build a place to stay. You do not know the competence of the municipalities, sir. I know exactly what you're talking about, my fellow Member. So that we will support, but we will propose our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u397	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u398	For the development of housing, it's enough for you not to disturb. State aid is always at someone's expense, so if there is an area we need to help, there must also be an area that we can harm. If there's someone we want to help, there's got to be someone we're gonna hurt. Someone's got to be taken from. This illusion of raising yourself standing in a bucket is still present here. I'll explain again. This cannot be done if we are standing in a bucket, i.e. raise yourself with your own hands above the ground. It's not gonna work. From mixing tea, you won't get sweeter than sugar. It happens. I repeat just after Mr Grabarczyk, but repeat never too much, because I see that you still do not understand. You keep repeating the same myth of broken glass in new editions, so I'm explaining why this isn't gonna work. In order to stimulate the economy with money alone, we assume the existence of some perpetuum mobile. The economy doesn't get richer than you take one and the other. The economy gets bigger, it grows, we get rich, because we work more, we make something. This way we don't make anything. Why are we supporting rents? Today's rent, and tomorrow someone will come and ask why not cars, not clothes, not food, anything else. After all, this is some arbitrary distribution again. One at the expense of the other. People just have to leave money, not take it and give it back. In this way we reward combinatorship, we create an economy where it pays more to fill out forms, simulate losses, stand in queues to offices than to work. We reward those who live beyond the state and then raise their hands for what they can't afford later, as it turns out. The one who pays higher rent according to this project wins more on your lottery because he can get more from the state at the expense of those who were saving money and renting a smaller apartment. We're removing further prudential barriers. Now, in order to apply for funding, we have to show that we can afford rent. It's not for ransom, it's for rent. Now he will be able to apply for this kind of funding, who can't afford either rent or apartment. What does that lead to? What do you encourage people to do this way? I would also point out that 25%, which is the required loss to be incurred as a result of peri-pandemic activities, will in many cases be more than PLN 1500, which can be obtained in return. A lot of people can just make money out of it, 'cause when it comes to 25%, salary, if they lose, in most cases it will be less than PLN 1500 surcharge for this rent on your part. Then let's not repeat it. Don't make me come out of here again, I have to say the same thing, about this bucket, about raising my hair above the ground. Enough to learn from it. Stop being in those socialist myths. Let the Poles make money. Stop taking them away, you won't have to give anything back. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u399	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have four specific questions about this bill. Firstly, the government's debt to Poles in relation to housing books amounts to PLN 600 million at the moment. In terms of this guarantee premium, this sum will rise to up to PLN 9 billion. On the other hand, the catalogue of investments that can be implemented is rather vague. My question is: Will there be investments in this catalogue such as home sewage treatment plants, photovoltaic panels and heat pumps? The second point concerns a project which in its original version contained a provision allowing municipalities to apply to the Ministry of Justice and repeatedly, unlimited and free of charge to use resources, the search for perpetual books to analyse the housing needs of the local government community. Why was this bill removed from the bill? Another issue is the definition of a linear object. The one you're introducing right now will cause [[♪ The bell ♪]] part of telecommunications facilities will no longer be construction sites and therefore municipalities will lose property tax. Do you intend to compensate the municipalities for the absence of this tax? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u401	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Minister Emilevich! First of all, I wanted to address your comments. You're bragging about not your success. You're talking about a record year of 2019 in terms of dedicated apartments, but they've been handed over by private developers. State aid could not be counted on. You know very well that the apartment+ has turned out to be a complete failure. That's not the point, I have the impression that to what I heard five years ago, four years ago, in your previous term at the moment, you put a carbon and you say exactly the same thing, just a little bit in other words. We've already heard the exact same passwords, almost the same program only with other names and it turned out to be a failure. I wanted to refer to the current project. I must say that I am satisfied that what we reported in January, when the construction law was changed, you now present as your ideas. Then we applied for an electronic version. [[♪ The bell ♪]] documents - I am glad that this has been consummated - and for more help for the social housing society. It's too bad it lasted six months, and you're just now admitting that you're right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u403	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Draft Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing in Art. 7 the words of the social housing association TBS replace the words of the social housing initiative, the abbreviation SIM. What is the purpose of this change? Is it about changing the name of TBS to SIM, or is it supposed to create a new entity to build apartments? The Act does not explicitly indicate third parties that may conclude agreements with SIM on participation in the construction costs of dwellings. Will the lack of this term not create concerns and hamper the development of the housing design? Why to a group of entities carrying out investments in conjunction with the National Resource Real estate did not include housing cooperatives, which are prepared to carry out such investments (the bell), their maintenance and management? We need to reach out to housing cooperatives and take advantage of their achievements, maybe not in this project, but in the next one, because they are experienced entities who have dealt with the subject of housing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It must be acknowledged that some of the amendments you wish to make do not raise any objections. As usual, however, the devil is in the details. Does any change in the bill have to be the same as the extra hidden costs? This time it's cost to tenants. In addition to the rent, the tenant will additionally have to bear a number of additional costs, which were included in the rental fees before the proposed change. These additional costs relate inter alia. installation and maintenance, thermomodernization, construction of facilities for persons with disabilities and regeneration, the costs of which were usually covered by the municipalities. Now they will be covered by the residents. Yesterday, you presented an unpunished+ program. Is today the time for a higher fee+ program? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u407	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your living program is a failure. You don't have the civil courage to admit it. Only 1017 apartments were built. It's a huge shame. Finally, you've prepared a new solution, a bill. You offer surcharges for family rents and subsidies for municipal housing companies, which will allow you to build cheaper apartments. This is the way to go from the very beginning. Nevertheless, I believe that local government units will not have their own resources. It's gonna be hard for them to make a living on their own. You know the situation in local governments, and local government companies are 100% financed by municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to the proposed legislation, the local government will be able to obtain funding for such housing projects of up to 35% of the value of the investment. That's definitely not enough. Thank you. It's a good thing this bill goes to the subcommittee. I hope it will be clarified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u409	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u410	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Once again, the government is trying to resurrect the housing+ program, which turned out to be a spectacular failure. The plans were to build 100,000. apartments, meanwhile, have been built so far, according to the government website, just a little pond 1 000. In recent months, many have lost their jobs or income. Banks are increasingly refusing mortgage loans and housing prices are rising. That is why many Poles and many Poles are waiting for bold government action on housing. Once again, the proposed solutions are based on mechanisms that have not worked before. With regard to housing built by social housing initiatives, there is an attitude to the property investigation process, even though in Polish cities the need for apartments for rentals, which would reduce market rental prices. The Act contains a record of money earmarked [[♪ The bell ♪]] for municipalities - I am already finishing - who have suffered financially. But local governments are warning that it's a drop in the sea of needs. That's why I have a question. According to experts, around 1 million apartments are missing in Poland. Therefore, the question is: What measures does the government intend to take to meet this demand, not on paper, and what does it intend to do to build the apartments where they really are needed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u411	Thank you. Mr Maciej Gdula, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wish the Prime Minister were here because I wanted to commend her. Ha, ha, ha! It belongs to those politicians of the ruling camp who work with a screwdriver rather than an axe. I really like listening to her. But now everyone is asking themselves if there's still a majority of the parliament for this government, so she's certainly exploring the problem too. [[Applause]] I wanted to point out that this project is missing... I mean, there's an element out there that's bothering me. This is an element associated with the transition to ownership. And this is something that might seem fair, because if it was a widely used mechanism, then perhaps it should now be introduced, expanded. If someone has already got the apartment, why should new tenants be deprived of it. But I don't think we're gonna get to what's the fairest solution right now. They're always gonna get hurt. Those who have taken credit will complain that it is now [[♪ The bell ♪]] wider access to municipal housing. I ask: Shouldn't we ask ourselves a technical question in a situation where community and social resources are falling, whether extending this access to the municipal stock increases the availability of housing or not? The point is not to explore justice, but to look at it as a technical issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are also many good things in this project that need to be further worked on. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 is referred to as aid for local authorities of 50% for modernization, renovation of buildings. And that's a very good solution. On the example of the city of Poznań, which spends 163 million annually on such modernizations, one can say that this will be an important injection. But this supplement is addressed only... She's conditioned by the number of premises in the building that are emptied. So if there are 25 premises in the building, five of them are uninhabited, then this surcharge to the modernized building will only be in relation to these five apartments. This makes it worthwhile for local governments to empty these buildings, and even, given the amount of the fees, to rent expensive hotels for expeditioned tenants. So that our motion will go in this direction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the extra payment is simply for renovation and not to cause people to vacate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u415	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't see Prime Minister Emilevich. I don't think she's here. I am not surprised, because if the debate were on housing policy, I would leave this House quickly too if I were Prime Minister. Because today, almost after five years of government, the PiS housing program should go like clockwork. The apartments should go down like a tape and the government should boast of success. But those big announcements were just as big a drink for water. I think it's the seventh or eighth attempt at CPR today. By August 2019 you built 867 apartments, this figure increased to 909 by June 2020. In 10 months, 42 apartments. Your announcements are $100,000. apartments. I don't know how much you're gonna build. So I think the Minister should go first. [[♪ The bell ♪]] come here, explain yourself from this disaster, from this inability, and show us how the analysis of what has so far failed. Because this should be the starting point for working on this bill and subsequent solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u417	Thank you. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u418	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard here the Phillips and the regrets of the opposition Members about the ineffectiveness of our housing policy. And I have a question for you: How is it that the main exponent of your policy, when you ruled Poland for 8 years, was: the liquidation of the National Housing Fund, the liquidation of the family's programme, first the second pillar of the secondary market, then the first pillar, the liquidation of support for municipalities? And let me remind you, Mr PSL, that the construction of sheltered housing, intervention facilities, temporary accommodation facilities is simply an immanent part of the gmina's competence, which must respond in crisis situations. And answer yourselves the question of why the main effect of your housing policy was the reprivatization affair in Warsaw and the problems of the presidents of Gdańsk and Sopot with adding, determining the number of apartments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u419	Thank you very much. And last question, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u420	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Thanks to the changes in the program, the family built 196 thousand on their own. apartments. Thanks to the program, more than 100,000 of them were created for young people. A total of 300,000. apartments. Eight years? This is the contribution of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party to the development of housing. But we have a serious problem because we want to build a lease, and we end up in pandemic space. And I would like to ask if the government is aware of the changes that this brings to the rental market. Only when it comes to one segment, it's about 20%. They're the students because they're the ones who rent the apartments. 63% students declared a change in their situation [[♪ The bell ♪]] related to the renting of apartments. 27% The students surveyed declared that they were resigning from the lease and that they would not benefit from the lease due to the fact that they could now study in a remote system. Thank you. This will have further effects and will make it more difficult to build this crawling market. The details will be discussed at the subcommittee meeting, but this trend should be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mr Robert Nowicki, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister. Mrs. Emilevich, where is she, the author?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u422	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Let me start by referring to the speeches and positions of the clubs. As for what Mr Grabarczyk said about mixing, a metaphor for the lack of sugar has emerged, the lack of this fuel. In our view, the proposed instruments, specific instruments such as the financing of PLN 1 billion per year, plus PLN 1.5 billion this year, are the elements that will allow us to increase the number of apartments. If we are talking here about the number of apartments built under the National Housing Programme, it is impossible not to mention that you are in big error, because it is enough to look at a report on the state of housing prepared by the Ministry of Development, where by June 2020 more than 10 thousand were built under the National Housing Programme. apartments, and there are 14 thousand in construction. The data you're quoting is only one pillar. It is worth to see more sometimes, sometimes look wider and comprehensively. But let's not argue about numbers here, let's look to the future. The question was why KZN did not make such investments. For two reasons. The first fundamental reason is that there are no legal opportunities, so there is no possibility to cooperate with local governments. And the other is a negative provision for financial flows. And you can say that this is an idea that the government invented in the privacy of their offices. Personally, I was responsible for this as Deputy Minister. But this idea, which was created at the beginning of the year, has already been consummated with more than 80 local governments. I am looking here at Mr Sterczewski, Mrs Kretkowska. Poznan is one of the cities where the president, despite other political options, said: I'm in. And it is thanks to our changes, thanks to the new role of the National Property Resource, which supports it completely, in Poznań, a politically far away city, that it will be possible to build a school. And working with the National Property Resources has led to this school and these apartments. So that shows that we can. Why government and government? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not re-inventing a wheel here. I'm showing you what other people did back in the '60s. Sweden - a programme of one million apartments. What was that all about? Well, the government and the government realized that keeping the most valuable capital that people are requires cooperation. And the government provides a framework, provides financial instruments. I refer here to Mr Krajewski. I don't understand this irony about accommodation, because accommodation is also needed and accommodation must be created, because the poorest ones, those who are in a crisis situation, in a difficult situation, in a smart program such as the National Housing Programme, must also be thought of. Yes, you do. He thinks. He's been thinking for five years. As far as the exclusion of people in debt is concerned, I am thinking of Mrs Pavlichak here. We're not here to exclude these people. This is, of course, to be explained in the work of the subcommittee, but the intention is that these allowances are to be worked out in such a way that they will be paid retroactively, in order to just repay this debt, so that there is no snow avalanche and deepening of the debt. Eliminating wealth - that is what you called it. I wouldn't call it extortion. Here we have a discussion on fundamental rights: ownership, rental, but also, I think, there is a little historical feature, which we all know, how Poland suffered as a result of war. The paradigm of ownership is changing. It changes because it grows among young people, because often (the bell) in various forums, whether right-wing or left-wing, the question arises whether buying an apartment, especially in a pandemic, is buying yourself safety or buying fears. And that's a wise question. But remember, when it comes to the paradigm of property, there is a strongly rooted sense of ownership. As far as numbers are concerned, 87% Poles in surveys say that they want property. There must be a possibility. And that's why we differentiate that if a participant makes a contribution of 20% to 25%, so a significant part of the start-up investment is co-financed, he has a claim. Let us remember that the situation is diametrically different in large cities, in medium-sized cities, in cities that are losing their economic functions. And this is 250 cities on a list prepared by the government. And there this human capital, this view of property, is conditioned by the fact that everything can take away from us - the cruel times of communism. But the property stays with us, we can't change that. We can't turn this paradigm into a year, two years. Therefore, this possibility in our assessment must be. As for Mr Sosnier's speech - unfortunately, I do not see him in the courtroom... We're listening, sir. For me, Mr President, the level of abstraction of this speech has been so high up at the summit that I cannot answer the questions here. Perhaps the time to talk will be... I'll pass it on. You're an MP. Perhaps this conversation, this dialogue will be more specific in the committees. As far as specific questions are concerned, I have taken note of Mr Mishalski's question. Yes, photovoltaics and heat pumps can be financed. Let me just add that the sum on the housing books - we are also expanding this catalogue of possibilities - is about 481 million. As regards the provision referred to in question 2, this provision was deleted as a result of the consultation of the PUDDO due to the Personal Data Protection Act. It was the main impulse for this recipe to be removed. As regards the comments or suggestions made by Mrs Chmiel, I remember, because we worked together in committees related to construction law and forestry law... Yes, sir. ...that at every point I agreed with the Member on digitization. It is only, Madam, that this is not a process that happens through the prism of the written law. We have to do this as part of a consultation... We care so much about local governments, so everyone is at the heart of the welfare of local governments and their budgets. The issue of digitalization, believe me, is a step-by-step issue. We start with 10 forms, but it's still going to be a revolution. We want to go further, but believe me, if we're talking about the departments involved in architectural and construction decisions, sometimes these departments even run paper cases. So sharing this with systems, with a complete legal loop, is the action that is, must be staged. I am a supporter and will support this - together, I hope, together with the Polish Chamber of Engineers and architects - so that we have such a situation that the full investment and construction process is an electronic process, together with an e-book. As regards Mr Buż's question about the name, why is there a change of name - because, Mr Buż, social housing initiatives will have a broader catalogue of tasks and responsibilities than social housing companies. As far as the list of eligible persons is concerned, here we are creating a similar situation as in the case of older entities, i.e. TBS. Housing cooperatives - Mr President, housing cooperatives are the potential of 300,000. Locations. We have a separate law on housing cooperatives, which will be notified, is being discussed by the Government's Programming Team, so that we can increase the potential of the cooperative together. I'm done talking to the audit unions, with the cooperatives. We have developed comprehensive rules that will motivate cooperatives to build. With regard to Mrs Navels, the 35% that Mrs Navels wanted to mention - from this I would add more 10% which we estimate, from the National Property Resources, from the investment fund and the support of social building initiatives. I would love to give more than 45%, because finance, whether in talks with the European Investment Bank or with the World Bank, where the European Commission's policy is in the context of social construction... But the clear state aid rules say that this limit is 40%. financing. We don't have that problem with construction... Minister, I need you to get to the end of your speech, okay? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Robert Krzysztof Nowicki: Of course, Marshal. In the case of municipal construction, we do not have that limit. That's 50, 60%. As far as Mr Suchon is concerned, I no longer have time here, but I will send to the report on the state of housing and so that we can... The details on the committees are already in place, Minister. We're behind schedule, please. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Robert Krzysztof Nowicki: ...to discuss it outside of time on the platform. Living for young people - this is for Mr Grabarczyk, because he mentioned this. The trend, which follows and is shown in the report on the aid for the purchase of the apartment, showed that these apartments were expensive by developers. I do not want to make accusations here that it was just one form of support, ownership support, and de facto support to developers through own contribution. That's not true. On the other hand, the years 2008-2015... So was the secondary market. ...is a collapse in social housing. Minister, you really should be on your way to the end. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Robert Krzysztof Nowicki: In conclusion, your honored marshal, High Izbo, I think these solutions, which are indeed extensive, 24 laws, are necessary. I would like to invite you to discuss in committee and subcommittee. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u423	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. Member, but I... I'm on a formal issue, the Minister mentioned my name. Two sentences. But with the government... he won't be on the committee. But I just want to correct it. But, Commissioner, there will be a conversation, there will be time in the committees. Two sentences. We're running late, and I'm asking you, ma'am. Member, please. With the government, I won't be able to. There will be government representatives at committee meetings. No, he won't be in the subcommittee. Member, please. But I just want to correct it. Good. There you go, half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u424	Thank you very much. Minister! I don't think you understand. I was talking about the electronic version, about BIM, a system that is already in force in many countries. This is not a milestone, as Minister Emilewicz said in terms of design, because most developers in Poland already use this electronic version. That's why I offered to start six months ago. That's what we're gonna do. That's not, that's when it turned out to be a very bad idea. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u425	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing contained in print No 534, to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 10-minute break. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 57 hrs. 19 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the budget law for 2020 (Print No 572). I cordially ask the Minister of Finance of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present to the High House a draft amendment to the budget law for 2020, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 August this year. The 2020 budget was to be the first sustainable budget in 30 years, i.e. one in which the total budget expenditure was to be financed by its revenue. The consistent sealing of the tax system has ensured not only the sustainability of public finances in previous years, but also the fulfilment of socio-economic policy tasks, including ambitious pro-family policies. In line with the original provisions of the Budget Law for 2020 of 14 February this year. State budget expenditure was to amount to PLN 435.3 billion and were to correspond to revenue. Unfortunately, the unprecedented event of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to one of the biggest economic crises in recent years. Its effects spread around the world and did not miss Poland either. I am thinking, above all, of the rapid slowdown in economic activity and the collapse of previous macroeconomic trends. The situation caused by COVID-19 forced the updating of the basic budgetary and macroeconomic parameters and the preparation of appropriate tools to combat the effects of the pandemic. Therefore, the main objective of the present amendment to the budget law for 2020 is to provide the means to further stimulate the development of the Polish economy so that it can return to the path of growth as soon as possible. In the first quarter of 2020, the annual growth rate of gross domestic product decreased to 2% and reached the lowest level since the third quarter of 2013. In the second quarter of this year, i.e. during the lockdown period, GDP was already lower than a year ago and by as much as 8.2%. GDP is expected to fall by 4.6% throughout 2020 4.1% increase in the last year and before 3,7% - originally laid down in the budget law for 2020. The freezing of the economy has reversed the long-term trend in improving the labour market situation, the employment dynamics in the business sector have decreased. Average wages in the business sector have clearly increased slower and the rate of registered unemployment has already been lower than one year before. Given the scale of the decline in economic activity in the second quarter, the dramatic increase in unemployment during this period has not occurred, among others. Thanks to the stabilizing actions of the government. Average employment in the national economy is expected to decrease by 2.4% throughout 2020. Payments in the national economy should increase by 3.5% at a much lower rate than in previous years. The state budget's income situation in the first half of 2020 was very unfavourable. This revenue is expected to be lower by PLN 36.7 billion in 2020 than planned in the Budget Act for the current year, i.e. 8.4%. The tax revenue of the state budget will be lower by PLN 40.3 billion, i.e. by 10.3% and non-tax revenues will be higher by 3.6 billion, by 8.5%. High Izbo! The revision of the budget law for 2020 is necessary not only because of the necessary update of the basic budgetary and macroeconomic parameters, as was the case in previous years. As I mentioned at the outset, this amendment also has another task - we want to give a positive boost to the development of the Polish economy, by increasing the total expenditure of the state budget, including property expenditure. In March, in view of the difficult economic situation throughout the Community, the European Commission proposed a general exit clause in the EU Stability and Growth Pact, which was subsequently accepted by the ECOFIN Council. It allows temporary departure from the recommendations of the Council of the European Union concerning budgetary policy. The clause allows (the bell) this year for a coordinated fiscal boost to support the economy. The revised Public Finance Act makes it possible to suspend the stabilisation of the expenditure rule and apply the exit clause in the event of an outbreak and at the same time to significantly deteriorate the macroeconomic situation. Meeting these conditions in 2020 enabled the economy to support additional measures to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic more effectively and its negative economic effects. Thus, in the draft amendment to the budget law for 2020, the limit of government expenditure has been increased by PLN 72.7 billion, i.e. 16.7% compared to the original size, it amounts to PLN 508 billion. As a result, with the projected lower revenue of the state budget, which is estimated at PLN 398.7 billion, the assumed deficit of the state budget will not exceed PLN 109.3 billion. High Seym! Behind us is the period of global lockdown caused by COVID-19, which no one expected during the draft budget law for 2020. We had to provide support for companies and resources to fight against COVID-19 and protect jobs. Thanks to spending and government-led activities, our economy has felt less economic impact than most European Union countries. It required a great deal of money to be invested, and that is why we are now updating this year's budget. Budgetary revenues are returning to earlier levels, but we still need funds to build up the economy and boost investment so that next year GDP growth returns to levels from recent years. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Please accept the amendment of the budget law for 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u427	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u428	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the historical budget, the budget without the deficit that I was talking about in January this year, turned out to be a budget that was a good starting point for a crisis that no one expected. It's hard to imagine if we were still in a deficit that would be planned at the level of e.g. 40, 50 billion PLN, and such budgets have been, to add to the situation related to COVID, where naturally due to the recession, the economic revenues fall by almost 40 billion PLN. Of course, there are also increases in spending. And here the government faced a huge challenge to keep jobs first. This challenge was taken up at the beginning of the pandemic, when the economy actually stopped, and the national as well as foreign trade died. This was done for various reasons. Not all sectors of the economy are back on track. This drop in income is quite obvious. Here the Minister mentioned that, in fact, according to this plan, which was planned, the expected growth for 2020 was 3.7%. GDP is now expected to fall by around 4%. , so it is clear that this decrease in relation to the plan is more than 8 percentage points. The tax revenue is naturally falling. This is the main reason for the decline in budget revenue. I think it was inevitable. Now, of course, this must be observed in the months to come or in the following year. The effort was undertaken at the beginning of the pandemic, still in March, April. First of all, the response to job protection was very rapid. It is a three-month exemption from the ZUS contribution, a transfer of tax payment deadlines and above all subsidies from the Labour Fund, from the budget, from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, i.e. subsidies to the so-called. parking, reducing the scope of work and subsidising jobs for entrepreneurs. It worked. I think that this objective, which was set, i.e. keeping as many jobs as possible, failing to bring about an avalanche increase in unemployment, has so far been achieved. And for that I thank the Minister and the Government as a whole, because this is the most important assessment of how we deal with the pandemic in a situation of economic decline, in the absence of counterparties, etc. Entrepreneurs received adequate support. In addition to this support, which already has financial implications in this budget, which is visible, of course, there is also support in the form of a PFR loan, which will be settled next year. This also gives a huge guarantee of keeping jobs for 12 months. It is expected that this decrease in the number of employees should not be substantial. I think we're one of the best-running countries. We have the best indicators for pandemic unemployment. It is clear that it is now a major task, in addition to keeping jobs in order to stimulate economic development, to spend money. A very smart economic policy of the government makes it impossible for us to reduce expenditure in this situation despite lower income. On the contrary, we are increasing these expenses in order to stimulate investment in order to benefit from these investments. There is even help for local governments, which is extremely important. The local governments also lost part of their income, so this aid in the first Fund for Local Government Investments, this allocated algorithm at the level of PLN 6 billion, caused that local governments do not give up on the investments they are carrying out, which thanks to these funds are secured. The second series of the Fund for Local Government Investments which has already been prepared for specific investments will result in these investments being carried out both this year and the following year, I stress, despite the decline in local revenue. This is the impulse which, on the one hand, secures the functioning of local governments and, on the other hand, causes the economy and even its growth. Of course, in this budget on the income side... I have already said that this is unfortunately an inevitable fall in tax revenue, but also expenditure which is necessary on the one hand. If, for example, We will take into account the effects of the ZUS exemption for 3 months, the payment of other benefits, sickness benefits, etc., it is clear that in these expenses it was necessary to increase subsidies to the Social Insurance Fund and to the ZUS. Here it is very good that the government does not cause the ZUS to borrow, which means it hides this budget. This decrease in expenditure, which has actually revealed itself, compensates for the grant from the state budget, showing indeed these real effects in the state budget. Hence, among others. These increased expenditures, which are intended to supplement the income of the Social Insurance Fund, ZUS, KRUS, are almost PLN 40 billion. This is the main part of the expenditure that is increasing in comparison with the financial plan. Fortunately, this is not the only part of the expenditure. There are, of course, also expenditures to develop the economy, which is another PLN 3 billion in national defence expenditure, but this is because we have a commitment to the level of expenditure relative to GDP. This is also our safety and actually thanks to the fact that such national defence expenditures are at a significant level, we have a guarantee, among others. stationing American troops in Poland, which is an extremely important and important element of our security. We recently celebrated the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. We had guarantees back then, just paper guarantees. Unfortunately, they didn't quite work out, because paper guarantees are always fleeting, while stationing allied troops in our country gives the best guarantee, because everyone will defend their soldiers. Budgetary guarantees? Not budget guarantees. The budgetary guarantees are that these troops can be stationed because we are a credible ally. So questioning it... Some people here are trying to undermine this particular expense... But you have to talk about money. ...which make it possible for us to have American troops with this money. The Germans who regret this money will have fewer and fewer American troops. It's an obvious logical relationship. This is one part worth noticing. Another big financial envelope is transport. - over a 12-billion-dollar increase in transport expenditure. Of course, there are national roads here, but also very significant is the Self-Government Road Fund, which will be expanded again, so that local governments will have money for investment; the Self-Government Road Fund, which has been very successful, from which funds are not necessarily spent in the closing system of the financial year, as is the case with other grants, but are going on for the following years. In a stable way it gives local governments income, gives them the opportunity to invest. It can be said with regret that it is also necessary to increase expenditure on debt handling. It's pretty obvious. Since the deficit is rising, debt is rising, this debt service is also necessary. An important element in the area of expenditure growth is the special reserves, which are almost PLN 7 billion, which are growing. It's a tool for the government to react flexibly to an ongoing pandemic. Everyone thought at the beginning, in March, that the pandemic would last two to three months and we'd be back on track. Turns out they were burning hopes. Therefore, securing reserves is extremely important. Of course, we can say that with great pain we are seeing how, instead of a balanced budget, without a deficit, we are now to adopt a budget with a deficit over [[♪ The bell ♪]] A hundred billion, but it's a necessity in this situation. I think that thanks to the fact that the budget was without a deficit before, it is now a safe and really stimulating economy and, above all, jobs are protected. Of course, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the budget that the government has prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u429	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Izabel Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I was hoping that the Minister and President Kowalczyk would spare us the black humour of a balanced budget, but I was disappointed, [[Applause]] Just like I was disappointed in the revision, because we got 341 pages of tables and thousands of numbers that the PiS government really wants to cover for the inability of its five-year-old governments. In addition, the tables are talking about 110 billion PLN deficit, as was polite to say by Mr President, while everyone in Poland knows that the real deficit is 300 billion PLN. This 3-month lockdown cost us PLN 300 billion - lockdown, where we said that in order for it to make sense at all, it is necessary to strengthen the health system so that the epidemic can be fought in the autumn. So is there money in this 300 billion PLN for health care? There isn't. But today we have 830 new diseases and a protest of medical rescuers. So maybe there's at least $300 billion in money for every tenth Polish child who needs psychological help because of your deformity? That money's gone, too. What's the money in this budget for, this revision? Next year's election promise to the PiS. Yeah, you're bringing another tens of billions of zlotys into special funds, and what you're doing is redecisive. Reckoning, Minister. So let me repeat: PiS never had any money for social transfers, and today it doesn't have any more money. You give the Poles money from the loan. You give the Pole 500 PLN, and he will have to pay 600 PLN, and he has to pay out of his private pocket for the doctor, because you have already run out of money to protect your health. That's how you privatize [[Applause]] health care system in Poland. Few people don't have money, they have to die of undiagnosed cancer, heart disease or other diseases that aren't there for money in this budget revision. There was so much bragging. Remember at the beginning of this speaker Prime Minister Morawiecki thundered: growth in the last 8 years was not an increase for our merits, but an increase for our debts. Well, how was that debt, Mr. Chairman? Because the Minister doesn't know it, it's only been a while. Over our 8 years, public debt has increased by less than PLN 400 billion, and over 5 years of PiS government - by PLN 500 billion, PLN 0.5 billion. This bill does not want to come out differently, we owe Poland an average of PLN 50 billion per year, it is a lot - remember that we had two major long-term global crises - you are in debt to Poland for PLN 100 billion per year. And what do you do? You're better than that. You owe twice as much as we do, plus an investment collapse. That means you're not investing at all in this time, you're worse than Gierek. The gierek owed us the same debt, but at least he was building something. He built a game, a road from Warsaw to Silesia, and today I drive 4 hours from Czestochowa to the Sejm, because 60 km from Piotrków to Czestochowa you are unable to build for 5 years. [[Applause]] And then there's the VAT gap. What a career Mr Horała has made on this luce, today he is building airports, while the VAT gap is growing. Minister, do you know what the European Commission has said? The gap is growing, it will be higher than the EU average this year, it will increase by 5 percentage points, 36 billion PLN from the budget. But when the smart people told you it wasn't the VAT mafia, it was procyclical, you said no, no, no, just not stealing. So today it turns out, my dears, that you are either liars or thieves, I leave the choice to you. [[Applause]] Finally, I've got a hello from Moody's analysts. Well, agency analysts are worried about abolishing the constitutional debt limit, which is what today calls for? Minister of Finance. They also fear that the credit power of Poland can weaken the poor demographic situation and the political risks arising from social divisions and regional inequalities. Speaking Polish: What did Moody's say? He said that PiS wasted four years of business and just couldn't make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u431	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u432	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! Like eight months ago, we broke a myth about budget without deficit, showing that there was actually more than 70 billion PLN of hidden deficit in it, so today we will reveal the truth about the government proposal. Because the main purpose of this budget, this novel, is not at all the fight against the pandemic. The goal is first of all to try to cover your inability to fight this pandemic. The goal is to try to cover your bad decisions, the chaos you've made in the economy, first managing the universal lockdown, then doing too little testing without isolating the sick, without isolating the outbreaks of the disease. But the goal, as wide as this, is also to try to throw five years of your irresponsible policy of giving away money and buying electoral support on the shoulders of society. [[Applause]] The proposed changes only slightly respond to the effects of COVID-19, and the pandemic is only a pretext for you to increase state budget expenditure in an unprecedented way. In short, we're dealing with an attempt to make state money, and it's on an incredible scale. The increase in expenditure - 73 billion PLN, which you are proposing, has almost no connection with the fight against COVID. Only about 16 billion out of 73 billion are earmarked for the fight against pandemics. On the other hand, the remaining 57 billion go to completely different goals. For what? 26.5 billion for the Solidarity Fund for 13th and 14th pensions next year. You're wrestling, you're wrestling. 12 billion goes to rail transport - it is about subsidies for rail and services. 3 billion in addition to the army, 7 billion in special reserves, 1.5 billion in coal mining, 2.3 billion in contribution to the European Union, 2.2 billion in debt management, etc. Where are the expenses associated with the fight against the pandemic? Moreover, most of these expenditures These are current expenses. For investments of all this growth, seventy-seven billions are only worth three-four billion. How is it that you are able to increase budget expenditure to more than PLN 0.5 trillion in one year? This is only possible because you have made one more great manipulation, namely, you have suspended the stabilizing expenditure rule, which in practice means that you have no longer been subject to any limitations in terms of expenditure. But you did it in a way that was unconstitutional, because first you came up with a new state of emergency, namely the state of the epidemic that you're in vain looking for in the constitution. Then, as part of the COVID laws, you pushed through the Sejm the records that, first, the epidemic was introduced by the Minister of Health under the regulation - not by the Council of Ministers, not by the Sejm, the Minister of Health. Yes, sir. Secondly, that in the event of an epidemic, a stabilising expenditure rule could be suspended, which has so far only been possible in the emergency states defined in the Constitution. So we have a situation that the Minister of Health can actually, on the basis of his own regulation, introduce a state of epidemic, and this allows the suspension of the stabilisation of the expenditure rule, and this allows the spending of money without any restrictions. I would like to point out to the High House that this is how you have destroyed financial discipline, my dear country from Law and Justice. You got to the state money and created yourself virtually unlimited opportunities to spend money on the next fives of Kaczyński and other electoral gifts. The result of these non-constitutional measures was a surge in debt, as Mrs Leszczyn just mentioned. 300 billion PLN only this year. And this increase - please do not give in to government propaganda - it is not only PLN 109 billion of government budget deficit, but also PLN 100 billion of issuance of bonds from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to finance expenditure from the anti-COVID fund and another PLN 100 billion from so-called. a financial shield from the Polish Development Fund. Together we have PLN 300 billion, or 15% GDP. What is the Minister of Finance's response to this unprecedented increase in debt? Anyone would think that the Minister, as guardian of the state money, would say, let's be careful with these expenses. No, the minister says let's lift the constitutional debt limit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I must say that this is a statement that has really stirred up financial markets, but not just financial markets - all observers of the political scene. Let's face it openly: this budget is unconstitutional, dangerous, indebted to our country in an absolutely irresponsible way, does not support investment, does not build foundations for development. Thank you, thank you very much, sir. It's just a smoke screen to cover up the consequences of your mistakes. We will vote against this budget. And we're filing for rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u433	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. The motion for rejection. I wanted to... The motion for rejection. Mr President, time is up. Your marshal, two seconds, we'll say that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of the year, Prime Minister and Minister changed the word 'balanced' before us by all possible cases, because this was to be the budget: budget without deficit, balanced budget, and Poland was to be a country of honey and milk flowing. Already then the Left said that it is not that this balanced budget is a fiction that you simply hide at the price tables in Excel and PR policy the real state of state finances. You sacrificed the basic goals of Poles and Poles, who want to know what country they live in and what is the budget of the country in which they live, because you transferred a lot of spending to local governments, for example, and deprived them of their financial resources. After all, the local authorities took responsibility for schools, for hospitals, and they had no help. You've been hiding an issue connected with the famous 13th pension. These famous maneuvers: Treasury loan, insurance fund, solidarity fund insurance fund. In the end, someone will have to pay back 11 billion zlotys. These examples could be multiplied. We were talking about public debt here. Then let's tell the Poles and Poles. Minister, you have to stand on this speaker and simply say that in 2015 the public debt was PLN 836 billion and each of us, 38 million citizens, had to pay 22,000. zł. The year 2019 is the amount of PLN 970 billion and each of us had to pay back 28 thousand. zł. This year, on the other hand, 2020 is a public debt of PLN 1230 billion and is worth nearly 35 thousand. on each Pole's head. I pay attention on behalf of the Left: the state is not your private company. Today we want to sit down and talk honestly about the state's financial situation, because the fact that you have such a policy today may turn out to be in 5, 10, 20 years, that our children, our grandchildren, will bear the cost and will have to pay for it. For the sake of clarity: the budget deficit - especially in such a situation - is nothing wrong on the one condition that the funds resulting from the sovereign debt are spent in a wise and reasonable manner. The Left would like to remind you that, in such a situation as we are currently dealing with, the sensible spending of funds are, for example, issues relating to the protection of workers and businesses from the crisis. These are issues related to health care funding, because single-name hospitals functioned, but the truth is that the coronavirus did not cause Poles to stop suffering from other diseases. Health care is in absolute collapse today. This is undoubtedly helping local governments, which today stand on the front line of the fight against the coronavirus and with the consequences of this pandemic that we are dealing with. For the sake of clarity: by such a policy as you have had in recent years, today the debt of local governments is the amount of PLN 82 billion, the debt of hospitals is the amount of PLN 15 billion - so that these are all commitments that will have to be met and paid sooner or later. And, of course, the issue of investment, because especially in times of crisis, investment is very important, because in the end it is these investments that drive the economy, so public investment is very important. But what you've all been doing, everyone knows that, so I don't want to remind you anymore, because the funds from these loans, the funds from this budget deficit, shouldn't be spent on buying inoperative ventilators or ventilators that haven't reached us at all. These measures should not be spent on the purchase of masks which cannot be used at all. These measures should not be spent on various other projects that are loud about what you have been doing in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen! I address the rulers, I address the Prime Minister. Today, for us, the Left, the two priorities that we should pursue in the coming months are the two most important: the fight against the health crisis and the fight against the economic crisis. Unfortunately, this does not result from this budget. I don't want to talk about particular points anymore, because Professor Rosati signalled it, but one particularly, in short, is very strange. You want to spend an additional 3.5 billion PLN on the military and 1.5 billion PLN on the police. I'm asking you in public why you want to do this, explain it to us. Are today's F35 tanks and cannons supposed to fly around Poland, shoot at the coronavirus? Why do you want to spend this money at a time like this and in a situation like this? Okay, you know, the police, the military -- you always need money, but I don't think this is the moment. Do you have to buy water cannons, cars and equipment for the police today? Will the police fight unemployment today? She won't fight unemployment. Tonight, to be clear, with respect for the military and the police, we don't need the army. However, we need another army, an army of nurses and doctors, an army of medical rescuers, an army of laboratory technicians. Today we need an army of health inspectors because they're the only ones who can beat the pandemic to make it clear. Not tanks, not planes, but people can defeat the pandemic. In this context, the President has signalled expenditure on the military of 2%. I didn't really understand what this is all about, because in my opinion, if GDP falls and spending is kept at the same level as the budget, that means that in this case there is no danger that these expenditures will fall below 2%. On the contrary, with this increase, they can reach 2.5%. So I say again, let's see if we need it. I don't want to say what that money could be made of, because we could build hospitals, we could use it for education. To Tchaika. We know there could be a lot of ideas. The Left has been calling for months to actually fight the crisis. We have put together a number of draft laws, for example concerning aid to local governments, i.e. the refinancing of losses in local governments, the benefits of crisis. We have tabled a bill on the temporary financing of fixed costs for small and medium-sized enterprises, because this is a very important issue. Finally, we tabled a bill to increase funding for health care, health care, to a level of 7.2%. That is, the European level. Of course, for the sake of clarity, we are not debating this issue at all, but today we were going to debate - fortunately this draft law has been removed from the agenda - on the famous law on the exemption from criminal liability of illegal officials. This is probably the first such case in Europe, if not in the world, when the law is released from criminal liability. It's been six months since the outbreak of the pandemic. Indeed, at that time you tried to solve these problems as a government, while the truth is that today this draft budget and this deficit of PLN 72 billion show that we did not talk about aid of about 100 billion, 200 billion, 300 billion, which often appeared. Today it is actually 72 billion PLN. You used to say you'd give people a shield, but today, unfortunately, you're starting to threaten with a sword, a sword of tax increase, reduced wages, budget layoffs. I don't think that's the right direction. Prime Minister! Minister! Once, back in the day, the government said there's no problem, even in a crisis situation, the government feeds itself. I feel like you guys are thinking exactly the same thing today. Yes, you have a job, families have a job, you have access to health care, but that's not the direction. Remember that outside the government, apart from law and justice activists, there are Poles and Poles who today need real help and fair information about the state's financial situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The left hand of this bill in this form will not support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u435	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Is this the amendment we're talking about? Of course, the amendment should respond to the current situation, to the economic crisis, to the provisions contained in the individual shields and to ensuring financial and health security for citizens. It was important to avoid a break in the breaking supply chain, avoid mass bankruptcy, loss of liquidity by businesses or rising unemployment. What's the situation? The truth is, it could've been worse. As far as the decline in GDP is concerned, it is quite important, although there is some justification here, because if we compare the second quarter with the second quarter of 2019, then in 2019 growth was much higher. Of course, some economists thought that the decline would be even greater. Where should we look at the causes of this inheritance? First of all, the decrease in consumption was more than 10%. The decrease in investment was similar, and fortunately European investment was maintained. There was also a decrease in trade, and here with the help of future online sales. Finally, the problem of a number of sectors that have emerged from the crisis. Fortunately, when it comes to foreign trade, this decline was not very big. He was bigger at import than he was at export. The crisis is not only in Poland, it is in Europe. Countries are in debt and, of course, the fundamental question is: Is it debt-making at all costs, or is it debt-making for real development, which will give the future opportunity to pay back debt and ensure health protection and a functioning society, which is good for the economy? As far as I'm concerned... The amendment implies an increase in expenditure, less revenue. You said they were the Minister's. Essential question: What is this amount spent on? 'Cause I feel like there was a rule that everything could be done right now. There's an amendment and there's a crisis, so everything can be moved. Do we really have to move on? This requires some analysis, and I think we will do this at the committee meeting. The point is, you put things in there that my previous speakers were talking about. Let's get back to the other indicators. They were also mentioned by the Minister, and I will not quote them, it is a waste of time, but they are too optimistic. As far as the level of GDP is concerned, the rise in unemployment, inflation - God forbid. Let us ask the question: Is this deficit level, even though it is high in the plans, to be maintained? The answer I think is negative: it's not up for maintenance. We know the situation with regard to the Social Insurance Fund, the scale of the burden of the Polish Development Fund or other such funds. In order to maintain the improvement of the situation, additional taxes, often called fees, are foreseen. And for now, society doesn't know exactly what the scale of these taxes and these extra charges are going to be. Who's gonna pay for this? Because if we raise the burden for different companies and institutions, the consumer, the citizen, will pay for it. We're about to talk about the 2021 budget. I wonder what the indicators will be then. Of course, I would like to make it clear that economic growth is the most important thing, so if the credit is taken, the deficit is used wisely, there will be growth and then there will be money to be paid. Of course, it must be made clear here that the Union is coming to the aid. This is not only about the effect of the single market, but also about the stabilising expenditure rule, the Reconstruction Fund, which will be launched, a programme of fair transformation that we could benefit from, but did not benefit from, we did not negotiate the amounts that could have been negotiated. Finally, the 2014-2020 budget is still largely unfulfilled, and this delay may be a benefit because there are still resources that can be used for other purposes. And also the budget for 2021 and 2027, which is currently under discussion. It is a pity that, when you look at their size and the size of the budget of the Fund for Reconstruction, in total, this is less than it was in the financial perspective 2014. I think that's something that needs to be said. Finally, of course, all these changes should serve to modernise the economy. It is not about restoring what was and how it was, but it is about creating better conditions and a more modern economy. Finally, we must also be aware that it can happen again, a second wave of pandemics will come. What options will we then have to respond to the situation that may arise? This is a very difficult situation, because we know that the incidence rate is rising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today, Poles from you as guardian of public finances constitutionally responsible for their state expect a clear, clear answer. And those who listen to this debate and do not listen. First of all, how much is Poland in debt today? Poland and the state budget, i.e. something in which each Pole participates. Second question: What are you and the government going to finance today? We do not see clear and legible information about the amount of this debt. You say 109 billion. But if you look at it... If we use the methodology used by the European Union to save all these techniques, we will know that it will be much more. That's where I'd expect you, Minister, to specify the amount of this deficit. And the second issue, which also belongs to Polish people and Poles with precise information: How does our country intend to finance this debt? So far, it appears that the only clear signal you and the government have been sending in the last weeks or months is the printing of money. Yes, sir. Only that today many citizens realise that this is a solution that, if it lasts longer, will have devastating consequences for the fragile domestic budgets of our fellow citizens, because suddenly savings will start to melt, and the cost of living because of this addition will be much higher. We as a coalition Poland club would expect to give a clear answer here today, but not in the name of any political interests, we simply feel this social expectation towards you. It is clear that the government, whether in one way or another, is not responsible for this crisis, but you are responsible for the exit of this crisis, which is translated into public finances of the state, and we would like this information to be clearly and clearly communicated here today. As a coalition club, Poland will be extremely difficult to vote for an amendment in this shape, because these question marks, these transfers, the removal of money beyond the budget, lowering the deficit is far too much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u439	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u440	God bless you! And save yourself. Dear Marshal! It's a war budget. Mr Kowalczyk! You're talking about a secure deficit. It's as safe as a bomb. There's such a superstition that the bullet won't fall again. That doesn't prove true in practice. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're building a social state here. You're strengthening the fiscal exploitation trend. You're eliminating entrepreneurship. Today, the High House has spent a few hours on this matter, it's about your ongoing procedures around the point where normal people can't function normally here so that everyone can become slaves on a budget salary. What a crew. Minister Kościński! Gentlemen of the Vice Ministers! It's actually a big deal that you're sitting here. Of course, I think of all of you together as a criminal group, which together and in agreement brings widespread danger to my fellow countrymen. Mr... Yes. Don't be upset. Listen with understanding, Marshal. I've gotten used to all kinds of speeches. Mrs. Marshal! Listen to me with understanding. It's not a joke. That doesn't mean we can be offended. Some of them are taunting your vice minister. This is inappropriate. I take you very seriously. Tuchaczewski, as he went to Warsaw in 1920, was about as old as you are. The notabene fate of Tuchaczewski should be a warning to politicians, [[Applause]] who engage in large projects for which they are not contractors and subcontractors. After all, you do creative accounting here, which even the Deputy Minister in the newspapers does not hide especially, and it is a secret in caucus conversations. When it comes to 100 billion - that's it. just to make it look good for ordinary mortals who can't even imagine such a heap of money. Creative accounting. 50 billion for defense - that should please me as a member of the defense committee, but it scares me a little bit. That's one in eight, not one in ten, which you're spending. You can't see the equipment. You spend money. Save yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! You continue with Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u441	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u442	High Seym! Dear Ministers, Directors and Officials listening to this debate! The scepticism in this House is not unreasonable. As the Confederation last year, we pointed out that all propaganda in the election season, that we would have a balanced budget, was from A to Z false. I was talking about the election debates last year. It was propaganda. There has never been a chance for a balanced budget while constantly developing new social benefits and strangling the economy with constantly increasing taxes. Unfortunately, the tax trend has not slowed down. Even in spite of the crisis, you prefer to borrow billions of debt on the financial markets, involve the National Bank of Poland on a large scale to print money, which is an unprecedented action actually at the border or outside our constitution. You prefer to hide in non-budget funds additionally issued debt somewhere in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. But you can't think of letting the economy grow instead of expanding this list of tax positions. We number these items and then display the tax items that you add. Sugar tax. Now we hear you're willing to double-tax limited companies, delete all civil law contracts. This happened by chance - during the analysis of the content of the anti-crisis shield, we detected the obligation to report all civil law contracts to the US and treated it as preparation for additional taxation. In this way the Polish economy will not be saved. There was supposed to be 0 billion deficits, and there's going to be over 100 billion deficits. There was supposed to be a further narrowing of the VAT gap, and we already know it won't work. Instead, we have an increasingly public discussion on the abolition of debt thresholds, prudential thresholds, perhaps even amending the Constitution. If this is how you imagine the security of the Polish economy, then indeed, as Grzegorz Braun said to me: save yourself who can. [[Applause]] Hold on to your wallets. Oh, there won't be any wallets, I forgot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u443	Thank you very much. At this end we concluded the speeches of representatives of clubs and circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have always said that a balanced budget is the biggest lie of Prime Minister Morawiecki. This amendment we're looking at today is the best proof of that. Under the mantle of the epidemic, you just strangle the country and pay your debts for five years. This table, as well as the other cards of this amendment, proves this best. Because what has to do with any epidemic of modernization of the Armed Forces, to which 3 billion go, transport infrastructure - 12 billion, police - 1.5 billions, repayment of the Solidarity Fund's debt? This 30 billion, Minister, debt in the local government fund, which I have been talking about for over a year, is precisely reflected here. These are your debts for five years. No money from OFE because you didn't finish disassembling OFE - 12 billion. The increase in government debt - of course it also costs more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In return, we have a lot of new fees and taxes you're already investigating at the Ministry. This will result in further poverty of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u445	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. I don't see her. You don't have an MP? Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you why the revision of the budget does not include general subsidies for local government units. After all, the revenues of local governments under PIT, CIT, real estate tax and other exemptions are falling and will continue to fall. Today it is estimated that this drop will be 30% the planned revenue. After all, it was the local governments who replaced the government, which was not prepared to protect its inhabitants. They bought disinfectants, gloves, masks, etc. What will happen if local governments run out of money for salaries, among other things. For education? Why doesn't the government support local governments? After all, government finances are part of public finances. It's a deliberate act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why, Minister? Explain that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u447	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you remember Prime Minister Morawiecki talking about a balanced budget here? Then you praised government policy, said it was enough for all your promises, said you wouldn't owe us. What are the results? We've got a record hole in the budget, and it's a megadot. You wrote here that it will have to be covered by PLN 110 billion, but that is not true, because this deficit will be more than PLN 200 billion, because you have hidden so much outside the budget in various kinds of funds and other state institutions. You don't have 300 billion zlotys. We're gonna have to borrow it and give it back someday. It's like you owe almost 8,000 to every Pole this year. zł. So I'm asking you when you're gonna stop driving irresponsible and short-sighted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] State policy. He'll come to pay for it to the next generation. Think of them, and you, dear citizens, get ready because the government is preparing new taxes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u449	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're beating a disgraceful record. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has never been so indebted. 110 billion debt of the State Treasury plus 100 billion - BGK, plus it is not yet known how much and where you hid. It has never happened before that citizens did not know what the actual debt of the state was. Never, ladies and gentlemen. You're updating your budget today. Start with the revision of spending and the 2 billion you spend every year, for 5 years on TVP, transfer to hospitals that are indebted to more than 13 billion, of which in Lublin, from which I come - to 900 million, and the largest hospital at al. Kraśnicka - 400 million. Save the hospitals! Put that money on health care! But you don't... You owe the state power instead of starting with a reduction in your own spending. That's what a good host does! [[♪ The bell ♪]] You reach into citizens' pockets by raising taxes, by paying the price and debt that our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren will pay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition. Already? Now. Oh, oh, oh,
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u452	Excuse me, Marshal. I didn't notice it was my turn. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! You lied, you lie, you lie, you'll probably keep lying. At the beginning of the year, you said the deficit was zero. It was on paper, but after all, Professor Rosati showed us over 70 billion PLN outside of this paper. Now you're saying 110 billion. We've already shown you have another 200 billion outside of this paper. You're saying it's all because of COVID. But if you look at the numbers, it's like this: your income falls with this 300 billion deficit only by 36 billion. As well as pulling it and counting it all, you have expenses associated with the COVID for only a dozen billion. Is the answer, Minister, to what is the real purpose of this amendment, these police combat cars with water cannons? That instead of fighting the COVID, you're getting ready to fight the demonstrations of people who will be dissatisfied with what she'll look like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the economic situation and their family budgets? Of course. Is it true about your budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u453	Thank you very much. We didn't shoot the miners. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Your budget is shady. This is the budget of fraud and the budget of pushing costs. You can learn from creative accounting and shifting responsibility to others. The government gave us 6%. raises for teachers. Who's gonna pay for these raises? Self-government. Education subsidies - you don't want to admit it - are growing twice as slow as wage spending. Who's gonna pay for this? Self-government. And that's what the same local governments you robbed from CIT and PIT revenue will pay. The best evidence is your intention for teachers, which are 700,000. and 4.5 million students, the fact that this year you have contributed 64 million to the construction of the Rydzyk's father's museum in Toruń. How much did you spend on education all over Poland? Ten times less. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u456	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You say your economic programs work nicely. To be honest, you don't even know what you're spending that money on. You have saved PLN 1325 million for mining. Why? What's the money going for? You have completed a repair program for mining in 2015. In 2017, you voted for the scheme for coal mining by 2030. The purpose of the restructuring was to be profitability, investment efficiency of mining to ensure energy security and competitiveness of the economy. Today, you've been saying since 2019 that you've been working on the mining program again. What are the results at the end? In the meantime, you bring 20 million tons of coal to Poland, download it every year, reduce mining, you don't know what to do with mines. Minister, I'm asking you what this money is going for. I'm asking if you want to continue restructuring. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The amendment takes account of lower dividend receipts. Instead of 1.5 billion, there will be less than 500 million. Let me remind you, in 2019 it was 3.5 billion. The government's explaining the epidemic. But let's look at management. Quotes from the press: Mr PiS's son became head of the Treasury company; Mr PiS's wife sits on several supervisory boards; the 27-year-old husband of the Deputy Minister was given a warm job on the Supervisory Board of the State Treasury company. That is what caused the company's value to fall by a giant PLN 50 billion this year, Minister. There was no epidemic in 2019 and there were 50 billion. Today, the state Treasury is governed by the state, the ladies and gentlemen, the private corporation of Law and Justice, and the national estate is privatized into the pockets of political nominators and families associated with the PiS. This activity only cost PLN 50 billion this year, i.e. as much as all Poland spends on education, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And almost half of what's good for you. Minister, in this situation, are you not ashamed to bring this amendment to the budget and present it to the High House? It's a shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u459	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The elimination of the VAT gap was, according to the Government's argument, the main source of state income, which allowed the financing of 500+ or thirteen for pensioners. The budget implementation report for the previous year has already shown that this is obsolete. Luka's even grown. I would like to ask if this is a persistent trend. Just don't steal - it was a VAT recipe. Then I'll allow myself not to answer what should be next. In the European Union, half of the countries have seen a drop in average prices compared to last year. It's completely different from our country. Eurostat recorded 3,7% inflation in August. More expensive is only in Hungary. I would like to ask what measures the government intends to take to curb price increases, including particularly food. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u461	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The draft revenue, in terms of this revised budget, is expected to be reduced by 360 million from the proceeds of taxes on games and betting. This must be reflected, among other things, in revenue for the financial plan of the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. About 60% of this Physical Culture Development Fund is financed all tasks carried out by the Minister of Sport, e.g. sports investments, sports of people with disabilities, sport of children and young people or preparation for large sports events. This week I saw information that the government was involved in the preparation of Poland for the European Olympic Games, which are to be held in Krakow in 2023. I would like to ask, therefore, whether the revenue and expenditure of the Physical Culture Development Fund will change. Please respond in writing. And, secondly, is this year and next year planned expenditure and assistance of the state budget (the bell) in the organisation of the European Olympic Games in Krakow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u463	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u464	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Within the budget. Outlays for Dolnośląskie voivodship - minus 233.5 million, Małopolskie - minus 95 million, Śląskie - minus 216 million, Zachodniopomorskie - minus 149.9 million. Where did you get those reductions, Minister? Is it true that the key issue in this reduction is the results that Law and Justice and Andrzej Duda obtained in these voivodships? That's the first question. Second question. As it is, Minister, that there is a maintenance in this revised budget of expenditure on such expensive investments as the mine or the airport, so-called. The Central Communication Port and the financing of hospitals or social services homes is decreasing. I would very much ask you to answer these questions in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u465	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, the government is facing a poorly-cut budget, which was already known at the beginning to be revised. What are you doing? As far as Treasury companies are concerned, they lose nearly 40% of your governments values. And what kind of staff you have there, everyone can see. This is family on your own, family plus. Mr. President's family in the railroad is the only determinant: because he drives the railroad. That's the only determinant that he knows how to do it. You spend $70 million illegally on elections that we can't get back. You could continue to mention: horse studs in Janów, ventilators, etc. Such mismanagement in the private sector is unthinkable. You lack professional personnel, and there is a problem with that, because we see the ratings of the Treasury companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u467	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! 109 billion deficit for the current year in the revised budget. 82.3 billion next year, this is almost 200 billion deficit. Forecast of GDP decline verified - approx. 3.8%. I wanted to ask the Minister whether, in this deficit for the current year, which we are dealing with in this novel budget, there are also expenditures that he was responsible for ordering from the Government of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Polish Development Fund? Or is it as Professor Rosati said, that 100 billion in both banking institutions and funds, so to speak, remains beyond this deficit? Of course. Because in this case there are very, I would say, various assessments from economists. I will mention at least one of them who says that the subject of the state of public finances is at least unclear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. I think we should have that explanation. The second topic, only if your marshal permits, is that many sectors have received support, and a sector such as agriculture outside of PLN 1300 for farmers for a period of possible illness, no... Thank you. ...has received no support. Over the past few years, there has been a decrease in expenditure of 5?7 billion per year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u469	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u470	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, we talk all the time about amounts we can't imagine. In a normal life, no one operates that kind of money. As we hear: PLN 100 billion, some people need to think about how many zeros it is, but we absolutely do not know what the real weight of the problem is. So why don't we open our eyes a little bit? 100 billion PLN if we wanted to raise this money, the state would have to cut 150 PLN of pension for every pensioner. Then it would be that 100 billion PLN would be saved. Of course, you won't, but imagine how gigantic this amount is. Meanwhile, what are we up to? We have CIT for limited companies, we have extra taxes for people who work abroad, we have an idea of some excise duty on second-hand cars, we have sugar tax, we already have a functioning tax on alcohol and cigarettes (BELL RINGING) etc. I'd ask the Minister to tell you everything I said here: whether it's in or out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u471	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u472	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! First, I wanted to ask if the pilot was coming with us. Because the pilot knows the direction, and he knows exactly what the flight parameters are. And you don't know that. Because you said you were going to have high investment expenditure, you're going to invest in a pandemic period. How does it really look? PLN 34 billion for investments is 6,5% GDP, of which half for the modernisation of the army. Then it will be small money. 200 billion PLN outside the budget, 100 billion PLN budget deficit. I'm asking if the PFR money will be enough for you. Because only legally and outside the budget are registered. Are you still going to reach out to these measures? Has action been taken, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, so that the money, the 200 million zlotys spent on masks, the ventilators, will return to this budget and when will it happen? [[Applause]] Question: "Is the pilot flying with us?"
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u473	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the finance minister Tadeusz Kościński to answer the questions. What do you mean? I was saved. Mr President, there are limits. You should have been careful. It's not written, it's just... Talk to the head of the club, you'll know. Talk to the head of the club. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u474	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs Skowrońska, I have a message for you that the pilot is flying, but unfortunately I think that some passengers have entered a different plane than the one in which we are. [[Applause]] GDP in Poland this year is a recession 4.6% but in the European Union, the average is almost 9%. Twice as much as Poland. The Polish economy operates very well by the government. If you look at it, it's this dynamic for two years, this year and next year... In this period next year, we will practically have been swept out after the recession, and then the European Union will still have almost 4%. recession. Unemployment. The lowest in Europe. Public debt - 51% this year, and the so-called debt. General government, it's all in, it's 62%. The European Union - the average is more than 90%. So where's the bad news here? She also forgot to say that Moody's has left Poland's rating unchanged in the last week, which means that all the actions we have done have been accepted as being correct. And the release of Global Markets... Euromoney - everyone knows in the capital markets that this is practically the bible of finance - awarded the award to the Prime Minister of Moravian government for the best economy management during the epidemic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u475	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand that in the second part, Mr Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will address some of the questions that have been raised by ladies and gentlemen. Investment expenditure in the revision of the budget increases: infrastructure - approx. 10 billion, MON - 3 billion, MSWiA - over 1 billion, higher education - approx. 600 million, culture - 580 million, approx. 280 million - Ministry of Maritime Economy. Moreover, let us add to this support for local government units of 12 billion from the Government Local Investment Fund. There was also a question about health care, so I would like to point out that in the revision of the budget law there is an increase in the financing of health care by 2 billion, and in the COVID fund plan there are reserved expenditures of 10.1 billion. With regard to the education subsidy, I would like to point out that in 2015 and 2020 the amount of the education subsidy increased on average by 23%, and in the case of the capital city of Warsaw it was 51%. Next year, this subsidy is planned to increase by PLN 2.2 billion. The mining measures included in the budgetary amendment will continue to be used for restructuring and recapitalisation of SRK. As far as the situation of Polish companies and lower dividends are concerned, I would like to point out here the data on gross domestic product. As regards the distribution of GDP, only two countries after two quarters of 2020 have an increase in the operating surplus of companies. These are two countries - Poland and Ireland. Poland - 14.6%, Ireland - 0.4%. The issue of inflation was also raised. Forecast inflation for 2021 is 1.8%. Support of the Ministry of Sport - in the draft budget law for 2021 we plan to increase, as requested by the Ministry of Sport, by 56 million PLN. The issue of distribution of resources and expenditure on voivodships - the issue of the demand of individual units, individual voivodships for funds from the 500+ programme. There is absolutely no discretion here in the distribution of funds from the Ministry of Finance or from the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u477	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A proposal to reject the project at first reading was put forward in the discussion. And the corrigendum? We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. But, Commissioner, you have nothing to straighten out, you have not been mentioned by name. I was mentioned. Mrs... She was mentioned by the name of the Member. But in the context of a flying plane. Come on, really, let's respect each other. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Corrigendum. ...we'll vote in the block after a five-minute break. All right, let's take a five-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 30 hours 20 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ahead of the vote. We will therefore check the quorum. I ask all of you to press any button to establish a quorum. 421 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm's Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted draft resolutions: on the commemoration of the merits of King Sigmund II August on the 500th anniversary of his birth, print No 623, and on the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the death of Jerzy Giedroyc, print No 626. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain Rights of Workers and the Act on Real Estate Management. The reports shall, respectively, be in prints Nos 621 and 603. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 619. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of this proposal. I would like to inform you that, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete item 3 of the voting block on the agenda, i.e.: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print Nos 539, 569 and 569-A. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I have decided to delete items 11, 12, 13 and 14 on draft laws on ratification of documents from prints 460, 487, 459 and 520 from the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the merits of King Sigmund II Augustus on the 500th anniversary of his birth (print No 623). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the merits of King Zygmunt II Augustus on the 500th anniversary of his birth. On 1 August 2020 marks the 500th anniversary of the birth of the King of Poland and the Grand Duke of Lithuania, Zygmunt II August. Related to the greatest families of Europe: the Habsburgs and the Aragons, he signed up as one of the greatest rulers in history. Zygmunt II August embodies the best political traditions of our region of Europe and times of its greatness and Poland in the so-called era. The golden age. Zygmunt II August gave credit for the Polish state's right. He was the author and realist of an unprecedented political project - the Polish-Lithuanian Union as a union of equal states. He contributed to the merger of the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in the Republic of both Nations. He strengthened Polish-Lithuanian relations, also as the author and realizer of the concept of a strong link between the Polish-Lithuanian state and the Baltic. Zygmunt II August was recorded in the history of Polish and Lithuanian tolerance. While faithful to Catholicism, he also allowed interreligious discourse and respected the rights of Orthodox believers and Protestantism. As a carefully educated ruler, Zygmunt II August made literature, art, and architecture developed during his reign, in the Renaissance era, and the state ruled by him became one of the centres of humanism. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland aware of the merits of the King of Poland, the Grand Duke of Lithuania, Zygmunt II Augustus, whose reign is a universal symbol of the size of the Republic of both Nations, encourages reflection on his life and achievements. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of the merits of King Sigmund II Augustus on the 500th anniversary of his birth. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the death of Jerzy Giedroycio (print No 626). [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 20th anniversary of the death of Jerzy Giedroyc. On the 20th anniversary of the death of Jerzy Giedroyc the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to His memory. In 1946. Jerzy Giedroyc and his colleagues founded the Institute of Literature in Rome. After moving to Paris and Maisons-Laffitte, the Institute spent decades publishing magazines called "Culture" and "Historical Books." Thanks to this publishing house Poles scattered around the world after World War II had access to the most outstanding works of national culture. The Institute of Literature turned out to be one of the most important centres of Polish emigration, especially in the times of the Polish People's Republic and official censorship in the country. Thanks to the Editor's determination, Polish, Central European and Russian intellectuals and politicians were the most important in the circle of influence of the Institute. Giedroyc successfully reached the political elites in the West with the Institute's message. Publishers of the Institute, which shaped the thinking of Poles in Poland and abroad, remain a permanent inspiration for Polish political thought. Jerzy Giedroyc joined the Polish tradition as a supporter of a realistic assessment of Poland's situation after World War II, a advocate of the fight against Russian imperialism and supporting the ambitions of Ukrainians, Lithuanians, Belarusians and all nations of the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics in the pursuit of liberation. The main imperative of all his actions was the service of the Polish state rhyme, anti-communism and love of freedom. Hello His memory! [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution by aclamation on commemorating the 20th anniversary of the death of Jerzy Giedroycio. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the agenda. - Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron) by points: - Information from the Minister of Justice on action taken in 2015 and 2019 to combat paedophilia offences, including crimes of paedophilia committed by clergymen. - First reading of the parliamentary draft Crisis Witness Act (Print No 379), - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with points: - First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, - Presentation by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of explanations in connection with the appalling activities of police officers and services under and supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in recent weeks, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the epidemiological situation in the Śląskie voivodship, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens and Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 about: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on: - irregularities which occurred in the purchase of masks and personal protective equipment by the Ministry of Health for the amount of approx. PLN 5 million despite the fact that the equipment purchased did not meet the relevant standards and cannot be used to protect the respiratory system of medical personnel against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, as well as the reasons why personal protective equipment was purchased from companies and persons associated with a friend of the Minister of Health Łukasz Szumowski, a personal ski instructor and a colleague of the Minister and his family, Łukasz G., - grants granted from public funds, in particular by the National Centre for Research and Development, capital and personal companies associated with the former Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education and the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of There are formal proposals, so before we vote, please, as the first Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u478	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I submit a request for adjournment until Monday. We just found out that this government lost most of it. Therefore, as a result of the blackmail of one of the former coalitioners, you have withdrawn the law on impunity. [[Applause]] But you did not do it for the sake of legal security of Poland, but you did it out of pure cynicism. This application is meant to say, "I'm checking." Either you have a majority and Prime Minister Morawiecki will appear on Monday for a vote of confidence, or you will fulfill this threat to coalitioners, and in fact great Poles who want this government to go down in history. Mr. President! Don't be afraid. Please file a motion to self-solve the Sejm because your time is running out. These disgraceful trade fairs with your coalitioners show that you've lost that instinct. You have lost the leading thought for the good of the Republic, and you are only concerned with your interests. Therefore, in view of the loss of majority (the bell) by the government coalition, I ask that the deliberations be postponed until Monday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u479	Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir, I will put this proposal to the vote. A formal request was made to postpone the sitting until Monday. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting until Monday will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working. 456 Members voted. 224 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The second formal proposal, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! God's happiness in hard work for the country! As we find out, you wanted the marshal with your wolf law, the law of kaduka, lex Witek, to delete the formal amendments we had tabled during the committee's sitting, were examined, were accepted as a minority motion, after, of course, by your majority. The minority proposal is not the adoption of amendments. I made a copy of the same amendment on the counter this morning with procedural caution. I'd like to present one more copy to your marshal. What is it? It is about removing the eugenic condition from the law about the so-called. abortion, that is, legal murder of unborn children. [[Applause]] Since you care so much about life, its safety, its quality in the Republic of Poland (The Bell), give a moment of attention to the life of the smallest and most vulnerable Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u481	Thank you, Madame. This was not a formal conclusion. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for information on the Minister of Justice on the measures taken in 2015 and 2019 to combat pedophilia offences. You're acting on the basis of the law, and this is lawlessness. Your Marshal, one more formal motion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? You can't hear me, Marshal. I'll explain it by the bill. We're at a different point, sir. Out of procedural caution, Marshal. We want to know what right our motion has been deleted. 455 Members voted. 220 for, 233 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a first reading of the Parliamentary bill on crisis witnessing. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 242 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move to vote on the proposal for the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 208 - for, 233 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for clarification by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 - for, 242 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal concerning information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the epidemiological situation in the Śląskie voivodship. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 221 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for information by the President of the Council of Ministers on irregularities that occurred when the Ministry of Health purchased masks and personal protective equipment. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 224 - for, 228 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Boys' Battalions, print No 627. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the establishment of the Boys' Battalions (print No 627). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Battalions of Boys. In mid-1940 the Central Leadership of the People's Movement decided to establish the Boys' Battalions. They were a kind of phenomenon in over a hundred years of political activity of the folk movement, as well as in the history of the Polish people. The organizational structures of the peasant Battalions covered the entire area of the occupied country. They fought over 157,000. soldiers, including the orderlies of the Green Cross over 170 thousand, which made them the second largest military organization of the Polish Underground State after the AK. In terms of the amount of combat actions, the Chłopskie battalions were at the forefront of armed organizations of the Polish resistance movement. The peasants formed and led by them during the occupation proved their deep patriotism. On the 80th anniversary of the Uprising of the Battalions of the Boys' Sejm, the Polish Sejm pays tribute to their creators, leaders, soldiers, orderlies of the Green Cross and all those who supported them during the Nazi occupation. I suggest we adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the creation of the Boys' Battalions. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish with a formal application. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u482	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would also like to thank the High House for adopting this resolution. I will mention another extraordinary figure, which on this occasion should be mentioned, the steadfast general, the commandant of the Battalions of the peasant Franciszek Kaminski, who led this formation. [[Applause]] But today also corresponds with this anniversary of the Uprising of the Battalions of the peasants - events of September 17, 1939 and the 81st anniversary of the Soviet assault on Poland. It seems to me, and I think it will be a thing linking the entire High House, that we should all rise up, honor those who died, fighting and the Nazi invader, and the Soviet invader, all those who were brutally murdered in Katyn, Ostaszkow, Miednoje, Starobielsk and Kozielsk, those who died from exhaustion in the kittens who were taken to Sibir, those whom your marshal celebrated today, on the World Day of Sibirak, all who gave their lives, sacrificed for the free, independent Republic. Hello to their memory.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u483	Let's celebrate their memory with a minute of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Eternal rest please give them, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the draft Act on the Medical Fund presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The additional committee report shall be in print No 604-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u484	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report on the draft Act on the Medical Fund presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, print No 604-A. One amendment was tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u485	Thank you, sir. The Commission requests the adoption of Print Act No 604. The Commission also presents a minority proposal, as well as an amendment in an additional report, on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 7 of the draft law propose that the costs referred to in that provision should not exceed 0,5% the revenue of the fund planned for the financial year concerned. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 222 for, 231 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the proposal, there is no limitation to Article. 39 of the draft law propose, among others, the applicant. delete paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 162 for, 288 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 604, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 440 - for, 12 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed the Medical Fund Act. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Communications on the draft law amending the Act on the National Media Council. The additional committee report shall be in print No 617-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! One amendment was tabled to the draft law amending the Act on the National Media Council during the second reading, which is to extend the date of entry into force of the Act from 7 days to 14 days. Today, the Committee on Culture and Communications has examined this amendment and recommends that the High House reject it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u487	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 617. The Commission is presenting an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 3 draft law applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 215-- for, 240-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 617, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 413 - for, 11 - against, 28 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National Media Council. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on inheritance tax and donations. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 533. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 533, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 452 - for, no one was against, stopped 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the governmental draft law on amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 589-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u488	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Three amendments were made to the government draft law on foreigners and some other laws during the second reading of the draft law. The first amendment was tabled on behalf of the parliamentary club Coalition Polska. It was about systemic changes and it was about the intention to transfer work permits from voivodships to old men. In view of its content, doubts arose both from the Sejm's legislative office and from the government's party on the lack of consistency of the amendment. Consequently, the amendment was not supported by a high committee. Amendments 2 and 3 were tabled by the Law and Justice Club. The amendments concern the improvement of humanitarian aid in the development of emergencies such as recently in Beirut or Belarus. Both amendments received a positive recommendation from a high committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u489	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 589. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 44 - for, against - 234, 179 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, which consists in adding to the Law amending the article. 5a applicants propose to amend the Development Cooperation Act. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I misread it, again. We're going back. In the 2nd amendment, which consists in adding to the Law amending the article. 5a applicants propose to amend the Development Cooperation Act. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission is asking for them to be accepted, and I have read: rejection. Excuse me. It's about their party. We are voting on this. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 441 - for, 12 - against, 3 stopped. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 589, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 438 for, 1 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Emergency Notification System. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act 540. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 540 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 454 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Emergency Notification System Act. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 591-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u490	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act, print No 562. The Sejm at its 17th meeting on 16 September, in accordance with the Rule. 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 591 to the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission has examined two amendments. The Commission has given a negative opinion on both amendments. I propose to the High Sejm that the draft law be adopted against these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u491	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 591. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. By 1 January 2022, the applicant shall propose that the President of the Railway Transport Office designate an entity to carry out the tasks referred to in that provision. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 41 - for, 407 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 5 of the draft law, the applicants propose that the law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 43 for, 407 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 591, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 436 - for, 12 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Rail Transport Act. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 573. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 573, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? No, no, no, no, no, I can see that. 446 Members voted. 363 - for, 14 - against, 69 abstained. The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation, signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. The additional committee report shall be in print No 622-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u492	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 13 amendments were tabled during the second reading. During the discussion at the committee meeting, three amendments were withdrawn, of the other 10 amendments, the committee recommends that the remaining eight be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u493	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 622. The Commission also presents minority proposals and, in an additional report, amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 2 draft law amending the Law on Ports and Seaports. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 221 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a of the draft law containing amendments to the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees granted by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 259 - for, 146 - against, 48 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the draft law, the applicants propose to maintain paragraph. Article 6 15 Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises Polskie Koleje Państwowe. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's started. This is the time. 451 Members voted. 220 for, 230 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 4th draft bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 224 - for, 231 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. Point 5 (1) of the draft law propose that the applicant delete the added paragraph. 3g in Article 3th Railway Fund Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted 223 - in favour, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 14 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 4 to 6 were tabled in Article. 15 draft law containing amendments to the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. add Article. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 263 for, 144 against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. add Article. 10d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 261 - for, 192 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 14hb. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 307 for, 13 against, 132 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article of a draft law containing amendments to the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 259 for, 145 against, holding 50. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th Amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article of a draft law containing amendments to the Act amending certain laws on the health protection system related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 260 for, against - 12, holding 181. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article on the draft law containing provisions concerning the Law on the Social Fund. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 441 - for, 11 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 622, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 261 - for, 137 - against, 55 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 593-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I would like to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. These committees, after considering this project on 16 and 17 September, request the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. One minority request and 16 amendments were tabled by the Civic Platform Club and withdrawn before the vote. Finally, I would just like to stress, in view of the importance of this project, that, firstly, the project pursues the objective of improving the effectiveness of the support of municipal authorities carrying out low-carbon projects in single-family buildings by adapting to the current conditions and rules for participation in the implementation of the "Stop smog" programme, secondly, it creates the Central Register of Building Emissions and, thirdly, improves, and in a very concrete way, the action of the Government's priority programme "Clean Air." The bill follows billions of zlotys to improve air quality, which will be used by residents of every municipality in Poland, so that all the more so this bill is worth emphasis, support and vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u495	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 593. The committees also present a minority proposal, as well as an additional report of amendments, on which we will vote first. All amendments were withdrawn by the applicants. In a minority application, applicants shall propose an amendment to point 6 of point 6. and in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the following paragraph is added: 1 draft amending act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 116 - for, against - 230, abstained 101. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 593, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 437 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations and some other laws. We return to the discussion of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the budget law for 2020. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 572, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 222 - for, 228 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus sent the bill to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, there will now be a change in the order of the vote. We will vote on the animal protection laws after the votes on the two Senate resolutions. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints Nos 594 and 621). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u496	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (print 594). Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 15 September 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 16 September 2020 considered this resolution containing 45 amendments and asked the High Sejm to reject 13 amendments of the Senate contained in points 2, 7, 11 and 14, 19, 21, 25, 26, 28, 29 and 32 and accepted the remaining 32 amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u497	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 38. The Senate has submitted to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to amend Article. 15ka lips. 1. Amendments 3, 5, 15, 16, 18, 22 to 24, 34, 40, 41, 44 and 45 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 3, 5, 15, 16, 18, 22 to 24, 34, 40, 41, 44 and 45, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. No one was for, 441 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 1 point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 225 - for, 227 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 4 point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, 449 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Nobody was for, 452 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 231 - for, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 8 and 10. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was in favor, 450 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 15ka The Senate proposes adding paragraph. 8a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was for, 399 against, 46 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 13. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was against - 403, 46 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 18. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted 231 - in favour, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 15ka The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 20. Amendment 21 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12 and 21 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 229 - for, against - 221, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15ka lips. 21. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 14 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 224, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15kc lips. 10. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was for, 449 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15kc lips. 14. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 454 Members voted. The absolute majority is 228. For - 240, against - 214, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 15kc The Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 15a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In - 1, against - 448, no one stopped. In this situation, the Sejm rejected the amendment... accepted. I'm sorry, I did, actually. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs (1). Amendment 26 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 25 and 26 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. The absolute majority is 228. For - 230, against - 223, holding off on 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15zs. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. No one was against -451, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] In the 28th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 230 - for, 224 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 29th amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 31zo. 8. Amendment 32 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 29 and 32, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 229 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 31zo. 8. Amendments 33, 36 and 37 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 30, 33, 36 and 37 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 1 for, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 31st amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 31zo. 8. Amendment 35 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 31 and 35 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 5 - for, against -441, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 38th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 36. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Nobody was for, 444 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 39th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an amendment to the Law amending the article. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 42nd amendment to the article. The 11th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 43rd amendment to the article. The 11th Law amending the Senate proposes amendments to paragraphs 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 43rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. There was no one against - 445, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain Rights of Workers and the Act on Real Estate Management (Prints No. 595 and 603). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain Rights of Workers, and the Act on Real Estate Management, Print No. 595 and 603. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 15 September 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The Commission has examined this resolution at its meeting on 16 September 2020 and recommends adopting nine amendments: 2, 5, 12 to 16, 18 and 19 and rejecting ten amendments: 1, 3, 4, 6 to 11 and 17. At the same time, amendments 2 and 16, 3 and 4 and 13 and 14 propose to vote together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u499	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Law on special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of law. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to add an article. 16c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding up? 451 Members voted 228 - in favour, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the second sentence in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7. This amendment will be voted on together with Amendment 16. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment to the article. 40e The Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2a. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 239-- for, 211-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. Amendments 5 to 15. The Senate reported it to the article. 3 amending law containing amendments to the Real Estate Management Act. In the 5th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes among others. change of entry into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. No one was in favor, 431 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes the new wording of point 6 and the addition of paragraph 6. 3 and 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes to delete point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 401 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 228 - for, 207 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes to delete point 9 and 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 280 - for, against - 166, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 12. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 229 - for, against - 218, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 214a The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 278 - for, 166 - against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 214b The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 1a and 1b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 225 - for, 221 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. 214b The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 2. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 15th amendment to the article. 215 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 223 - for, against - 222, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment to the article. The 5th Law amending the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 229 - for, 210 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. 6 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Five for, 440 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 8a amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was for, 446 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees and the Act on Real Estate Management. We are returning to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on parliamentary drafts of laws: on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws, on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. Formal conclusion. In the discussion, a request for a third reading was made without referring the draft law to the committee after delivery of the table of amendments. I will put this proposal to the vote in the light of the opposition. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal for a third reading without referring the bill back to the committee after the table of amendments has been sent, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 350 - for, 89 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for print No 625. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that all the amendments voted together are based on the conclusions of the notifiers. I would like to inform you that minority 35's motion has been withdrawn. We proceed with the examination of amendments 5, 8, 11, 12, 15, 19, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32 and 35. Formal motion, Marshal, to change the vote on the basis of the Rule. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. There are no formal proposals during the vote. When it's over. You have no reason to rule out any conclusions that have been formally and legally investigated by the committee... The Sejm Bureau. You have no right to rule out any applications legally submitted and processed. You're committing a crime. You have no right... We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 7, 9, 10, 16, 20, 21, 26, 30, 33, 36 and minority proposals 4, 6, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 43, 44, 45, 49 and 50. We're voting. [[Applause]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 5, 8, 11, 12, 15, 19, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32 and 35, will want to raise your hand and press the button. You're breaking the law, Marshal. You're breaking the law. The Marshal of the Sejm has no right to censor applications that were effectively submitted, processed, received as minority requests. Don't yell. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The Sejm has no right to censor applications that have been effectively submitted, processed, received as minority applications. There's no law. What is the legal basis for your actions? What's the legal basis? By what right, what's going on here? Mr President, I said that with amendments that we will not vote on, I will explain. We are not voting on them at the moment, we are voting on other amendments at the moment. We will vote on this amendment because it has been legally tabled. There is no legal basis for censoring requests made by Members. There's no reason for that. If you've been proceding and voting on the chopper plus Emilevich, vote... Stop screaming. We're in the Seym. Reject this motion, have the audacity. You've already done it at the committee meeting. Just throw him away, but don't break the law. Don't break the law, Marshal. It's a minority request. 42. 424 Members voted. 340 - for, 72 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose to add a new amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? A minority request shall be withdrawn without justification. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't discuss... A slightly disorganized criminal group. Sit down. I formally filed a motion. 454 Members voted. 216 - for, 235 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 1 (l). and give another wording to the addition of point 3c. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 231 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 1 the other wording of point 1. b. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 162 - for, 278 - against, 15 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 1 to add a different wording to point 1. b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 89 votes against, 362, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 210 for, 241 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. With a formal proposal from Mr Kulesz. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u500	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for interruption and convening of the Senior Convention to analyse the situation with regard to the obligation under the notification procedure. I am surprised that my left side of the political scene has forgotten that we are a member of the European Union. It so happens that I am defending religious freedom here, defending multicultural, religious slaughter as a representative of a national group, and yet I am calling for European Union legislation. What is the result of the memorandum I placed on the hands of Mr. Marshal Charzasty this morning? What is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office? This project requires the initiation of a notification procedure in the European Commission. I asked that at the committee meeting yesterday. The government representative had no idea about this. This morning I learned from the marshal that the procedure was started (the bell). If the procedure is started, the legislative process must be stopped. It's not required. The project can't change, and the consequences will be... Thank you, sir. There was a request for a recess. Therefore, I am declaring a 1 minute break. You expose Poland to proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the fact that these rules will not be applied before the Polish... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You are hypocrites of the highest... I'm not surprised that... [[Applause]] And will you accept the European flag from me? [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 55 hours 23 min 58]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u501	I invite all your fellow Members to the O.R. We will continue the vote in a moment. We're taking off. The Treaty of Lisbon. Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We continue to vote. In the 6th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 207 - for, 229 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 7. the amendment has become unobtrusive. The 9th amendment has also become obsolete. In the second minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 2a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 198 - for, 244 Members against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 2b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 203 - for, 243 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. 8. The minority's proposal has become unobtrusive. 10th Amendment and 4th Minority Proposal also without subject matter. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose in point 3 to add a new letter before point 3. a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? What about four? What about the fourth minority proposal? 444 Members voted. Nine for, 358 against, 77 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. 6. The minority's proposal has become pointless. In the 13th Amendment and the 7th Minority Proposal for an Article. 1. applicants shall propose in point 3. point (a) is replaced by the following: b give a different wording to the paragraph. 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment and the 7th minority proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Applause]] 455 Members voted. 209 - for, 234 - against, 12 abstained. The Sejm rejected the offer. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose point 3 (a) in point 3. b give a new wording to the paragraph. 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 41 for, 409 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. 1. applicants propose to add point 3a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 184 - for, 255 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 14th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 4 to add a different wording to point 4. b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 - for, 232 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 5 (a) in point 5. c delete paragraph. 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 41 for, 403 against, 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 5a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 211 - for, 239 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 5b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 208 - for, 238 - against, 4 abstentions. The 13th Sejm rejected the minority's motion. 14. The minority's proposal has become pointless. 15. The minority's proposal has become pointless. 16. The minority's proposal has become pointless. 17. the minority's proposal has become unobtrusive. 18. The minority's proposal has become unobtrusive. 19. The minority's proposal has become pointless. The 16th amendment is also without object. The 20th and 21st minority proposals have become pointless. In the 17th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 39 for, 407 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a point after point 11. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 85 - for, 354 - against, 13 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 20th amendment has become unobtrusive. The 21st amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 22nd minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicants propose in point 13 to add a different wording to point 13. a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 89 - for, 358 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 23rd minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 14 in Article. 34b give a new wording to paragraph. 1 and 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 241 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 15 in Article. Article 34d (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6 after the word "outside" add the words "animal lovers." We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 13 - for, 404 - against, 32 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 25th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 15 in Article. 34d e.g. delete paragraph. 13. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 13 - for, 414 - against, 24 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 26th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 15 in Article. 34d give a different wording to paragraph. 1. This minority proposal brings together minority proposals 27, 28, 30, 32 and 33. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 26, 27, 28, 30, 32 and 33 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Let's take a 10-minute break. Don't take our time. 455 Members voted. 38 for, 413 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the 29th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 15 in Article. 34d give a different wording to paragraph. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 40 for, 406 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 31st minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 15 in Article. Article 34d (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6 plus third sentence. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 31 - for, 412 - against, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 34th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 15 in Article. Article 34d (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 9 plus the second sentence. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 38 for, 409 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 22nd amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 16. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 188 - for, against - 249, 17 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 17a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 60 for, 365 against, 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 37th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 18 in Article. 35 give a different wording to paragraph. 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 180 - for, 246 - against, 23 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 38th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 19. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 39th minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 12 - for, 411 - against, 25 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 39th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose in point 19 in Article. 37 give a different wording to paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 133 - in favour, 290 voted against, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 40th minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add points 19a and 19b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 178 - for, 257 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 41st minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 19a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 24 for, against - 411, 15 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. The 42nd minority proposal and the 23rd amendment will not be put to the vote because they go beyond the subject matter of the submission. Lying and misinformation. Your marshal has no right to censor conclusions... The 26th amendment and the 33rd amendment have become obsolete. The 43rd minority request and 45th minority request became unobtrusive. Your marshal doesn't have that right. It's illegal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 26th and 33rd and of the minority proposals 43rd and 45th, will press the button. What is the legal basis for this action? Please state the legal basis. I'm calling a civil servant... Who's against... Sit down, cavemen. I'm sorry, they're unobtrusive. As a Member of the Sejm, I call on the marshal to state the legal basis. Please don't yell at me here. Please sit down. The legal basis for your action. Ladies and gentlemen, the unobtrusive has become the 30th driver's license and the 44th driver's license. minority request. Kara... There's no legal basis, I'm calling you out of office... In the 46th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 10a-10c. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Forgery, misinformation, lying, breaking the law. Sit down, sir. The Marshal of the Sejm has no legal basis for sanctioning proposals made by Members. It shall be put to the vote and you may reject any request. I suggest you cool your emotions a little bit. I suggest you cool your emotions. 440 Members voted. 92 for, 339 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. You scoundrel. In the 31st amendment and the 47th minority proposal to Article. 10 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of the 31st amendment and the 47th minority proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 172 - for, 239 - against, 36 abstained. The Sejm rejected the offer. In the 48th minority proposal to Article. 11 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 75 - for, 358 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 34th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 12a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 47 for, 394 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 36th amendment has become unobtrusive. 49. the minority's proposal has become pointless. The 50th minority proposal has become unobtrusive. Oh... Why not objectless? What's the basis? We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the entire draft law in print No.625, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal, formal motion. Ha, ha, ha! Why don't you tell us? How come Andzel already knows? Waldek's already got it. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 449 Members voted, in favour - 356, against - 75, and 18 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. Formal proposal, Mr Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! I am making a formal motion to resume the vote. A number of irregularities occurred during the investigation of this law. There's been a lot of lawlessness, a lot of lawlessness in this Seym for the last 24 hours. This will also make this law questionable at EU level. That's the most important thing. The most important thing is that you've done a huge scoundrel. Ooh... $350,000. beef cattle farmers, tens of thousands of poultry workers - you take responsibility for this. You broke Polish agriculture today. You broke your spines in your own club. Once again, you've introduced discipline. She wasn't there for the vote of the bill for life. Formal conclusion. Time. Disgraceful! You're just scoundrels who... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u503	He'll send you back to order. Please leave the podium. I am speaking to you, sir. Mr President, get out of this podium. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But with words, count... You scoundrels are scoundrels. Mr. Marshal, what's it like, there's no punishment for calling names? Of course the Member will be punished. [[Applause]] Mr President, I inform you that on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room has seriously violated the seriousness of the Sejm. You violated the rules... This is a formula that makes it possible to punish the Member. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Appointment of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications (prints Nos 523 and 524). High Izbo! On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 4 and paragraph 1. 4a of the Act - Telecommunications law The President of the Office for Electronic Communications shall appoint the Sejm at the request of the President of the Mr Jack Oko has been nominated as President of the Office of Electronic Communications. I ask the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski to present his candidacy. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the authority of the Prime Minister, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, I am pleased to submit Mr Jack Oko's candidacy as President of the Office for Electronic Communications. Dr. Eng. Jacek Oko is a graduate of the Faculty of Electronics at the Wrocław University of Technology, where he currently conducts teaching classes. in the direction: Cybersecurity. He is also the director of the Wrocław Network and Supercomputing Centre. Between 1989 and 1998 as an employee of the Wrocław University of Technology, in addition to carrying out teaching tasks, he also participated in many telecommunications projects, e.g. in the implementation of ISDN technology or in studies on the introduction of teleworking and teleeducation services. He was then associated with both commercial companies such as Telefonia Lokalna SA, Avista Media or Telefonia Dialog and again with the university, where he served as director of IT and deputy chancellor of Wrocław University of Technology. IT. He was a co-author, co-ordinator and manager of many projects carried out, among others. by the Marshal's Office of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, National Centre for Research and Development, Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy. Among the most important are: Cybersecurity for the economy of the future, Regional Cyber Security Centre and Specialized Polish scientific infrastructure for research laboratories, as well as the Strategy for the development of the Information Society in Lower Silesia until 2020. He is the author of many scientific works, author or co-author of 42 publications and 49 unpublished works. He is a promoter of over 80 engineering, master's, as well as maintainer of cybersecurity students' scientific circle. The main areas of his professional interest, including scientific, are technical, business and legal aspects of ICT services and networks, the development of the Internet, the convergence of telecommunications, IT and media, and the problems of the information society both in terms of planning and implementation and management of systems. I am fully convinced of Dr Jack Oko's high level of competence and scientific experience, as well as practical management skills, which is extremely valuable in the context of his role as President of the Office for Electronic Communications. When submitting this candidacy, I kindly ask the High House to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u505	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present the opinion of the committee. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There isn't. Since Mr Witold Czarnecki is ill, I therefore have a question as to whether someone else on the committee will present the opinion of the committee. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Chairman of the committee. I can introduce you. He's got COVID, unfortunately. Just a minute. May we have the chairman of the committee, please? You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies gave its opinion on the nomination submitted for President of the Office for Electronic Communications and, following a discussion with the candidate, expressed a positive opinion on the appointment of President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u507	Thank you very much, sir. This is a special situation, thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski came forward to discuss this point. I didn't volunteer. No? Sorry, there's been a mistake. It's not for that. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone like to speak on this candidacy? I don't hear any calls. I therefore close the discussion. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 28a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Jack Oko as President of the Office of Electronic Communications will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 241, 139 was against, 60 stopped. The Sejm has appointed Mr Jack Eye as President of the Office of Electronic Communications. We'll proceed with the examination... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Something's not right. No, I've got the score. There's been another result. Oh, yesterday. I've got the right score. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But we're about to get you to see it, too. I got the right score on my tablet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's true. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We can read the results from October. I really don't have any extra results, calm down. Something's done here, but we'll fix it in a minute. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But we don't know anything. He's here. Ah... Can we vote again? I'm giving you the results again. 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. 241 voted against - 139, 60 abstained. The Sejm has appointed Mr Jack Eye as President of the Office of Electronic Communications. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 619). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 619, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 411 - for, 4 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 17th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Ladies and gentlemen, I still have a communication on the committee for you. The meetings of the committee shall also be held remotely. The recent Convention and Bureau meetings made arrangements. I know that this has not been included in some of the presidents, so I would like to inform you that those Members who are physically present in the committee room may vote... They have the right to vote. So far it has been different, because the meetings were held in several rooms, we voted from other rooms. At the moment, I decide that they can vote at committee meetings by raising the hands of those Members who are physically present there. Because they can forget the tablet or they can't... They've always been able to. Mr. Speaker! Please don't yell at me. I'm sick of your yelling. Really. Enough of your yelling. [[Applause]] And vice versa. Ladies and gentlemen, those Members who participate in a committee meeting remotely outside the Sejm vote with tablets, and those who are present in the committee room and do not have a tablet - because in general they can also vote with a tablet - can vote physically by raising their hand and it will be counted. If there was a committee meeting and it had a bearing on something... I'll call a committee, sir. I'll explain right away. We have not put on the agenda a point on the election of an ombudsman at the request of Members of the Civic Coalition who have asked that the committee be convened once again that is why... Repeat the vote. ...that Members who were physically in committee could not vote in person. And that's why this point wasn't put in order. This was done at your request, at the request of the Members of the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, no one else is making a statement. Therefore, I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mr Paweł Szramka, Club Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Are you Mr Paweł Szramka? There isn't. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Coalition. I'm here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 17 September 1939 is the day of the Soviet Union's treasonous attack on Poland. This attack was simultaneously fulfilling the provisions of the secret protocol annexed to the Stalin-Hitler Pact, i.e. Ribbentrop-Molotov of August 1939. Thus, the non-aggression pact concluded between Poland and the Soviet Union was broken. It is worth noting that the Red Army entered the eastern territories of the Second Republic without declaring war. The official justification for the invasion was the statement given on the night from 16 to 17 September by the popular foreign affairs commissioner to the Polish ambassador in Moscow, Wacław Grzybowski. The diplomatic note stated that in connection with the collapse of the Polish state, the Soviet government was supposedly forced to protect the lives and property of the people living in the eastern parts of the Republic of Ukraine and Belarus. Consequently, it was found unlawful that all agreements concluded with Poland, including the Treaty of July 1921 had ceased to apply. This double invasion of Germany and the Soviet Union eventually led to the fourth partition of Poland. One of the main objectives of Soviet action was to hit the elites so far, which was to destroy the order. As Prof. Andrzej Paczkowski wrote: Wszak terror, in order to be fully effective, had to be in the literal sense of mass. In the first half of 1940 the entire families and social groups were deported; in February the Polish settlers, almost all of the Forest Service, administrative staff, were killed; in April - the families of prisoners, arrested and convicted. The most tragic event is a murder committed at over 22,000. Polish officers and police officers who were murdered in Katyn, Kharkov, Tver and Mednoje. The Katyn crime has become a pillar of memory for us Poles of the victims and fate of our nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u509	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u510	Thank you, Marshal. It's 15 minutes past the hour. 1, after midnight, from 17 to 18 September 2020 Brief summary. Last night, in the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, members of the Confederacy circles tried to remove the threat of proceding the wrong, harmful act, which was finally passed a few decades ago. A law which, under the pretext of caring for the welfare of animals, actually eliminates certain branches, centers of the Polish agri-food industry. So on the one hand, we tried to reduce this danger. We have introduced amendments to this law that have mitigated its fatal consequences. On the other hand, we decided to say: "I am checking and we have tabled a proposal to include this law in the matter - and therefore the amendment, this is the status of the law - the issue of eugenic abortion. Very simple amendment - Article. 1a. We have requested that it be added to the so-called law. family planning and abortion disable eugenicity as legalizing the killing of unborn children. The amendment was examined at the committee meeting, was accepted by the president, was put to the vote. In the vote, she did not gain the support of the majority. That's understandable, because in committees, the majority has law and justice. But we have the right - we have benefited from this - to refer this amendment as a minority proposal, that is what it is called in the procedure, for further work, for further procedure. And this procedure is over here today. It turned out that there are no votes approved by the Marshal (The Bell) Elizabeth Witek of our minority proposal. He was thrown in the trash. And I'd like to dictate it for the record. The Marshal of the Sejm is not to perform a censor function. The Marshal of the Sejm does not have such prerogatives...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u511	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u512	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u513	Go on, because it's time...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u514	I'm on my way to the end. I declare to the record that the Marshal of the Sejm has no basis for the selection of requests made by Members. The Marshal may, should and is somehow forced by the procedure to put to the vote any motion submitted... Thank you very much. ...if it has been formally notified, correctly. Yes, sir. And to this, apparently, there was nothing missing, since at the committee's meeting this request was being processed. Thank you very much, sir. So, then... Please... You've been out of time for a minute. Thank you very much. Marshal Witek committed a crime here today. And I hope that this will not only be remembered, but that it will also find its legal consequences in the history of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u515	Thank you, sir. Really.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u516	One more thing, Marshal. One showing labour standards in the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u517	But we've been dating for three minutes, and you say four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u518	One thing I think you're interested in is the marshal. Art. 198 c of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm states that the electronic form of communication in the work of the Sejm is - note - equal to all others, i.e. normal procedure. So the great discovery of your Marshal Witek here...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u519	Thank you very much, sir. Really, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u520	...5 hours. The fact that you are allowed to vote by raising your hand indicates that Marshal Witek does not know the law even at the level of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u521	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u522	Hence criminal acts and omissions. Thank you very much, Marshal. I bow down. Have a good night. God bless you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u523	Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u524	Mrs. Marshal! The High Seym is gone! We are just after the disgraceful days of Polish parliamentarianism, so I want to summarize them briefly. In just a few days, a project that was not consulted on all the agricultural sectors, which unfortunately was not an opportunity to discuss peacefully. Neither at committee meetings, nor here in the House, was held by the Sejm by three readings. Today we have witnessed an astonishing situation when the Law and Justice, not only at ideological and ethical level, received support from the Left, but even at the procedural level, received support from the Left and the Civic Platform - once a citizen - today, this party no longer deserves to be called - in the absence of a committee, in which it could normally be discussed, where industry organisations could express themselves, where farmers and breeders could present their arguments. The legislation that blocks economic activity in many sectors - we are talking about meat processing, we are talking about farming, we are talking about international trade here, it will also affect the feed market, and thus also on agriculture, on cereal cultivation, it will affect the entire ecosystem of agriculture and food production in Poland. I've been trying to estimate, I've talked to people in the industry, how many families are going to touch how many people are employed. This is where the under-numbers were reported, said that a few hundred people were working, that a few thousand. The truth is that if you count all the families that work in the related sectors that Members voted on today, it will certainly be over a million Poles. And all this was done in a few days, without any consultation, without listening to anyone, in a horrible legislative mess, with huge doubts about the correctness of procedures. This was agreed by the PiS, with the exception of some of the Members who had kept their face, kept their decency despite the blackmail of their party's leadership. That's what the entire Left agreed to. This was agreed by almost the entire Civic Coalition, amazing that the party, which started with being a representative of Polish entrepreneurs - today only six out of 100 Several dozens did not vote in favour. Today, the Platform eventually became a centre-left, stopped representing entrepreneurs, stopped representing the ideals of economic freedom, free initiative, became a party of an ideological left. Barbara Nowacka, Grzegorz Napieralski, Katarzyna Piekarska - the leaders of the Left intercepted a party that started as conservative-liberal. The only clubs that kept their face are PSL, who defended today, inconsistently, in some votes some broke out, but generally defended the interest of the Polish village and meat processing, and of course the Confederation, which did everything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to represent the arguments of those who have not been given the right to vote either in the Sejm or in the committee, have not been admitted. This is a disgrace to Polish parliamentarianism, what happened here today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-17-sejm-17-2.u525	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 17th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 18th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 7 and 8 October 2020, will be delivered to ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 1 min 25]]
