ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u1	I open the tenth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Richard Śvilski and Senator Rafał Ambrozik as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the Senate meeting room will be led by Senator Ryszard Śvilski, and in room 217 the list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. At the same time, I ask Senator Victor Durlak to serve as Senator Secretary in Room 182. Mr. Secretary, please take your designated seats. Dear Senators, I would like to provide you with some information on this meeting before proceeding. As a result of the epidemic, after obtaining the approval of the Senior Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 182 and in room 217, please sign up for questions and discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Śvilski, in Senator Ambrozik's room 217 and in Senator Durlak's room 182. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I hope that all States in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote, which aims to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that starting a vote in the Webex system will result in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK." We also remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on the "Submit" buttons, "Submit," "Submit," "Transmit," after the vote is cast, first in the voting window, and then in the reply window to the confirmation question. Mr. Computers, can we finish the vote now? Yes? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted in favour of... These are irrelevant results. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In any event, 62 for, 7 against, 23 abstentions. So all the buttons are working properly. The most important thing is that 92 senators have voted for the moment. [[Voting No 1]] I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its tenth meeting on 16 April, adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the law on geodetic and cartographic law and certain other laws; to the Act on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the sixth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventh and eighth Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to examine the points concerning the Law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 and the Law on amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, despite the fact that the Commission's reports on these laws were provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the point: a law on special rules for conducting general elections to the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. and consider it as point one. This was the second item on the agenda so far. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately introduce the state of natural disaster throughout the territory of the Polish State and consider it as item two of the agenda; the Act amending the Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration and considering it as item four of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I object to the introduction of a point concerning the draft resolution calling on the government to immediately introduce the state... excuse me... A natural disaster. I'm very sorry, for the many reasons we discussed yesterday at the committee meeting. We believe that this is a proposal that is contrary to the current government policy, with the current decisions on defrosting the economy. It is completely inconsistent with all the multi-step assumptions of the fight against the coronavirus that the government is implementing. In addition, this point was introduced, it can be said, at the last minute, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the representative of the government did not have the opportunity to present his position to the committee. We believe that both the procedure for submitting this resolution and the moment are simply unjustified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u3	I understand that the senator's objection concerns only this point, not the cogeneration bill. Yes? Yeah, just this point. Mr. Marshal Kaminski... There's no need... But I don't know if you're filing another motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u4	I have, Mr. Marshal, a motion against the conclusion... A counterclaim? ...Miss Marshal Blows. I'd like to give my opinion... There's no need for that now that... There's already been a motion. ...to make an objection, an opinion which does not agree with the motion for this item to be removed from the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to express my opposition to this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u5	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I remind you that according to the rules of procedure, if there is a vote of objection... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to be calm and calm. In the face of your objection, Senator Pęk, I'm in charge of the vote. We proceed to the vote on the proposal made by me to complete the agenda with a point concerning the second reading of the draft resolution calling for the Government of the Republic of Poland... etc. Who's in favor of this motion? [[Talking in the O.R.]] And Senator Jackowski? Mr. Senator Jackowski is clearly breaking the rules, so that... the card is, it's written. And on two hands... Uh-huh. Well, I don't even suspect the senator voted for two hands, no matter where. Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted in favour, 48 in favour of a request for addition, 44 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] The motion has been accepted. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the agenda has been supplemented by a point including a second reading of the draft resolution calling on the government to introduce the state of the natural disaster and a point on the Energy Law and the Act on the Promotion of Electricity from High-efficiency Co-generation. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Martynowski? Maybe not on the agenda, so that... next formal motion I would like to make as soon as the agenda has been adopted. Okay, Mr. Senator. I therefore state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 10th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Following the preparation of the reports by the Senate committees, the agenda will be supplemented by points concerning the following laws: the Law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the Act amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws; this generally concerns domestic violence. Mr Martynowski, I presume, has a formal motion. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u6	Yes, thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to do it according to the article. 48 (1) (a) Section 2 (9) of the Senate Rules of Procedure shall make a formal request for a change in the conduct of the deliberations, discussions and voting. I'm talking about changing the way we're doing things from remote to hybrid at the moment. It's on the landline. Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, We are not, as a club of law and justice, against remote deliberations, we are against the form that is at the moment. I believe that since committees must meet here in the Senate and cannot sit or vote remotely, it is illogical that we, in plenary, can vote remotely at the moment. So much so, ladies and gentlemen, illogically, that according to the regulations I'll remind you, it's an art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The senator shall have the presence and active participation of the Senate and the Senate bodies. I'm sure the Senate is the committee. I don't understand why it's like this once, like this once. On 30 March, I tabled a request with several senators to amend the Rules of Procedure so that it could be held remotely and in the case of committee meetings and plenary meetings. That is why I would very much ask for this change and for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u7	I should like to inform the President that, first of all, the agenda has been approved. Secondly, the Seniors' Convention decided without opposition that, given the state of the ongoing epidemic, the deliberations would be conducted in a hybrid way, i.e. both remote and traditional manner. I would also like to inform you what the senator knows very well that the question of the committee's remote deliberations will be the subject of a final study and will be decided over the next few days or weeks, to which I personally invited Mr President. I do not know how you imagine that those who chose a remote form would be brought to Warsaw within a few hours. If your proposal had passed, it would have meant that the sitting would have to be adjourned and, as you know, the sitting is very important on time. Therefore, I will not put your proposal to the vote. We are now adjourned... I'm still... Mr. Senator Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, we have our attention to the way the proceedings are conducted. But now it's... Shh. ... But don't bother the senator. One of the senators called it in. At the beginning of the session, Mr Marshal asked if anyone had any objections to this agenda, and at that moment Senator Martynowski presented his attention. Since it is not clear and stated in the records that we can conduct this remotely, further processing is simply non-regulatory. I'd ask you to consider it, it can't be that way... At this point, a recess must be made until those who are remotely decide whether they want to vote remotely or whether they want to come to the meeting or whether they are practically going to attend the Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u9	Mr. Senator, I quote you an article. 16 point 4 of the Senate Rules of Procedure: The Seniors' Convention shall perform its tasks through I read here the point of examination and the presentation of proposals on the way in which the Senate will discuss or discuss. The Convention has given a positive opinion on the conduct of these proceedings in a hybrid, mixed manner. If that explanation isn't enough for you, we'll ask for the opinion of the legislators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u10	I'll just add one sentence to that, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, as well as a formal matter. My opinion is that the convention does not have the right or the ability to take action that does not comply with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u11	Mr. Senator, if necessary, I will read this article again. 16. This is absolutely in accordance with the rules of procedure. Are there votes against Senator Martynowski's motion?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u12	I have a question for your marshal. Mr. Marshal, have the previous proceedings been accepted by the Sejm as legal? Because the Sejm was working on our amendments, some of them even accepted them, adopted in exactly the same manner as the Senators of Law and Justice are questioning today. The Sejm considered it legal for us to proceed in this way, not in another way, because it considered our amendments, which were adopted in this way. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u13	Let me also remind you that the President has signed these laws. Marshal Karczewski reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u14	Mr. Marshal, I think there's been a misunderstanding. I would very much like to ask the marshal to conduct his deliberations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. A formal request has been made and the marshal is required to vote on the formal proposal. We can put a new item on the agenda at any time, change the procedure, so it is in our rules of procedure. Most of this will pass and the decision will be made, the High House will make the decision, not, with all due respect, Mr. Marshal. A formal motion has been made, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by Senator Martynowski and our duty, the Senate, is to vote if there is a vote of objection. I understand that Mr. Marshal opposes this, I understand that the majority of the Senate opposes it, but it is impossible not to vote on a formal motion. There is a formal request and this formal request must be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u15	Senator Blackbay. But why? Senator Czarnobaj, then Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to file a counterclaim. And a brief argument... He was against it, Mr. Marshal. Which one? Your marshal... There can't be a few counterclaims. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes? Oh, the way it was reported, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u17	Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted a formal request, and it should be voted on. There shouldn't be a discussion right now. I, ladies and gentlemen, appeal once again... Because if you accept this interpretation of your marshal, then none of the senators should file a formal motion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u19	Mr. Senator Martynowski, the formal motion will be passed after the meeting of the Senior Convention, which I am calling at the moment. I'm declaring a half-hour break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 26 to 12 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Have all the senators taken their seats? Let me remind you that Mr. Martynowski's formal application has been received. Please, Senator, remind him to the senators. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Martynowski. I ask you to make your proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u20	It's some weird formula that you have to repeat the formal conclusion twice. I think he's in the report, Mr. Marshal. I don't know if you want to prolong something right now or not? I don't understand, because the formal conclusion is over. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u21	Mr. Senator, there are no double or triple bottoms or conspiracy theories in which, perhaps, some believe. I'm asking you to remind me of this request after the recess. The break lasted half an hour...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u22	Specially, Mr. Marshal, for you: according to the article. 48 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. 2 item 9, formal request to change the way in which the deliberations, discussions and voting are held. I mean, there's no remote vote, no hybrid vote, just like it is right now. I wish it were stationary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u23	Thank you very much. That's all it was. Are there any negative conclusions? Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u24	I would like to ask, Mr. Marshal, if we are sure that all our remote voters have access to the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u25	We did a rehearsal vote. Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! We have received several dozen opinions for this law, we held a very important substantive debate at the committee meeting, we have knowledge. We cannot drag this out and cause such chaos that we will now suddenly draw to Warsaw... move the sitting and download those who vote remotely for various reasons, including health reasons. The previous sitting was conducted in this way, and I see no reason for bringing about chaos, confusion and dragging on the Senate's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u27	Thank you very much. In any case, the formal application must be voted on if it meets the formal requirements. I would like to remind you that this proposal meets the formal requirements, because formal proposals include requests to change the way in which the deliberations are held, to discuss and to vote. So that this proposal meets the formal requirements. I'm calling a vote. Let me remind you that Senator Martynowski has requested that the agenda be changed to a traditional... I guess the way you drive... ...to change the way the proceedings are conducted in a traditional way. However, there were votes against, in favour of maintaining the hybrid form. Who's in favour of Senator Martynowski's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Gentlemen of Computer Science, can we get the results back? Yes? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 45 for, 51 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Senator Martynowski's motion was not accepted. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We discussed this at the convention meeting, there was a discussion... Therefore, as Senator Brejza also referred to here, in order to reject a possible attempt, so to say gently, a dispute concerning compliance, non-compliance or other matters relating to the rules of procedure, I ask, Mr Marshal, to declare an hour's rest in order to meet the Rules Committee and the Legislative Commission, in order to bring forward a proposal which has been submitted by law and justice, and to settle this problem. So the procedure would be this: there's a meeting of two committees, then there's a motion to the High Senate and its adoption. Then no one will resent the fact that voting or sittings are held in a hybrid way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u29	This is... Which one? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're now announcing an hour's break, which is until 1:15 p.m. I ask the Rules of Procedure Committee and the Legislative Commission to meet for the purpose of examining the request made by the PiS senators for a remote vote. At the same time, I propose that we immediately address the issue of remote voting in committees in order to deal with both of these matters. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u30	Sorry, I talked to the legislators, they asked for some time. Would there be a chance to do that at 12:30? Is this about the 1:30 break? Yes. The point is that before the committee meeting, the Legislative Office should have a moment too. And the question is, are you Senator Elephant? He's probably the representative of the applicants. He'll be attending a committee meeting. There it is, there it is. Yes? There it is. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u31	Thank you very much. So I'm announcing a recess until 1:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 09 to 15 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 99 and the report of the Commission In print No 99 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a report to the committee. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion. There's a discussion going on right now, and there's a show going on... As the senator presents his report, this formal proposal will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will try to discuss the proceedings of the joint committees The Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which lasted 2 days, i.e. It took place last week, April 24th, Tuesday, and it was continued yesterday, Monday. One of the most important topics that we discussed was the thread of a long supposedly proceding bill by the Senate. And during the committee's deliberations, and in the media, Law and Justice politicians were talking about the freezer, about the fact that we are delaying the process on these laws, that citizens are waiting for the outcome of our work. I wouldn't say that if it weren't for Senator Martynowski's conclusions today. And here I must, unfortunately, return to the words of the classic, Mr Giertych... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I've got here: Polish Radio, Roman Giertych. But what does that involve? I remind you: the Sejm, the Sejm. I also have here a statement by Marshal Karczewski:.Obstructive actions of Marshal Tomasz Grodzki. And like Roman Giertych, we're gonna say, "I'm checking." Especially since today's proposal by Senator Martynowski would have postponed our House's deliberations by two days. You've been waiting for them! So I say, check it out! Well, I've got the votes here, and we're looking at... Well, in favor of a delay of at least two days, or maybe ad Kalendas Graecas, the review of this bill, you voted Marshal Karczewski. Yesterday at the committee meeting, as well as in the media, you spoke quite strongly on this subject, Senator Pęk, saying that there is delaying important things. And I would also like to say that we are proceeding not only with this fatal bill on correspondence choices, but also with the Shield. With that in mind, I was hoping that Senator Pak would be in favour of voting on this as soon as possible. I'm thrilled to see you vote Senator Bang. Well, he voted in favour of the delay. And I could quote a few more of our fellow senators, who also... What happened at the committee meeting... I'm talking, Mr. Senator. You're the committee's rapporteur... I am the rapporteur and report the most important point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, may I? I am reporting on the most important point and the most important issue that has been examined in committee. Don't interrupt. And that's how I could talk about my colleagues. Probably endlessly. As to the discussion of the committee meeting, I would like to stress that to this day we are waiting for the two most serious regulations without which we have no chance to assess this law. I would therefore like to quote two paragraphs of your letter to our committee, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin. "The Ministry of State Assets, " says Prime Minister Sasin, and this has been considered by our committees. In order to ensure the proper application of the provisions of the Act in the event of its entry into force, she has, of course, taken up work on the draft regulations... The letter is from April 30th. Well, the bill, as you know, is much earlier. I read further: of course, it took up work on the draft regulations to which the Minister of State Assets was obliged to issue. The result of this work is not yet definitive and it is therefore currently not possible to transfer it. And let me remind you: half of the provisions of this law are references to these regulations. Mr Sasin continues to write. That the Ministry of State Assets is not competent to answer the question of printing voting cards. This situation tells me to quote the words of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz from yesterday. Well, he said at our committee meeting something like this... And I have the impression that the PiS senators were scared of what Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz just said. And he said that if it weren't for such important matters, for Poland, for our security and for democracy, it would really be appropriate to agree to complete this bill and carry out these elections, or actually allow the authorities to compromise themselves in these elections. I should, in line with my love and education, start with the Constitution, but the four years of my previous term of office have made me realize that, even though there are so many very good lawyers among the senators of Law and Justice, unfortunately you do not attach any importance to what the Constitutionalists say. So I'll start. That's how it's gonna start. From the safety and health of citizens, because this is the most important in this law. What do the most important people who care about security say about this? I have here a letter from the chief health inspector who has been appointed to this post by a government majority. Do you know what you're writing to the chief health inspector? Nothing. The Chief Health Inspector says he can't really comment on whether it's safe or not. Why? This is because the Act contains provisions indicating that detailed arrangements for the implementation of the election process will be governed by implementing acts. So the most important person in Poland now In addition to the Minister of Health, the most important one is not able to say whether the security of the elections can be guaranteed or not. If you think it makes no sense to talk about waiting for implementing acts, I would very much like to hear what you would say to the Chief Health Inspector. Then our committee received a letter from a national consultant in the field of epidemiology. We're dealing with an epidemic, we're dealing with an epidemic, so we could assume that's an important opinion. And what can we read there? From the perspective of the current epidemiological situation, the correspondence route has advantages, especially in comparison with the organisation of elections by the traditional method, but it should be noted that this route is not without epidemiological risk at the various stages of implementation. In order to assess and present an expert opinion in the present case, the scope of the information on the conduct of the planned process described in the Act is insufficient. I would like to hear a rational response to the position of a man who is responsible for the health of Poles. Additional information is needed... And further: the text of the Act does not indicate them, because I understand that it is a technical document, while the details of the various elements of election preparation will be included in the Regulations. The regulations again! - as indicated in the document in Article. Point 9 and Article 3 Six, nine and twelve. These are only 2 opinions which indicate that, in fact, such an opinion cannot be delivered if there are no regulations in hand. And what does the General Board of the Polish Society of Epidemiologists and Doctors of Infectious Diseases write? In accordance with Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of And as the chairman of the State Election Commission explained to us during the committee meeting, it may be even a few or several days. And no one at the committee's hearing argued that. There was no person who could deny this calculation showing how long it would take to count the votes. I return to the opinion of the General Board of the Polish Society of Epidemiologists:... to spend 3 to 45 people in one room for a long time, both because of the meetings preceding the elections and during the elections themselves. If one of these people is infected, there is a very high risk of transmission of infection to others. In order to minimise the risk of transmission of infection, the members of the committee should be examined for sacs in the direction of SARS-CoV-2 using molecular methods in time to obtain the result of this examination before undertaking work activities in the committee. With current technical capabilities, the shortest time would be about 12 hours, but in practice it would be more than 24 hours. In the event of a positive outcome, a member of the Regional Election Commission should be excluded from its membership. Unfortunately, Art. 11 The Act does not provide for the expiry of membership of the Regional Election Commission as a result of the necessary isolation. It should be borne in mind that the sensitivity of the test performed from material obtained from the nasal and throat cavity is only 70%, which means that 30% of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 are negative and that they may infect other members of the peripheral committee. How can you fight it? Well, these activities, as the Polish Epidemiological Society writes, include the use of an apron with sleeves in combination with a cap, shoe protectors or an alternative waterproof suit with a hood, and additionally masks, goggles, capes, etc., etc. You may not stay in this room for more than 2 and 4 hours depending on the physical strength of the person concerned. Act in Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and 6 do not specify how to protect the members of the electoral committees against SARS-CoV-2 infection, in the period preceding the committee's work, or in the application of protection measures. Due to the difficult availability of good quality suits for longer work, the alternative may be to impose 14 days' quarantine on all members of the regional electoral committees prior to each election round. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this exit is impossible because of the deadlines and what the President of the State Election Commission told us yesterday, i.e. There's not enough people who want to be on the election boards right now. As far as those who will be most vulnerable are concerned, we have listened, but we also have this in writing, the opinion of the Free Workers' Union of the Post Office. What do the postmen say? In our opinion, the Act of 6 April 2020 adopted by the Polish Parliament does not eliminate a number of different threats to the life and health of workers and recipients of electoral packages. The Polish Post Office, i.e. its employees, will be subject not only to the obligation to deliver electoral packages, but also to deliver them on the day of the election to municipal electoral committees, and this already involves direct exposure to infection of tens or hundreds of thousands of people. Even if the posters exaggerate this threat or it's smaller, look at the fact that it's written by the people who are going to do it, and they're really afraid of it. Come on. If these packages are packages without the recipient's data, or leaflets, the entire distribution process will be responsible for the Polish Post Office. Post workers will perform a large part of the tasks of electoral committees without any training and without formal powers. All customer complaints, whether justified or not, related to any irregularities, will be addressed to those who will serve these electoral packages, i.e. mail workers. Mail workers also raise the following comments. Like, uh... is to act as an employee of the Polish Post during the service of the electoral package, when the addressee does not have a delivery box And from what we've been told, there could be more than a few hundred thousand cases of this kind on the Polish scale in the case of single-family homes. Or is it destroyed? Should he attempt to deliver the electoral package personally to the addressee, to avow the package or to return it to the electoral commission? If so, in what form is this to be done? Again, if we had a regulation right now, we could probably respond to some of these concerns, but they're not there. What if the recipient of the electoral package complains that the electoral package has been delivered to him either destroyed or damaged, or finds that he has not received the package at all, even if it is not true? Postmen continue to say that they are afraid of such situations, because some people say that they will do anything, e.g. will throw away, smoke these electoral packages, etc., etc. They're afraid of it. We have no way of responding to their concerns. In the periphery of cities and rural areas, the construction of single-family homes is growing intensively. In many cases, city offices or municipalities have not given or named street names and have not designated real estate numbering. And the question from the posters is, how are we supposed to find these people? What if the mailman wasn't paying attention... And that's what the posters emphasized during our meeting. So, what if a postman or another employee fails to notice a simple human mistake and instead of delivering it to box 9, deliver it to number 8 or 10, he's just gonna make a mistake? There is no access, in any way, and no possibility to correct your mistake. There are 10 such comments. These are the comments of people who, under this law, are burdened with an obligation that they have never been able to solve before, have not solved it. We were told by the posters that some training was being carried out. Of course, they were unable to tell what these trainings were based on, because there is neither law nor regulation. Yeah, but I hear there's some training. However, they continued to claim that this was insufficient and that there are still many hypothetical situations for which they do not want to be responsible. And, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't some fancy invention of the opposition, but they really came to us and wrote us about the dangers. He does that, for example. Trade Union Forum. This is, for example. A letter from April 17, delivered to us, but also sent to the President of the Council of Ministers: We cannot, however, write posters, remain passive to the dangers to which Polish Post workers, their closest and ultimately the entire Polish society are exposed. Therefore, it is difficult to understand the logic of the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Poland, who, through the exhibition in your person, speaks of the accumulated capital of experience, successes, humility, the need to maintain a social distance, and on the other hand makes decisions, it is difficult to call it otherwise, a radical increase in the risk of increased infections and the tragic consequences of them. Trade unionists write: "Since on the one hand the Polish model of the fight against koravirus is a combination of many good practices and appropriate dynamics of actions, what is the purpose of organising elections that can destroy the effort, dedication and determination of millions of Poles and Poles?." For today we could not ask, because, remind you, there was no Minister of Kraska except Mr. - Thank you very much. - Thank you very much. Government representatives or applicants. He was there for a while, he made a statement, and then he left. He didn't answer our questions. We couldn't ask that. But if what the union wrote is true, it is a problem, because what I would like to quote is: the entire state of employment in PP is on sickness benefits. This is a gigantic weakening of the capacity of the whole environment, looking through the prism of normal operating conditions, let alone the burden of implementing correspondence choices... Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt, but according to the rules, the report should be in 20 minutes. Good. Excuse me. Of course I'm done, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to further draw your attention to the negative opinion of the State Election Commission, which was expressed during the committee meeting as well as in the media, and I would like to ask. The State Election Commission wishes to point out that Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 draft law, instead of article. 230, Article should be invoked. 314 electoral codes. During the committee meeting, the words of the Senators of Law and Justice were expressed by Senator Pęk, that calling this bill a bubble is too harsh... Gnith. Yeah, I'm sorry, of course. But among other things. Gnome and bubble. Now I would like to draw your attention to what the State Election Commission points out, that this is the confusion of elections. I don't know who wrote it. I understand the Members. Here's an indication, not a reference to the presidential election, but a reference to the parliamentary elections. So either it's a bubel because it's a mistake, it's a mistake, it's a mistake, and it's an empty legal rule, it's outrageous, or there's some other idea, and it's really about a new way. That's what you pointed out, Professor. Piotrowski, that he doesn't know if it's just a typographical mistake or if there's another way of introducing parliamentary elections in this mode. And I am surprised if it is indeed just a mistake that you do not wish to change and that you do not make an amendment in this regard, but you want to vote without amendments. I will not talk about all the other legal opinions, the constitutionalists' opinions, they are crushing, there is virtually no positive opinion. We have a letter from 340 professors, law doctors from all universities who say that this is absolutely impossible and that it is unconstitutional. I'm not gonna focus on it because I started with it. Unfortunately, such arguments, as the previous term has shown, are in no way taken into account by you... you have never considered them. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, and I'm very sorry for your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u33	Thank you. I understand there's a motion from the board to reject this bill, right? Yes, the request of a majority of committees is to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you very much, Senator. Let me remind you that according to the article. Paragraph 46 (1) may not last more than 20 minutes, unless the Speaker of the Senate, due to the importance of the subject matter, allows a longer speaking time. I have a question for Senator Martynowski: now do you wish to make your formal application or after the speech of the rapporteur for minorities... Now. ...Mr. Senator Burns, or at any other time? I want to fold it right now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. According to Art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate request that the deliberations be kept confidential in connection with this point, which is being held at the moment. We shall provide a statement of reasons prior to the decision on the confidentiality of the deliberations, in accordance with Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. I'm putting my signatures on your hands because you need the signatures of 10 senators. I want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u35	You're welcome, Senator Blackbay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u36	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to file a counterclaim for a simple reason. There's nothing classified. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS Senators, there's really nothing secret about this project, and if you have any secret and secret knowledge, it's an organ, go there and talk. We want to carry out this project until the end and as Senate take a stand. You do what you do. Please don't do this again, because it has as much to do with secrecy as this law does with the rule of law. That's why I'm filing a counterclaim. There's nothing...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u37	Thank you very much. There are two conclusions... Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue before we vote against this proposal... Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u38	According to my interpretation and interpretation of the Senators of Law and Justice, this is not a formal application from a catalogue of formal proposals that can be voted against, but a special application requiring the signature of 10 Senators. I believe that, after the 10 senators have made such a request, he should simply be recognised and implemented. There was such a case in the previous term of office, you applied for secrecy and its justification was already presented after the creation of these conditions for secrecy. In the article quoted by Senator Martynowski, there is nothing about when such a request is made.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me quote these articles in extenso. Art. 36 in point 2, the Senate, at the request of the Marshal of the Senate or at least 10 senators, may establish the secrecy of the deliberations if the good of the state so requires. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. And lips. 3. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3: The Senate shall decide on the confidentiality of the deliberations without the participation of the public and representatives of the press, radio and television, after hearing the reasons for the request without debate. Exactly. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Relax, Mr. Senator. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: We read in paragraph 48 (2): "The formal application is for a "point 2" to be passed on the confidentiality of the meeting. So that you have clearly stated in 2 articles what the Rules of Procedure are about the adoption of confidentiality proceedings. Therefore, if you wish to justify the request whether Mr Martynowski, before the vote You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u40	But, Mr. Marshal, we don't understand each other. To justify this conclusion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because I do not prejudice that this proposal will pass, it is not that unconditionally the High House is to comply with this proposal, it will decide the vote. But listening to this justification should already be done in a confidential voting procedure. And I don't agree with your interpretation of the Marshal. Because then what would be the point of exposing this application in a separate article of the Rules of Procedure, so that it can be thrown into one bag with other, ordinary formal applications, which are simply made individually by individual senators? It wouldn't make any sense. The inclusion of this proposal in a separate editorial unit indicates its special character. If there is controversy, however, I would ask, at least your marshal, to consult the Senate legislators and present such a quick opinion on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u41	Reason... You write in your proposal: we will give you a justification before we decide on the confidentiality of the proceedings. I was just... Well, then why don't you explain it? Well, then why don't you explain it? Mr. Marshal, I don't think we understand each other anymore. The reasons for the request... read the lips. 2 and 3 read by your Marshal of the article. The Senate shall decide on the confidentiality of the deliberations without the participation of the public and representatives of the press, radio and television, after hearing the reasons for the request without debate. So... and then? Well, there's no further. This is... Reason... That's how the art ends. 36. Yes... Wait a minute, I'll take the rules. No, but... But what is it anyway? Where are we? I don't get it. Do you have something secret to tell us, Senator Pop? Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u42	No, no, Mr. Marshal, we have just heard that the request for a confidential sitting is not a formal request, and the request for a confidential sitting is, however, a formal request. But the motion is special. But it's... Formal applications shall include requests for the adoption of the confidentiality of the meeting. The formal application shall contain a request and a concise justification. The adoption or rejection of a formal application shall be decided by the Senate after hearing the applicant and possibly one opponent of the application. So that we listened to your voice. I understand we're not going to get a brief explanation. Please listen to my voice as the opposite voice and let us proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, these formal applications are a whole lot. You can still apply... There's already been a request for your recess. You may also request that the sitting be adjourned, that the list of speakers be closed, that the committee be referred, that the vote be without discussion, etc., etc. What we are all waiting for is to take stock of this debate in the Senate at the joint committee meeting. We want to know the positions of the committee, listen to the arguments for or against, and we have nothing to be ashamed of. Well, what's the secret? There's nothing to keep secret... Mr. Marshal, it's still... ...because the legislative process is public. So far, there has been no reason, during the presentation of these opinions, for discussion during the committee's work, which would indicate the need for secrecy. I understand that the Home Office, the Secret Service, is somehow involved in the process of conducting these elections, but there is no indication that there is a need for secret procedure. Over the electoral ordination, over the change of the electoral ordination? I am against this conclusion, and I expect that after many hours of obstruction and chaos we will finally proceed to work in the Senate on this scandalous act in my view.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u43	Mr. Senator Piek, we are not discussing this. Your formal conclusion has been reached. The question is whether you want to justify it. Because I'll remind you that according to the article. The President of the Senate shall interpret the Senate's Rules of Procedure and decide how the Senate's Rules of Procedure are to be applied in the course of its deliberations. If you wish to justify this request and this request will pass, then we will ask for secrecy, without the participation of the public and representatives of the press, radio and television. Okay, Mr. Marshal... If you do not wish to justify this proposal, but submit it as a formal request, then I will vote on it with the votes against. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u44	Good. Mr. Marshal, the problem is that I cannot justify this conclusion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I can do it under conditions... [[Applause]] Bravo! I can't justify it in this procedure mode. I can only do this when the conditions for classified procedure are available. And I remind you of this. If there is also a custom in the Senate, not only the rules that need to be interpreted from time to time In the last term of office, in exactly the same situation when the state as the largest opposition club submitted exactly the same proposal, it was only after preparing the plenary room for the secret procedure that the proposal was necessary to implement it. Perhaps I, on the basis of this conclusion, will give arguments which cannot be made in open mode. That's what it's all about. Therefore, Mr Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, I ask you to announce a break, to convene the Senior Convention and to present the opinion of the Head of the Legislative Office. However, this should help with interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u45	The last vote, the senator's voice, Mr. Marshal Kaminski. If you maintain your proposal, the vote will be held. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A moment ago, all Poles who are listening to our House's proceedings learned from a very important Senator of the government coalition, former Vice-Marshal of the Senate, Senator Pęk, that in the context of the law on the election of the President of the Republic under the conditions of Cortipinus, the camp of power has knowledge which Poles cannot have... Well, unfortunately... I ask you, Mr. Mark Pak, what knowledge do you hide from the Poles in the matter of coronavirus? Answer that, not involve the Senate in your dirty games.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u47	Then I will answer, Mr. Marshal, because I have been mentioned by my name. That is why I do not have such information, which is why I would like to seek such information, but in a responsible way, i.e. in the procedure which provides for the rules of procedure. And once again, I stress this: your fellow senator, the current member of the Senate, did exactly the same in the previous term. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I'm in response. First of all, Mr... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u48	Ad vocem, one minute and I'm closing this discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u49	Mr. Senator, you've just explained perfectly why we can't vote on your proposal because you just said it yourself, and it's in the protocol that you don't have any classified information, so you've admitted that you're going to go to the protocol, that you can justify your request in secret. You just said that there's no secret information in your proposal's justification, because you don't have it. So I ask you, in the name of responsibility for Poland and in the name of your listening to the voters of the PiS who think you know something you can't say... Mr. Marshal, you're about to boil. ...to either justify your request or let us work... You're gonna boil, Mr. Marshal, and you're gonna get hurt by that emotion. Don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say... That's what you said.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u50	Gentlemen, I call you to order. You said there was no secret message. Is the senator holding up a formal motion for secrecy?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u51	I also maintain my request for a break and a hearing...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u52	Answer my question. I'm not asking you what other conclusions you're holding, I'm asking if you're holding up a motion for secrecy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u53	Sustained.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u54	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but there's been some mistake because I'm the one who filed this motion... Exactly. ...with 10 senators, and now there's some weird discussion. Mr. Kapeliński's here. Maybe he can explain how we should proceed here. And maybe this case will be settled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u55	I'm ordering a vote on a motion for secrecy... Why don't you explain to the director... Why don't you, Mr. Marshal, let the patron speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] The principal will give you such an interpretation of the law that... I'll remind you one last time... Mr. Director will give you such an interpretation... Let me remind you that the final interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the way in which the rules are applied during the proceedings is decided by the Senate Marshal. I'm finishing the discussion. I'm calling a vote. Who is in favour of Senator Martynowski's request for secrecy? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Gentlemen of Computer Science, please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 41 votes 51 against. [[Voting No 4]] The motion was rejected. There's another one! I will refrain, ladies and gentlemen, from commenting, because the seriousness of the function of the Senate marshal requires this. I will now ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Legislative Committee, Senator Marek Pęk, to present a proposal for a minority of committees... Mr. Marshal, but I've applied for a formal application. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, y'all can complain. I'm filing a formal application in accordance with the rules of procedure. You did exactly the same thing... I understand you're looking for some kind of obstruction. But tell me what your formal conclusion is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u56	Formal request for a 15-minute break and convening the Senior Convention. I'd really ask for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u57	I object. I believe that further requests for a break, further formal applications, are an attempt by the Law and Justice to obstruct Parliament. I call on the majority of the Senate not to allow such obstruction, and I formally request that they proceed to further proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u58	We are voting on Mr Martynowski's formal motion for a 15-minute break. Who's in favour? And the convening of the Senior Convention. And the convening of the Senior Convention. Who's in favour of Mr. Martynowski's request? Who's against it? And the basics... I did, Mr. Senator. Let me remind you that the Senior Convention is calling a marshal. Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 41 votes 51 against. [[Voting No 5]] Motion denied. Again, I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I proceed with the proposal of minorities, the motion to adopt a law without amendments, I too, Senator Pociej, will refer to the classics. Well, you quoted the classics, but quoting the classics can be risky, as can assigning certain intentions to the opposition senators. I remember that quote from your patron Giertych... Why do we need the Civic Platform? Complete clumsy, full-blown, useless. [[Applause]] So with that classic quote It's just that sometimes you can make a mistake. The same is true of the fact that the State is assigning us some special intentions for obstruction. You did exactly the same thing for four years in your previous term. However, at that time there was a better parliamentary custom used by the then marshal Stanisław Karczewski ..who was also attributed the worst intentions. 'Cause, for example, requests for the Convention of Seniors to be convened, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by legislators were implemented. I remember a few times when you presented here, as if hot, interpretations of the rules. And now there is a directive on the final interpretation of the rules by the Marshal, which excludes the existence of the rules and good customs in the Senate. After all, our previous request to change the mode of sitting to a normal, stationary mode was dictated by the fact that at this moment we are actually sitting in an out-of-the-box, unknown regulation, introduced by some arbitrary decision of the Marshal, also eliminating, as it were, the possibility to participate in the sittings of many senators, committee members. Because committee meetings do not take place remotely. So we are dealing with a hybrid that undermines the fundamental principles of Polish parliamentarianism, which you are constantly fighting for here, in the Senate, day after day. This is case one. Now I'm going back to the point of the proposal itself. The elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, which according to the electoral calendar, according to the relevant regulations, should take place in accordance with the Constitution on 10 May, are necessary to carry out. We, as Senators of Law and Justice, stand in the position that no one is obliged to hold these elections. He didn't fire us, and that right now, in this state of law, it's an unconditional obligation. All legal interpretations, which are currently cited by opponents of such a position, are political and very instrumental. This is particularly true of a position which says that a state of emergency or a state of natural disaster should be introduced, regardless of whether or not there are grounds for such a state, and we do not believe that there is any In fact, in order not to hold elections in constitutional terms, it is not for political reasons, not for legal, constitutional reasons. And this basic reason for such a decision, not another one, are already quoted as a 2% proverb. Marshal Kidawa. If we are dealing with a state of disaster in Poland, this is, as I said yesterday at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, a defeat of the opposition. You cannot accept this under democratic conditions. You cannot accept the fact that your political opponent, President-in-Office Andrzej Duda, is now a strong favorite in the presidential election. The pandemic, of course, is an extraordinary but objective state. This is a state which has reached us, which none of us, politicians ruling in Poland, created, contributed to it. And he didn't shut down the constitutional order in our country. It is not enough that the law passed by the states during the period when you were in power in Poland was applied, that in the event of an outbreak there would be no emergency state, no special state resulting from the Constitution, and that there would be no need to restrict civil rights and freedoms, but to have a specific instrument to combat the pandemic. And this instrument, this bill, it works. It works successfully, because all statistics, all parameters show that the state of epidemic threat in Poland against the background of many European countries, non-European, is good. It wasn't just the so-called. flattening the infection curve, the disease, but also the number of these diseases, the number of serious cases, the number of deaths are very low if we compare it to the global, international situation. It can therefore be said that this epidemiological situation is under the control of the Polish State. The Polish State stands at the level of the task and therefore cannot, I would say, exclude further elements of the constitutional action of this country. That is why elections must be held in constitutional mode and in such a way that we create, consistently implementing also the principles of the fight against the pandemic, the best conditions for voting. This mode, which poses the least risk, is correspondence mode. This correspondence vote was also presented in an extremely demolished way at the meetings of the Joint Committee. Statistics were shown to prove that the electoral act itself is an act of particular medical risk. That is not the case, with this view we fundamentally disagree. We believe that with the use of coravirus procedures, as well as the procedures provided for in the Election Act, we can make choices in a responsible manner, with no greater risk than that, which is associated with all of us in carrying out many daily activities such as going to a store, such as going to an office, such as going to a pharmacy, like going to a post office, like taking part in the regular sittings of the Senate committees, such as sitting here today by dozens of senators in the plenary room. I dare say that this current proceding in such and not other conditions in the Senate is more epidemiologically risky than voting in correspondence. So the perception of the electoral process itself needs to be demitologized, which does not, of course, change the fact that these elections are not easy to prepare. The deadlines are short, the deadlines are rigid There's not much room to maneuver around here. But I would also like to say to you, the majority of the Senate, explicitly, that the state, despite this whispering of reality, has been discussing how the Senate has been engaged for almost 30 days in particularly profound discussions about this law, the analysis of this law, in fact you are using parliamentary obstruction. - within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. If yesterday there's a motion to reject the bill in its entirety... After all, we've all known for 30 days that such a conclusion will be made. Creating appearances of an in-depth debate for 30 days, and really bringing to one adjourned meeting of the Senate committee, is only intended to extend to the maximum of this legislative process. The finale will be that the Sejm will probably have to face a motion to reject the bill the day after tomorrow and the bill will go to the president's desk and the election will take place in a few days. The only consolation in this situation is that if the law is signed by the President, the election institutions can benefit from the provision which gives the Marshal of the Sejm the right to postpone the election term On 17 May or 23 May. As we hear already from representatives of the Polish government, it can be really very difficult or impossible to conduct elections on 10 May under these conditions. The situation would be different if the law, for example. It's been in force for three weeks. Probably another discussion would then also be about the proposal for implementing regulations, because it is difficult to propose draft implementing regulations if the law is not yet in force. After all, the government has no legal basis for showing these regulations and does not know what the shape of this law will ultimately be, in what form it will come out of the Senate. You yourself said yesterday that, despite the motion to reject the law, you would not prejudice that you would not make any amendments to it in plenary. So here too, Mr. Senator Pociej, there are such witchcrafts, procedural, regulation, obstructive. We are not the only ones here who apply the Senate Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there were many arguments at the committee meeting which questioned the integrity of the organisation of elections, the legal basis. Most often, there was an argument that preparations for correspondence elections took place without a legal basis. On what principles and on what basis does the Polish State act if the law does not apply? It was also repeatedly demented, explained that art. The 11 specialist for the fight against the coronavirus gives some legal instruments to prepare elections in correspondence mode. Similarly, as regards the Polish Post, it is also acting on the basis of the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers of 16 April 2020, which concerns the undertaking by the operator of the necessary steps to prepare and conduct the general elections for the office of President. The question was who was responsible for printing the electoral packages. Here we also explained that the Polish Securities Printing Works is responsible for the printing of voting cards and that in the case of previous elections there was also such a situation that the cards were printed by subcontractors in various printing houses throughout the country, and the current regulations do not exclude the use by the Polish Securities Printing Works of services of subcontractors who are preparing the printing of electoral packages under the appropriate security regime. So there is no illegal action or action that would be non-standard here either. Similarly, voting cards are printed on the basis of the regulation I have referred to. Similarly, the question of taking part in elections abroad. Here, too, there were arguments that electoral committees were set up in all 162 circuits abroad. I could put forward these arguments for a long time, maybe there will be some more questions, then I will try to address them. But to conclude, I would like to say that there is a rule in law that we should not have certain activities or certain states that the law is trying to regulate, assign certain circumstances or special features. I have the impression that, for several weeks in the Senate, professors' opinions have also created around this state, which we are dealing with, some particular character. Suddenly, everything becomes a problem now. Everything becomes a doubt. Everything's getting unclear. Everything becomes special. Everything is becoming some kind of trap that the rulers want to bring society into. He assigns himself to the rulers of some of the worst, psychic, even to say criminal intentions. That's not the intention. We are a responsible government and, as we are fighting a pandemic in a responsible way, we are also trying to organise Presidential elections under the conditions of this pandemic. These elections are absolutely necessary. This is the most important election, because this is the election of the head of state. Here the continuity of the Polish state, the continuity of power is at stake. Here there is a question of security, both internal and international, of the Polish state. The President of the Republic of Poland is the superior of the Supreme Armed Forces, but also, which is particularly important in pandemic conditions, this institutional continuity of the Polish state is important because the signature of the President acting in accordance with the law is necessary in order to adopt a law in the Polish political system. And these laws of these anti-crisis shields and also other laws, ordinary, because the state is alive, the state is definitely going to be operating in the near future. So that these really are very serious legal problems. What happens if, in some strange, unprecedented way so far, questionable or even unconstitutional, we postpone the elections, we don't know what time it is? 'Cause it's really indeterminate. Perhaps the situation will change, perhaps the pandemic situation will take a new form. After all, no one has ever been able to authentically and unambiguously say what this pandemic is going to look like. We have some kind of time clipping when we can responsibly say that the disease has just decreased, that the epidemiological condition is under control. And since that is the case, and since the Polish government has decided to loosen up certain epidemiological rigors in recent days, since we are freezing the economy, since we are opening shopping malls, since we are considering opening kindergartens, nursery... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mr. Senator, time is running out. I'm just summing up. I'm giving you two more minutes so you can... I'm on my way to the end. This is actually the last thread I want to finish. Since the Polish state freezes the economy, since the Polish state shows that there are rational, including medical reasons for returning to normal life, we should all the more pursue these basic, important presidential elections. Since there are complementary elections in our country and they can be carried out, it is all the more impossible to waive this choice, which is the most important in the Polish country. I believe that the procedure of the contested law allows these elections to be held in a responsible manner, in accordance with the Polish constitution, in accordance with Polish law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u60	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik for questions and the senators in room 182 for Senator Victor Durlak. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions using the application chat rooms. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the Senate meeting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. Will there be a government representative? If there's a government representative. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first question is for the Senator of the majority, Senator Alexander Pociej. Mr. Senator, in that long report you presented, I understand, you put the constitution away at first... For this reason, it is because of the constitution that the presidential elections are to take place in May. And my question concerns one of the opinions you presented, namely the opinion of the State Election Commission. You thought it was a negative opinion. I would like to quote: The State Election Commission is not entitled to assess the regulations introduced by the legislator, but is required by law to implement them. The issues related to determining how elections are conducted are political decisions and the PKW cannot express itself in this way because of the nature of its statutory tasks. Political decisions in this area fall within the exclusive competence of the legislator. So I have a question: why did you say it was a negative opinion? And the second question to the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Marek Pęk. I'm talking about this alleged obstruction. Isn't it so, Mr. Senator, that the bill of correspondence voting was supposed to be processed at the tenth Senate meeting today and tomorrow, on the twenty-nineth and thirty days since the bill was sent to the Senate? So the question of when the committees had finished their work didn't matter. We had all our opinions almost two weeks ago. We were allowed to proceed with the procession. There was a joint committee meeting a week ago. But the Senate meeting was still scheduled on the twenty-nineth and thirtyth days since the Senate bill. Isn't that an obstruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u62	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. We will block questions after 3 and then you will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the questions are addressed to the representative of the majority, Senator Pociej. The first question relates to your post office, some group of postmen, a trade union. In the meantime, I have a letter addressed to the hands of Marshal Grodzki from the Management Board of Polish Post signed by the acting President of the Management Board. I will not quote the whole, but I will quote the most important part: I assure you that the Polish Post office, as the designated postal operator, the largest and key infrastructure company in the country, will carry out its duties with the utmost care. I do not see any negative opinion here, on the contrary: it is an indication of the role that Poczta Polska has in our system, but also consent to carrying out its duties. And then there's the second line. This also occurred at the committee meeting, but also in part in your summary speech of this meeting. Namely, on your part, there are allegations that organisational action has already been taken in relation to correspondence elections. Explain to me how it is: if organisational action is being taken, it is wrong, but if the draft regulations you are applying for are to be presented, would it be okay? Yes? Because that's how I understand it. Oh, no, no. So the basics are the same, but 2 different actions and 2 different assessments. And most importantly. In the current state of law... Mr. Senator, it's been two minutes. Can I finish my sentence? There you go... Most important: in the current legal state, correspondence elections already exist. They've been introduced. The subject range has been greatly extended by laws commonly called Shield 1.0 and Shield 2.0. Already now, any citizen who is over 60 can participate, if he wants, in correspondence elections, and those who are in quarantine should only participate in such elections. Then why are those who are preparing for these elections on the basis of the current laws being accused of some misguided intention?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u65	Thank you very much. I'm gonna have to ask Senator Swede to remind me of the first question, because at the moment that... PKW... Please? PKW, PKW's opinion that it wasn't negative... No, that was the second... Well, that's good. In my opinion, that was the second question. But as far as the State Election Commission is concerned, I've already said it. And if this has not been caught by your senator, I will repeat: I said that in the media space the chairman of the State Election Commission said that these elections are practically impossible. And he also talked about the threat. And he also said the same thing during the committee meeting. I was reporting his words, not much earlier writing that came to us. And once again, Mr President made a clear statement during these committee meetings, also answering the committee's questions repeatedly, and said that this was impossible. As for the question of why it took so long, because opinions were earlier... Mr. Senator, no. The first opinions were about... The deadline was 10 days ago, but they flowed even longer, the last one we got was probably a day or two before the first committee meeting. However, I would also like to remind you that during this committee meeting there was a proposal, because half of the rules The half, I don't remember exactly, I think 9 out of 21 are the rules that, let's say, are empty, in the sense that they refer to these future and not certain implementing acts... As requested by Marshal Borusewicz, we have asked for possible drafts of these acts and have therefore interrupted our deliberations. In reply to the earlier thesis that, in the case of a parliamentary project, there is no obligation to post, to present together with such a draft law draft implementing acts, I would like to draw attention to... First of all, it could have been proceded in the Seym in fast mode and only this kind of... Well, it could be a government project. The Constitutionalists had huge pretensions and criticized the way the Sejm conducted these proceedings. It was calmly possible to proceed just as a government project, not as a parliamentary project. Then he could be proceded in the mode in which he was proceded. And so there is the charge that the parliamentary project had no right to be dealt with in this way in the Sejm. Moreover, draft implementing acts could then be easily attached. I would also like to point out that somehow in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and yet the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes from the majority, the Law and Justice There was no problem with that and the Ministry sent us such a project. The paradox is that this is the only ministry that has passed to us draft implementing acts, and these implementing acts are not going to do anything, unfortunately, because practically this law, which is being prosecuted in such external circumstances... Externally, here I blame no one. No one is going to make elections abroad and make it easier for our voters, Polonia, to take part in these elections because there are very different restrictions in different countries at the moment. Very, very. And that was also a very strong argument for not making choices in this mode. Now answer Senator Czerwinski's questions. I didn't get to that letter from the board, it was at the very end... I left it to myself, but I didn't figure it out because it took me too long to discuss the health risks of our society. But what I'd like to say is that I can write two magazines right away... I can tell you two letters to the senator. Well, I think that both the letter of duty 'Cause that's how it's signed here. President of the Management Board of Polish Post, as a letter from the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data... These are the only two writings that are not extremely critical of this project. But they don't actually bring anything, because the fact that Mr. President thinks he can do it... Well, for me, it's much more important what the employees say that it's impossible to carry out, because they're going to be risking their health, not Mr. Chairman's. To the question of the fact that the correspondence elections were in such a way earlier, I will answer: yes, it was mentioned, Mr Senator, at the committee meeting several times. Only the problem is that in the current formula these correspondence elections were intended for people with disabilities. That's one thing. This formula and these changes mean that it is not known at all whether in practice disabled people will be able to take part in these elections, and this has been repeatedly raised by experts. Secondly, and this is much more important when it comes to this traditional way of voting for people with disabilities or Even in this view People over the age of 65, against whom no one protested... At that time, since this involved a much smaller number of people, it was a requirement to provide cards with their own hands and receipts. And here the biggest problem with the transparency of these elections is that no one will know if this electoral package has reached or not reached the addressee. That's all I can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u66	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, there's a very far-reaching misunderstanding going on here. Maybe somebody's listening to us. The legal status of Coronavirus before the pandemic is described in the text of the Code, which is made available, for example. on the PKW website. However, this is not the current legal situation. The current state of law, which was introduced by two laws, I would call it, circular... But are you going to ask another question? Yeah, I'm just explaining what's going on. Good. This current legal situation already forces the Polish Post Office, but also other entities, organizational activities. This is because the subject range has increased and not only the disabled have already increased, the number of participants is depending on the election of 15.50 000 people. But everyone over the age of 60 and everyone in quarantine, in isolation in general, have the right to participate in the elections by mail. It could be a government of a few million people. How can you criticize those entities that are exercising their current legal status for being involved in the implementation of the law? I'm not talking about what's in this bill, because this is the third in turn... He commands all on the one hand, and on the other hand he gives the right to vote in correspondence. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Why are you attacking, from the government, from the Polish Post office to the institutions, bodies, companies that carry out the current legal status? Thank you, Mr... And the state of law is the simplest... Thank you, Senator. There's an online system of legal files on the seym website.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u67	Thank you. I think the senator has already understood the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u68	Mr. Senator, I'm not going to repeat what I've already said for the second time. I just want to correct one thing: you're not attacking, I'm the only one who quoted the position of all legal experts regarding the risks that this law brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u69	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask me a question... Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, there was a question to me that I didn't answer. Oh, and... There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u70	Thank you very much. I have the impression that Senator Pociej answered the question that was addressed to me, but perhaps it was... Mr. Senator, I may have gone too far... ...directed to you, too. I thought that... that's right, there you go. I'll only answer one sentence. It was about these behaviors... There you go, Mr. Senator. ...obstructive in the Senate. Well, they're obvious to me. Indeed, Mr. Senator Swed, I have the impression that this deadline for final proceedings over the bill has been decided for 30 days. That is, well, this was the scenario to proceed in plenary on the last constitutionally possible day. I regret the fact that the committee's meeting was called relatively late, because there was nothing that prevented us from doing so. - No matter how opinions go down... Because the Senate could already debate the bill at committee meetings. And I'm standing at my post. I say this with all due respect to all the opinions that go down to the Senate. That these opinions are of a subsidiary nature and the utmost importance is the will and opinion of the senators who have a mandate to create the law. It's not the authors of the opinion that make the Senate laws, it's the senators. In addition, the proceedings were really very secondary in nature. Since mixing tea itself, it doesn't get any sweeter, as Stefan Kisielewski used to say. And here we've been dealing with something like this. Once again, I stress: we could have had, for example, during these 30 days. of 10 or 15 committee meetings Then maybe it would be creative, and credible. And so this whole legislative process in the Senate is destructive and apparent.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u72	Thank you very much. I have a question for both the rapporteurs, Senator Pociej, as well as Senator Mark Pak. Was there such a question at the committee meeting: what will happen if this law is rejected by the Senate and then the Sejm will not be able to reject the Senate's veto by an absolute majority? Will it be possible then e.g. traditional voting? I'm asking because the absence of this bill will make it impossible to vote in correspondence mode. Will it then be possible to vote in a traditional manner? I would like to draw attention to the fact that the State Election Commission will then not have enough time to organise such elections, and that your Marshal of the Sejm will not be able to postpone elections, because it is this law that talks about the possibility of rescinding elections, and the absence of this law will prevent it. Or will there simply be no presidential election at all, so the president will not be at all, and then the President's role can be taken over by the Marshal of the Sejm? Have all these issues been considered? And what will simply result from the absence of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I'm asking you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask you something, too, in the context of those earlier questions. The first question actually was to Senator Pociej, and the second to the Senator of the minority rapporteur, to Senator Mark Pęk. As far as the State Election Commission is concerned, And it just so happens that I am also a member of the Senate Legislative Commission, which is the opinion of the PKW, which I quoted, was from April 24th and that was one of the last opinions that came to us. On 28 April, which was a week ago, we were working on the joint committees, and in fact we were already able to, if only the Senate meeting would have been faster, to proceed on this bill. And the chairman of the State Election Commission himself did not so much address the correspondence choices as he addressed the appeal. And this appeal was addressed rather than to the Senators of Law and Justice, and more to the Senators of the majority to finally accept this act. Because the State Election Commission, in order to act, must be based on a legal basis, and this destruction, which is in the Senate, causes that legal basis to be missing. But the chairman of the State Election Commission also spoke about the supplementary elections... Mr. Senator, ask me a question. Yeah, I'll ask you a question. He was talking about the follow-up election, the referendums... They were done exactly. 26 last Sunday. Here's a question for Senator Pociej. Were there any protests about the fact that these elections are life threatening? Was this at a committee meeting subject to some kind of criticism?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u75	Thank you. And there you go, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski wanted to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions, one related to what was said at the committee meeting and was also in several expert reports. The main resistance from you against these elections on 10 May until recently was that they endanger life and health. There was such an attempt to scare the voters, our citizens with such a risk. But our citizens, who have common sense, are e.g. Forced by quotes, of course. To stand in queues for shops and then shop, to hand-pick papers that are part of the packaging of many food products. Explain to me how it is, which is more dangerous for human life and health: touching the paper packaging that is given by the salesperson, or touching the electoral card with similar paper made? Are they both deadly or just one of them? Because such an impression from reading some of the experts could be said that... didn't that time for fearing voters pass by? You guys have already switched to another poetry. And the second question, much more important to me. That's what I asked at the committee meeting. What will happen if the action against this law succeeds, i.e. The Senate will pass this motion, and the Sejm will not reject the Senate's veto? What's gonna happen then? Tell me, then, what about the President's office, how to conduct the elections and when? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u77	Thank you very much. There you go, who was the first of the senators? I think it's just for Senator Pociej... No, they were for the senator, but maybe there was more for Senator Pociej... Then maybe Senator Knock will answer first. Good. Now, right? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u78	Well, Mr. Senator Dobkowski, if it happens that the motion to reject the bill voted out in the Senate will not be rejected by the absolute majority in the Sejm, then there will be no law on the basis of the legal status that is currently in force. It will also be possible to conduct ordinary elections on 10 May. In my opinion, there is no other alternative in the current legal state. Of course, there are the unknowns themselves, the doubts themselves, and the constitutional, epidemiological, etc. threats themselves, etc. Elections then will be a major challenge, both political and legal. At this point, I'm not able to answer the question of what's going to happen. This question was not answered by the senacy experts who spoke at the committee meeting. There were some attempts to interpret some competences, such as the Marshal of the Sejm, from the Constitution, but it is very questionable, because in fact this caliber of competence must be written directly in the Constitution, so that it can be exercised reliably. There is therefore a whole spectrum of constitutional and legal issues concerning what is left of the seat of the President of the Republic. That's the case. Once again, I've said it many times. It is absolutely fundamental for the state system, for the security of the Polish state. So I'm gonna suspend the answer to this question and just say that there's doubts, confusion and legal chaos about what's gonna happen. I'm missing out on the political issues here, and they're huge. It's one big unknown.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u80	Before I answer Senator Dobkowski's question, I would like to point out that a second ago, Senator Czerwiński said that the pandemic was weakening... I didn't say that. I'm sorry, I just realized that right now... Oh, come on. No, Mr. Senator... I realized that these conditions were relaxed and actually why we oppose in any way. And just a second ago, in answer to Senator Dobkowski's question, Senator Pęk said that if this bill was not passed now, it would be a threat to the pandemic because we would normally have to go to the elections. Unfortunately, according to my knowledge, the situation is much more complicated and this is what Prof. Piotrowski spoke about at our committee meeting. Well, he, drawing up different scenarios, having great reservations about this solution, which I am about to say, said that the purest thing from the point of view of constitutional order was and is the introduction of a state of natural disaster, because by the fact that this mechanism was already included, we know exactly what would happen and when. As for Senator Czerwiński's question, I would say, by referring to the answer to Senator Dobkowski's question, that I thought it was necessary to introduce this state of natural disaster a month ago, when everything was going towards the so-called hill, not the flattening. In that case, we wouldn't have any problem getting out of that constitutional pat we're about to find ourselves in. It was, according to all statements, the most legal form of exit from this situation. I'm not sure... Earlier, Senator Pop-Pop talked about how there's a flattening, that they're all being withdrawn... soothed is how we're living right now. I would like to say that if you look from the perspective that, so to speak, historically, you will see that after the adoption of this law, after the sixth one, there were tightenings and only a few days ago we withdrew from these exacerbations. Therefore, to say that now is only and only better... Well, for the last month, we've been operating under such conditions that first these tightening rigors were introduced by the government. I'll answer Senator Swede. Yes, as far as the protests are concerned, we have reached, I have not been able to say about it, the comments of the Polish Cities Association and the metropolitan union, several or several dozen letters from various levels of local government, is the position of 323 employees of Polish universities' law departments on correspondence choices, in which they claim that these elections absolutely should not be conducted. I would also like to quote a letter of 1 000 800 people from almost 50 countries asking for immediate cessation of work and rejection of this initiative, because citizens say that they will not be able to take part in these elections where they are now abroad. So that there were several protests of this kind that came to the committee. There were also very negative opinions of NGOs, such as: The Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u81	Thank you very much. Please... May I? I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but this needs to be explained so that this is not a misconception in Poland. Please. So you want to ask, Mr. Senator? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u82	Yes, sir. Oh, that's easy, no translation. Well, I've already gotten information from the senator, the representative of the majority, Mr. Alexander Pociej, about which option we're in favour, which means you're in favour. For declaring the state of the natural disaster. Yeah, but this is your current projection now. Tell me: how will this be implemented in practice? That's what I was asking. By August 6th, it could be... I mean, the President's term of office normally ends on August 6. If a natural disaster is applied... Let's count. 30 days plus 90 days extension of the term of office, i.e. 120 days of September 4th. Well, that'll have to be an election. But this is how the Code speaks about elections: they are managed no earlier than 7 months and no later than 6 months before the end of their term of office. This means that the elections for a possible term of office, delayed, Mr President, completed later, according to this interpretation, would have to be decided between February and March. Of course, you can change the electoral code, you'll say. Beautiful, but not during an emergency, in the event of a natural disaster. What are you gonna do about it? This is total chaos. I hope you're designing something for the future. As I say, out of this chaos We'll talk about it at the next resolution. I don't think there's a way out. And that's what you're saying: let's not make an election right now, let's not make an election on May 17th, let's not make an election on May 23rd. And then what? And then worry about it. ... Mr. Senator, maybe it'll be a voice in the discussion, because it's... No, the other way around. I would just like to answer the question now: what about this limitation of 6 and 7 months... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...what to announce the election before the end of the term of office? Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u83	There you go, Mr. Senator. Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u84	Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, as you asked that question... ...is a minute to ask. There was no such conversation at the committee meeting. And my previous answers were only about a few expert statements, not what kind of projection I have, or anyone else, when it comes to politicians. So that there was no way to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u86	Thank you very much, Marshal. Very often she was invoked by Senator Pociej. And to him, that's my question. The question of the security of the elections. I'd like to say that basically all the expertise... Well, as far as constitutionalists' expertise is concerned, perhaps only Professor Czapliński was not too strongly based on the issue of health safety, but adopted a different methodology, while other constitutionalists, local authorities, professional authorities, different levels were basically based on this factor, which is health safety. I would like to remind you at this point that at the very beginning of the pandemic, perhaps in the first weeks there was information announced by the Minister... Remember, there's a minute on the question. So I would very much like to ask you a question. ... Minister Szumowski, that he will assess whether the situation is safe for the presidential election. And no one opposed the fact that he had that right. And on April 17, the Minister of Health announced that the safest choices would be correspondence elections. And at that point, those who did not deny him such a right a month earlier, when he announced such a decision, suddenly realized that this is the evil minister who makes the wrong decisions. And now... I'm almost done. It was April 17th, and on April 6th we received this bill from the Sejm. Mr President, wouldn't that be better? Especially since the Minister has spoken and we have heard various arguments based on an analogy to elections in other countries If we were to speed up the work in the Senate, instead of debating in such a limited time frame in front of the general public? Thank you. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u87	Thank you. There you go, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u88	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have two questions, but before I ask these two questions, if your marshal will allow me, I will once again address Senator Pociej as the previous question. Mr. Senator, you didn't answer that question. I did not ask about the opinions of the local authorities, to a large extent from your political environment, which have been affected by the bill. I asked about 26 referenda and supplementary elections, which the chairman of the State Election Commission spoke about. These referendums and supplementary elections are currently taking place in the country and I asked if there were any protests about it. That's what I asked. I would also like to ask about the implementing acts. What's it like with these implementing acts, the regulations? How is this organised in the legislative process? Do we first adopt the bill, and then the government, after the President's signature, prepares these regulations, or is this the way it was proposed here? The law has not yet been adopted and you already want to have the regulations ready. Mr. Senator, please proceed to the question. Well, that's the question: what's it like with these implementing acts? And I'll ask you a third question, if you don't mind. Many opinions were quoted. I would like to refer here to the experts of the World Health Organization. They spoke recently about correspondence choices and pointed out that they were safe. And I am addressing this question to both Senators. Is it safe to make correspondence choices? Do you see any other possibility? Because we know that the presidential election must be held. If not in correspondence form, in what form?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u89	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Pociej. Senator, I would like you, using your legal knowledge, to answer the question whether, if the elections fail to be held on 10 May, it will be necessary to re-registration candidates, possibly changing candidates of individual political parties, or to remain with the same candidates, even though the elections will be postponed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u91	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u92	Well, I'll answer Senator Ambrozik. If there is a natural disaster, there will be no need. That's the first answer. Senator Gogacz was returning to the case concerning the position of Minister Szumowski. Mr. Senator, there was no mention of this, although I personally am a little afraid of these positions, because very contradictory signals have been sent from the ministry for a few weeks: first we were forbidden to go out into the woods, then we could go out, first we went out without masks and then in masks. It's been said that for two years, I'm sure... That is the position of the Ministry, and this is what the senator, Minister Kraska, spoke about here. This position is that for two years it will certainly not be possible to make such normal choices. At the same time, it is difficult for you to answer questions about what will be happening in two weeks, to what extent the economy will be thawed out. Well, we don't know that anymore, because the curve changes. It's pretty hard for me to rely on what comes out of the Ministry of Health. As for the question of Senator Swede about referenda and supplementary elections, this is a completely different scale. I would like to say that it was very stressed that attendance It was precisely because people were afraid that she was just dramaticly small. We can therefore see how this affects the organisation of any elections at the moment. You asked Senator Swede about the executive acts... No, I'm sorry, but because I'm the only one who answers all the time, I don't follow... Do you want me to say it again? I'd ask... Please repeat your questions. ...the second and third questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u93	Absolutely, Mr. Senator, I've asked about the implementing acts, the regulations. What's it like? - No, you're a lawyer. In the legislative process, is there a bill first, we adopt it and only the government is preparing regulations, or is it already at the stage when the bill is in the Senate, when it is still a project, when we do not know what form it will come up in, we should have the regulations ready? That was the second question. And the third question. I quoted the opinion of the World Health Organization, which indicated that correspondence choices were safe. And I would just like to ask you if you know a better form, because we know that the presidential elections must be held. Do you know of a better, safer form of election?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. To answer your first question about regulations, I would like to show you something. I hope you can see that in the room where you are. Well, I have the Foreign Minister's regulation on the implementation of this law. So... A project. A project. Of course, I'm sorry, the project. I therefore understand that there is no legal obstacle to the regulation being much more important for this law, those which decide on the safety and transparency of these elections, are attached to the draft of this law. I don't know any legal obstacle to this. I understand, in the context of Mr Sasin's writing, which I have already quoted here today, that it is only during the preparation, it is simply not yet present. That's the first answer. And the second question is whether it's safe or not. Mr. Senator, whether it's safer or not, that's a completely different question. We at the committee meeting talked about one thing, whether it's safe at all. The answers I quoted today, epidemiologists and posters... Postmen are scared, and epidemiologists said it wasn't 100%. Safe. And that's all I can answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u96	I'll answer the same question. Well, it's pretty obvious that correspondence choices are safer than ordinary choices, so there's practically no alternative here. If we are to organise elections in constitutional terms, we are doing everything we can to ensure that they are held in correspondence mode. At all, it seems to me that at the meeting of the joint committee At least that's how I felt about it. However, there were much more constitutional and legal charges, some logistical and organisational charges than those of an epidemiological nature. Once again, I would like to stress that Polish society has been living in an epidemic for many weeks and is doing well, gaining some experience, getting used to certain habits. And I think that these elections will be held in such a way that the risks that, of course, exist are minimized to an absolute minimum. I also think that in these elections, in terms of epidemic issues, a much greater challenge than the challenge of the vote-giving process itself and whether or not. by voting we are able to put ourselves in jeopardy, endanger our lives and health, is to organize all these points of work related to counting votes, with this whole thing, colloquially speaking, guarding elections. There is certainly a greater risk here, but also specific legal instruments will be adapted to this. In this case, I also believe that by meticulously fulfilling those requirements which the law puts in place, we are able to reduce this risk to a minimum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u97	Thank you very much. And are you still... And yet, the senator wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u98	Yeah, I'd like to answer very briefly, a little aggregate about all these questions. It was very bad that we practically did not have the opportunity to meet with the government party, because only Minister Kraska took us seriously, he came. Unfortunately, he could not answer the basic question of how it would look, what the regulation would be like in the Ministry, and asked several times, he answered that such a regulation is not yet available and cannot present it. Secondly, from the whole government side only the Minister of Digitization sent some answers and, as I said earlier, the regulation sent the Minister of Health. But right now, we don't have any government in the courtroom. Somehow no one wants to present this bill to us. And it's incomprehensible if we're talking about such a serious project, so important that there's no government to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u99	You're welcome, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like an article. 48 (1) (a) 2 (3) apply for closure of the list of speakers notified. Asking questions... Yeah, but it's called a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u101	Mr. Senator Knuckle?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u102	I'm gonna go with the opposite. I am astonished to see the evolution of Senator Marek Martynowski, who takes over the role of Senator... Martynowski? Yeah, it's a freud mistake. Senator Borowski takes over the role of Marek Martynowski from his previous term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u103	Thank you very much. Thank you very much... Well, then I'll read... All I can tell you is that I'm drawing from the best patterns. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read the list. Senator Rafał Silesian, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Jacek Bogucki, Senator Aleksander Szwed. I'm still checking in... No, no... Mrs. Marshal, I'm talking about a list of speakers who are being recorded right now. There's a record of these people... There hasn't been a vote yet, and until the vote is done, I'm ready to turn myself in. I'd like you to add the senator. Okay... And I'm holding a vote on closure... What about me? I said, Mr. Senator, I'm in charge of the vote. There was time to sign up. I'm ordering a vote on closure... But Senator Gogacz has been added... Because he volunteered much earlier, a minute earlier. I'm signing up for a discussion just in case... The senator will sign up. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, sir. The senator will sign up for the discussion. I'm signing up now, 'cause then it turns out I didn't sign up again... I'm calling a vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of closing the list of speakers, the list of questions, as requested by Senator Marek Borowski? Press the button. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It doesn't appear on the board... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, gentlemen. Calm down. 92 senators voted... I'll give you the results of the vote. 92 senators voted... It's just... I can't give it to you. [[Voting No 6]] The machine's jammed. In fact, the system's jammed. Are you able to add up these votes, or are we going to vote again? Is there a formal motion to repeat the vote? Can the state of computer science count the votes? Because of this, Mrs. Marshal, that the system doesn't work... It doesn't count. ...I'm simply asking you to repeat this vote. But is the announcement of a five-minute break for you to reset... I don't know if in a relationship... Bye-bye, bye-bye. ...with suspension of the system, you don't have to... We can vote right away. Can we vote right away? Are you confirming that? Good. Due to the fact that the system has been suspended with the vote, I ask for a re-vote because there are no results. As soon as it's done. Please, who of the senators is in favour of closing the list of senators who are asking questions, as requested by Senator Marek Borowski? Press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please add it up and give me the results. The system's crashed, you have to count... Ladies and gentlemen, due to the fact that the system has been suspended and we have to count by hand, I propose that the senators, who were included in the discussion, ask questions anyway and that the senators of the rapporteur answer. And please...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I have a formal motion. Mrs. Marshal, how do you want to count the votes manually in the remote system?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u105	From three rooms, from each room... It's just that the system didn't count the votes because it hung up at the vote counting stage... But maybe... ...from three places. It's me, then. Separately...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal, it's me with a formal request for a recess until we get this straightened out. Well, that's the basic thing in the Senate. If the voting system does not work, we should not proceed at a time when the system does not work. Maybe we'll have to file a motion in a minute, and the system won't work any more... Mr. Senator... Let the system be repaired... System... ...and then we'll start going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u107	The system is counting, but the system didn't add up the votes from three places. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You should've taken those votes together. So... Manually. ...the votes have been summed up. This is exactly the same situation as in the Seym. The results of the vote shall be counted in this way in the Seym. I'll give you the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 51 senators voted in favour, 32 senators voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] So I'm announcing that the list of people asking has been closed. I ask you to ask Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator rapporteur, the decision made by the Marshal of the Senate has not been able to develop with regard to the proceedings of the committee, and now I will not be able to develop with the questions I have prepared 18, but I will ask at least 3. And 18, because so many people's attention to the Senate has been affected, which has been considering this bill for a long time. And I'm curious to see if these issues came up at the committee meeting. The first question, then, to the Senator of the rapporteur: were the technical conditions for the delivery of the package to the family divided in the absence of one of the members discussed? According to the questioner, it could exclude him from the voting procedure, i.e. the family member who would not have been provided with this package. Question two: Do I have an interest in the committee's meeting in answering the question of 'yes' or 'no' raised the question of voting by blind people? And the third question: did the committee's meeting consider how the pressure on the floors would be imposed on the concentration of the electoral committees? Because it's gonna be tons of paperwork and it could be dangerous for buildings. Well, I'm done with these three questions because of the time constraints. These are all questions not mine, but the citizens who, in confidence in the Senate, directed them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, first of all, I would ask Senator Pociej to answer the very simple question: is the election card really harmful? . and how She could get infected. s e.g. The packaging of a kilogram of sugar is not harmful, although it can be made from the same material. It could be harmful. And in view of your earlier attempts to discourage voters from voting, actually scaring them, I have one more question. Well, at the committee meeting, the data concerning the viability of the virus, which is responsible for the current pandemic, were quoted by Minister Kraska. And it was clearly stated that on paper It's a regular piece of paper. This is a maximum of 3 hours, although after more than a dozen minutes or half an hour the activity is reduced by half. And then, at the committee meeting, one of the senators, on your part, tried to undermine this data. I would therefore ask that you provide any alternative data. Is it so that some senators question the data presented by recognised medical authorities, among others. quoted probably in the journal "The Lancet" and some of it draws even further further conclusions that these elections can be dangerous attention For the cast vote? I'm not talking about committee members... Mr. Senator, time. ...only about the voters.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u111	Thank you very much. And Senator Jacek Bogucki. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u112	When I listen to this discussion, it seems to me that the opposition state has even invented a cure for Coronavirus, a panacea. This is a state of natural disaster. Well, because you're actually saying that if there's a natural disaster, then after that, the election will be 100%. Safe. So I have a question. In 30 days' time, or 60 days' time, 90 days' time, when the state of the natural disaster will be lifted, according to the majority who has such ideas, and the experts you invited will be safe by now? Because if you don't... It seems to me that model, mathematical research indicates, of course, with a very high degree of uncertainty, that this moment of security may be in a year, maybe in two years, maybe in three years. These are American research, these are research from different countries. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a question. Time's up. I'll be done. Let me ask you a question. How, then, are the elections to be held after the natural disaster has been brought to an end in your opinion or your experts? Did she mention that? Should it not be possible, regardless of the timing of the elections, to change the way they are carried out for correspondence elections? Well, because we're assuming 100 percent safety isn't gonna be that fast. After the deadline... Mr. Senator, time's up. You've been asking a question for two minutes. It's the last one. Just one last question. Do we decide in this law on the date of the election, or do we decide on the manner and form of their execution, regardless of what date it will be?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u113	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u114	I'll start with Senator Bugucki's last question. And that's the last of those questions I can answer. Are we deciding on a date or a way? Everyone was very clear about the fact that if this were to be the case, the election deadline from May 10 to May 17 or May 23, due to the link between the election deadline and the other dates of the entire electoral process, would be to circumvent the Constitution. As for the way in which we decide whether or not to accept correspondence choices, or not to accept them. If you don't accept them, this mode will, as you know, be completely different. Senator Raphael the locksmith's questions. Has the issue of technical delivery of packages to the family in which there are conflicts been discussed? Yes, it's been discussed. Issues such as the absence of certain family members were also discussed, which gives one person the opportunity to vote, for example. 3 packages or 4 packages were said to be theoretically and practically possible and it would be very difficult to capture. As far as conflict issues are concerned, we also talked about the fact that, in fact, in the event of such conflicts, one of the people living together can destroy, take back the possibility of voting by another person. And that's what they said was that these are very serious problems in terms of election results and their transparency. Has the blind been raised? Yes. And in fact, there was no way to say 100%. whether the blind in these elections will be able to vote and how. Well, there'd have to be a regulation on that. When it comes to loading the ceilings, we didn't talk about it during the committee's work. As for Senator Czerwinski's questions, is the election card more harmful than a pack of sugar... There was no mention of that. I'll surprise the senator. We haven't talked about this. As for quarantine, about quarantine... Oh, I'm so sorry, we were talking about the fact that the packages can carry the coritotus as much as possible. As for the senator's statement, Minister Kraska, about the virus and the fact that on paper, three hours... I personally, to be honest, I don't remember his declaration, I didn't catch it, but I heard about it. But it was in public space. That on paper it can last 24 hours or even 36 hours. And in fact, I can only answer again this way: well, I'm not an epidemiologist and it's a shame that there's no government with us who can take responsibility for how long a virus can be present on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u115	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u116	Thank you very much, Marshal. To begin with, I would be amazed that you are leaving the bill on correspondence elections at the last minute and then restricting the possibility of discussion in this area and the possibility of asking questions. Ask the question, Senator. First question to Senator Pociej. Mr. Senator, I didn't ask you to show me the regulation. Which I've actually prepared before, which I've already seen. My question to you, sir. And you're a lawyer, and there was this: what is the legislative practice, is the bill being adopted in the Seym, the Senate, signed by the President, and only then are regulations issued, is the government obliged to issue regulations earlier, although we can lift this obligation with practically one amendment? And there's another question for Senator Mark. Mr Senator, at the meeting of the Joint Committees, the legal basis was discussed and criticised when it comes to preparing for the correspondence elections and, after all, all senators voted on the speciality. What's she like... Can you quote that legal basis again? And as it is with voters who will be able to take part in the election... How is it with voters abroad who are in quarantine and disabled people? Will these voters be able, contrary to the opinions expressed at the committee meeting, to take part in the vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u117	Thank you. And Senator Stanislaw Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u118	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for both Senator Pociej and Senator Mark Bang. Art. 131 of the Constitution mentions 5 situations in which the Marshal of the Sejm may assume the duties of President, but he does not mention the situation of failure to hold elections. Of course, do not talk about the state of the natural disaster, about the introduction of the state of the natural disaster, because this is a hypothesis. I am asking because at the meeting of the 3 joint committees there was a question about this matter to Prof. Piotrowski and Prof. Piotrowski in such a very beautiful, long lecture told us what a common good the constitution is. As I understand it, he noticed, among others. Even if it is not written literally, in such situations, however, your marshal takes over these duties, he said something like that. Gentlemen, please take your stand on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u119	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Comfort first.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u120	Very briefly, Mrs. Marshal. I answer the question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen... I answer Senator Gogach's question. Mr. Senator, you, when you asked that question, answered... There was a conversation... But do you agree... Mr. Senator, whether I agree or not, this is completely different. I can't exactly answer you, because I don't remember that part. It's very possible that I left for a while, it was a long meeting But I have no reason not to believe you that such a discussion was and that you were Prof. Piotrowski said what you said. As far as Senator Alexander Swede's question is concerned, I will answer it this way. The practice of good legislation is that a draft regulation should be included, especially if practically the whole law depends on these regulations, because without this we do not know what we are adopting. I don't know. I'm gonna stress that again. No law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no law, no A very good example is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was able to provide us with a proposal for such a regulation. But, like I said, this is a marginal case. And Senator Bugucky's questions, or... No, I'm sorry, I've already answered that. That's all, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u122	I'm gonna start with this constitutional question. Mr. Professor. Piotrowski made me say a very creative interpretation of the constitution. I fundamentally disagreed with her, I believe that these powers, which Professor Piotrowski spoke about, cannot be removed from the Constitution. This type of competence cannot be presumed They must be expressed directly in the Constitution. I can only say, by the way, that Professor Piotrowski's view was presented at the committee meeting, which aimed at the fact that the law is not only a rule, that the law is also a trust that democracy is the area where compromise is to be sought, that solutions must be sought in difficult situations. Well, I regret to say that this compromise, this agreement, is not about correspondence elections. I would even say that, actually, in all aspects of correspondence voting, it is used by the opposition to say bad will, bad faith. In fact, all the advantages of this law are being called into question. Well, if that's the case, it's very difficult to discuss, because there's actually no room for compromise. After all, the finale of this attitude was found in the vote to reject the bill. As far as this compromise is concerned, at the committee's meeting there was such a position that, in fact, such a responsible legal approach It would require a certain active attitude on the part of the opposition, both in the Seym and in the Senate, to develop a compromise to amend the Constitution of the Republic accordingly. Well, here too, I regret to say that there was no desire to change the constitution. I believe that only a change to the constitution could possibly give some new legal instruments that would allow whether it was a shift in elections or a change in the term of office of the President, etc., etc. Well, none of these ideas found the opposition's support at any stage in the negotiations, whether in the Seym or in the Senate. As for the questions of Senator Alexander Swede, I would like to reassure you that both those in quarantine, people with disabilities and those abroad will be able to take part in this vote. Appropriate procedures are being prepared, and appropriate regulations will certainly still be issued. Well, the whole thing's getting awfully complicated. Once again, I would like to stress that. Because the law is still not passed and the constitutional term of the election is approaching. But I still believe that the bill will be adopted and it will enter into force, and then this time margin allowing for possible adjournment of elections, up to May 23, will allow for the refinement of these procedures. Well, this is undoubtedly a very difficult challenge for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u123	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your senators, who are participating in the meeting remotely, please report to the discussion via the chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and in the case of senators participating in the sitting remotely, please send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Senator Michał Kamiński, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Michał Seweryński, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Agnieszka Gor-Komor, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, Senator Ewa Matecka. Senator Benjamin Godyla and Senator Janusz Błucherz submitted to the minutes of your speech. Next on the list are Senator Filip Libicki, Senator Marek Plura, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Halina Bieda, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Senator Robert Matemov, who also made his speech to the minutes. I think the senator left me out. Senator Marek... No, not yet. I was in fourth place. Senator Marek Borowski is in fourth place, all right. You weren't on that list. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal, I am already traditionally going to make a formal motion. This is a very long list and, as I understand it, everyone who would like to speak will certainly take the floor. Oh, and Senator Czerwinski would like to turn himself in. Senator Czerwiński's registered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u125	Yes, Mrs. Marshal, but there's a problem. In the discussion we have the right to 10 minutes and then to 5 minutes. I'd like to say right now that I'm gonna ask for the next five minutes, because I'm sure I can't fit in 10 minutes. I wanted to... Yeah, yeah. This proposal is therefore premature and should also be formulated so that it can be spoken for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u126	But, Senator, I'm not done yet, and you've already interrupted me. And I was just gonna say that the Senators signed up... I'd like to ask you to close this list, but, of course, with the law of every senator who signed up for an extra five minutes. It's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u127	Thank you very much. Is there... Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u128	I'm against it. You can't close the list at this point, because in the course of the discussion, someone might come to the conclusion that they want to speak, and the senator makes it impossible for him to do so. In a relationship... Let's at least keep a little democracy and let's get on with it. This is an important point, who wants to speak, let him take the floor. Unfortunately, that's why we're here to discuss. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u129	Are any of your senators still voting? Senator Brejza is registered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u130	Yes, I'd like to support Senator Borowski's request... So... We need to review this bill properly. Let's close the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on Senator Mark's motion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Grzegorz Bierecki also volunteered, and is therefore added to the list of speakers. Who among the senators is in favour of Senator Marek Borowski's request to close the list of speakers in the discussion? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 61 senators voted, 44 were in favour, 17 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] The proposal was therefore accepted. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Kaminski. From the point of view. From the point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Today, speaking from a place, which only in an additional way illustrates this unusual situation for Poland, so speaking today in this unusual situation and in an unusual way for me, I would like to say that we have a vote, which, I dare say, is the most important vote in the Polish Senate after 1989. It will be because, as I said in my first speech, which I had the honour to give from the Senate's stand, our role will also be to defend the republic against tyranny. And today's vote, I'm sorry, tomorrow's vote, which before us, in this Senate mission, which many of us have defined as defending the republic against tyranny, will enter this line. For the essence of our freedom, the essence of democracy is the belief that elections, which are a very important factor of this democracy, take place in a free, equal, universal, direct and secret manner. Thanks to the Senate of the Republic of Poland, thanks to the fact that we have done our legislative work, we could in this House, by the head of the State Election Commission, appointed by the current parliamentary majority, hear that the election free envelopes cannot be. And this declaration by the head of the State Election Commission in a normal country would end our discussion. The fact that we're running it indicates that we're in an abnormal situation. The fact that the situation is abnormal also shows that today we are fully aware of the importance of our vote in the Senate, because this is because of the self-stabilization of its own majority the leader of this majority may lose the vote in the Sejm for the first time in 5 years because part of his political camp has rebelled against his plans. And here I have a problem, I have a problem with the fact that today I have to count in the Seym for the votes of Jarosław Gowin, because in many cases what is going on with Jarosław Gowin, and what we're talking about, it's not standing, so to speak, in the same room. Jarosław Gowin took his action to save Law and Justice, Jarosław Gowin took his action to save Jarosław Kaczyński from the consequences of his own policies. I would like to see the ruins of this policy, and I would like to see its full bankruptcy. And it divides me with Jarosław Gowin, who does not want to see the bankruptcy of the Polish right and tries to save her. And what I have in common with Jarosław Gowin is the belief that the bankruptcy of the Polish right should not be equivalent to the bankruptcy of a democratic rule of law. And that's why today, together with the people we share so much with, we defend this democratic rule of law. And today... I'm sorry, tomorrow's Senate vote isn't really going to be a political split vote, because there are people on one side of it with very different worldviews, who have all the confidence that we can recognize Andrzej Duda as our president. And we don't have a problem with that, even though we don't agree with him. As long as he is elected in democratic elections. We will also recognize any other president who will be elected in democratic elections. We, unlike our opponents, have never had a problem with the recognition of the election victory of the opposing camp.We congratulated them, were able to give their power with dignity and respected the democratic choice of Poles that they made five years ago by choosing Andrzej Duda as president. We would like to have the same comfort of disagreeing, but with the legal president, or agreeing, but with the legal president, after the next presidential election in the Republic of Poland. It's what we do and it's what we do. Today, the power camp, which may have been defeated in this area, is trying to scare us. We are threatened by the clueless resignation of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, believing that there will be no majority in the Seym to establish another government. You're trying to scare us by saying we won't find the majority in the Seym if you surrender your power. You're wrong. We're gonna find that most of them, and we're gonna find that very quickly. You don't have to scare us into resigning. We and many Poles expect this from you. Today, Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, we would like to extend our hand again to those who rule Poland today, and tell them: you still have time to remember. At any time, you can still do what you could have done at the very beginning, instead of pushing Poland into a great conflict in an unintelligible way. You often refer to Polish history. And what does this story teach us? The year 1918, 100 years ago, when we regained independence, this great miracle took place also because they were able to talk to each other Dmowski, Piłsudski, Paderewski and Witos. In 1989, at the Round Table, at one table sat those who were put in prison, and those who put them in prison. And they could make a deal. Thanks to this, we can sit here today as free senators in a free country for 30 years. And what happened when Poland touched others, not political this time, but natural misfortune? This misfortune was used as a pretext for eliminating or restricting Polish democracy. This is contrary to Polish tradition. The Polish tradition is consistent with the fact that in the face of danger we are united and not looking for enemies. Instead of having all the advantages, the power camp used this moment of difficult national attempt to build a difficult but necessary national unity, it used the pandemic of Coronavirus to divide the Poles even more, to try to bake political roasts on this sad fire. And today, repeating this appeal that you can still come to your senses, I do so in the belief that the legacy that we will leave to the next generations should be the legacy of what is best in the Polish tradition, that is, that we get along rather than what is the worst in the Polish tradition, that is, that we argue. Because in 1939 the Piotrsudczyk camp also refused to cooperate with socialists and nationalists in the face of a very difficult international situation. It ended in defeat. But then the most outstanding poet of the Polish left, Władysław Broniewski, for me at all the most outstanding Polish poet of the 20th century, wrote about a foreign hand, which also would not stop the harm suffered within the country, and he, the left-wing poet, said that for the defense of the Republic of Poland no one would refuse blood. And today, instead of being in this Polish tradition, in which we work beyond divisions for Poland to save, you consistently, with stubbornness... Often, if you watch public television... I will say this with pain: you are stuck with filthy stubbornness in this sharing of Poles. I would like you to stop it because today Poles are forced by us, against their will, to listen to this debate. They'd like to hear from us. even an acute dispute, but about how to get Poland out of the crisis, for which consent It is not the government's fault, nor the opposition's fault, from the crisis of Coronavirus. This is the kind of dispute the Poles would want. Not a dispute over the election of May 10 in envelopes no one wants but one citizen. But for him, it's not worth having 30 million choices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u133	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I know that this will sound pathetic, but I have no doubt that today in this Chamber and in the coming days in this Chamber and in the Sejm we will decide not only on the quality of Polish parliamentarianism, not only on how Poland will continue to develop, but also on whether we will preserve with such difficulty the democracy built over 30 years. The bill on replacing the free democratic elections guaranteed in the Constitution by the procedure of correspondence, which is being conducted today in the Senate, is an attempt to deprive Poles of their sacred right to unfettered, fair, well-organized elections, secret elections, direct, universal and equal elections. And the right to free and democratic elections, as one of the fundamental rights, is more than a right to vote. Therefore, elections must be so planned and organised and then carried out that participation in them corresponds to the rules of the Constitution and other laws and regulations, not to be a farce and pseudo-elections calculated to legitimise governments, to preserve power above all else. High Izbo, the voting procedure you are trying to push through in Parliament, even if it were to take place on a different date than May 10th, there will be no elections within the meaning of the law. It will also be contrary to the standards of political culture for many reasons. I'll give you a few. First of all, it is not possible to call the voting elections which will be conducted indirectly by Poczta Polska under the supervision of the executive authority, in fact, the deputy prime minister, party officer, Mr Sasin, and not the constitutionally appointed State Election Commission. Is it possible to call elections that will not be popular, in which Polish citizens living outside the country will not be able to participate? They will also not be able to benefit from their electoral rights from people who live in Poland, but are outside the place of check-in or those who are in quarantine. Can the election be called a vote whose detailed procedures and whose organisation are not known a few days before its date? After all, the stability of the electoral law, its transparency, transparency, is a prerequisite for the credibility of the electoral process. Can the elections be called a vote which has not been preceded by a broad, accessible, unfettered election campaign, limited by order of order of the actual emergency situation that we are dealing with? There will be no election of the voting procedure with the risk of exposure to loss of health or even the lives of voters. Is it possible to call the election a vote which is prepared without a legal basis, in violation of the laws generally in force in Poland? The principles of legalism are being violated, attempts are being made to illegal, unlawful access to citizens' personal data. In such a situation, how can we talk about keeping the election secret? Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the correspondence vote was removed by law and justice from the electoral code in 2017 as a solution that you said so. It does not guarantee honesty, transparency and raises concerns about possible forgeries. It is worth recalling here the words of the President of Law and Justice of 2011, in which he stated that the democratic norm was the ability of the opposition to control elections, and fair elections are the foundation of a fair state. The words of Krystyna Pawłowicz, today the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, who in 2013 as a Member of Law and Justice, said that correspondence elections threaten to trade electoral packages and votes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of law and justice, what happened to the law and justice, that the whole camp of power changed its mind? Or is it just hypocrisy? Or is it more than that? Or maybe an instrumental treatment of the state and the law so as to pursue its ad hoc political, party interests. Unfortunately, your thinking about the state is largely about satisfying the party and personal interests. You're in charge, you're in charge, you're not saying you're going to get another state institution, which you're going to turn into party policy tools. We all know examples: marginalisation of the Constitutional Court and Supreme Chamber of Control; politicisation of the prosecutor's office; supervision of special services and police by a party officer; KRS, which tries to pacify the independence of the Polish judiciary to a company with executive authority; public media, which are a tool of party propaganda in the hands of Law and Justice. In order to close this mono-party system, you need another term of obedience to the Law and Justice of President Andrzej Duda. I think those of you who remember the latest history of Poland have obvious associations with the Polish People's Republic A weak country on the political outskirts of Europe managed by party officials, with slogans saying that the good of the party is the good of the state and the good of... Nation. ...nation. Ladies and gentlemen, today the party replaces the country in Poland and this is an extremely harmful phenomenon. At this point I will appeal to our common past, to the idea of Solidarity, to the time when many of us had the courage, when millions of Poles did not agree to replace the elections with a facade vote in the times of the Polish People's Republic. When we called for a boycott of votes that weren't really elections. When we dreamed of a constitution in which the principles of three divisions of power would be respected and there would be no record of the leading role of one party in the country. By embezzling the institutions of the State, their role becomes facade, they lose their political position guaranteeing the defence of civil rights and freedoms. In such a country as you are building, power becomes the subject, not citizens, and this is already a step towards the authoritarian state. A country treated as political loot, owned by a political party, becomes weak, plunges into chaos. Besides, chaos has become an immanent feature of your governments. Unfortunately, your bill of correspondence vote will only increase this chaos, as we see in front of us. Legal chaos, organizational chaos, system chaos and finally social chaos. It is impossible to organise correspondence elections in accordance with the Constitution in the coming weeks. Talking about it being maybe May 17 or May 23rd, it's irresponsible cocking with deadlines, trying to force, contrary to the law, Andrzej Duda's candidacy for another term. On 10 May, she appointed the Marshal of the Sejm and, in accordance with the Constitution, consummated her powers in colloquially speaking. This right cannot be extended to issue further orders, because the order has already been issued in this case. Therefore, the only sensible and constitutional action is the introduction by the government of a state of natural disaster, which will in fact merely sanction the prevailing reality, and the holding of elections within a time limit which will guarantee fair, free, unfettered, simply democratic presidential elections with the subjective and worthy role of the citizen of the electoral process. Let's do it in the interests of all of us parliamentarians, and let's do it in the interests of Poland. But let's also do it in the interest of the future president of the Republic, whoever it is. Let his mandate, his office card, be strong and worthy of the seriousness and respect this office deserves. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I believe in the wisdom of Parliament, I believe in the responsibility of the senators and I am convinced that we will reject this harmful and unconstitutional law, and we will give Polish parliamentarianism and Polish democracy a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u135	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! In the Polish tradition, elections are a holiday, a celebration of democracy, a holiday for all citizens who go out on the street, who are happy to make consciously, in a free way, with all their rights of election of the President. Presidential elections are also special elections, and we choose one person from among candidates, who is to be the most important person in the country for the next 5 years, the first person in the country. Are we seeing a holiday on the streets now? Do running politicians hug children who run up to them with flowers? Is it such a situation that at festivals people joyfully encourage the choice of their candidate? No, there's no such thing. There is a situation of mourning because in Poland there are fatal victims of the epidemic. There's a situation of sadness, fear of thousands of people in quarantine. These people will not be able to take part in elections, and not only will they be excluded from such elections, because the present law has not defined how people in quarantine will be able to vote, how postmen can deliver electoral packages to their homes. Since we say that this would be a celebration of democracy, and there is no such thing, there are only political and force-driven disputes, hastily elections, despite the fact that there are constitutional possibilities to organise elections in a way that will be appropriate to the citizens and convenient for the candidates, will allow them to present their views and their programmes... This will not be a real election, it will not be an election at all if it is to happen as described by the law that the Law and Justice presented to us. But there will be no elections, and I don't think there's any doubt about that anymore, because there are records and traps in this bill that actually allow this bill to be thrown into the trash. In the legal layer, we're dealing with a legal bubble, and that's the term that... We are dealing not only with a legal bubble that is unconstitutional, it does not provide the election of all constitutional electoral conditions, but also with a law that is at an embarrassing level. I can't recall the time when I'm in the Senate, a law that's so bad, a law that has so many negative opinions and practically no positive opinions, because we haven't received such opinions. This bill was crushed, just crushed by outstanding lawyers. But apart from the legal layer, we have a moral layer that dictates that these choices be fair. It's not going to be an honest election. Let's face it: it's not going to be a fair election because it doesn't meet any of the conditions that should be met so that these elections are fair. At the same time, these moral choices threaten our citizens. We've been discussing this for a few good hours. I asked the Minister, Mr Kraska was here. Will these elections be safe? And the Minister has avoided the answer once again. He didn't want to answer the question of whether these elections would be safe. We have heard from Minister Szumowski that these elections are safer than any other election. It's just that citizens don't want some more secure choices, you don't know how much safer choices they want. Citizens simply want safe choices, no adjectives, no choices in which they can take part. So one is a legal layer. The second is the moral layer, that is, the honesty of elections and the threat to citizens. But there's also an organizational layer. This is a complete disaster. Inventing these elections from start to finish is a total organizational disaster. It wasn't thought through, it wasn't prepared. The opinions of people with great experience, people who have organised elections many times, were not supported. Amateurs did it, politicians who don't know anything about it. It is not a coincidence that this State Election Commission operates in Poland since the pre-war period. It's not a coincidence. It is simply necessary to have a permanent institution that knows the dangers and can predict the consequences of certain laws. What's our situation now? Right now, ladies and gentlemen, we only have half the electoral committees. The last message from today, two hours ago, is that 60 judges withdrew from the District Election Commissions in protest, refusing to participate in this case, which has nothing to do with the election. They haven't passed the election records, they don't have it. The post office should deliver packages seven days before the vote, but it can't do it because there's no bill yet. These packages should be delivered 7 days before the vote, i.e. from Monday or from one day it should all go. No regulations. Why aren't these regulations in place? Who cared not to present these regulations to us? Is it so we can't ask? If there are no regulations that can only reassure us, show that there are mechanisms that will protect these elections if they are not presented, then we are dealing with a situation of hiding something from citizens. When do you want to present these regulations to people, to electoral committees, to everyone in the country? Friday? I really don't know when. We know we don't have time for this anymore. The election cannot take place either on 17 or 23 May, because a change of date would mean a change in the electoral calendar, which means that this calendar would have to be built from the beginning. That's not an option anymore. There's no way to hold an election in May. That's what all outstanding lawyers say. And I'm gonna say yes. What bothers me is the question: are these elections sure to be fair? We shouldn't ask each other such questions at all. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what will happen to a few million electoral packages. We have no idea. These are the packages that won't reach the right address. In Warsaw we have 1 million 600 thousand people registered, and there are 2 million 100 000 permanent residents here. Where will their packages go? What's it gonna look like? Probably on a national scale. And it's already counted by specialists. It could be a few million different. And if voters' entries can be entered by May 7, then the post office will finish delivery on May 9th. What about those stray packages? You know very well. 'Cause we talked about it in the committees. How it might look. I will also talk about another very dangerous situation, that is, the question of voting through. That means that one person could theoretically throw in This is not prohibited. Even dozens of electoral packages. Maybe it's just for example. come underneath the neighbors, etc. In the case of disabled voting, a voting solution was put in place through the vote, but there simply a person who looked after a disabled person could do something like this. And this is where they're gonna be set. You don't know where, you don't know which urns they're going to go to and throw in packages. I'm not gonna... The OSCE criticised the so-called OSCE. family vote. Yeah, we talked about that. After all, some people are checked in and living elsewhere; these packages will roam. Some will report to the electoral census e.g. In the city of X, their package will go to their home or to their ex-wife, etc. It has been said many times, but we cannot ignore it, ladies and gentlemen, because we need to know that every citizen will be able to take part in the election that will not be missed. I'm already skipping how many of these votes are going to be counted. During the committee meeting there was even a 14th... It's overseas. On April 26th, the election calls were due. Ten thousand registered, and the last election was attended by 300,000. That is what we can say right now, how many people, how many people from Polonia we have excluded from the elections. And the other thing. I'm just finishing up... It's a summary, actually. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, this is a legal bubble, under which no lawyer has signed. This is an anonymous piece of shit that no lawyer signed off on, whereas prominent constitutionalists said what they thought. Here's another thing. It is a dangerous act for people, dangerous for citizens. I guarantee us an organizational disaster, embarrassment and international bluff. 'Cause we'd really be in front of the whole world. Bottom line is, and not only that, because I haven't said a lot of things, I'm allowing myself to conclude that these elections shouldn't be held this way, on the basis of this bill. And what Law and Justice have done by offering us this is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. Then you will speak to Senator Marek Borowski, who asked me to speak from the Seym Tribune, arguing that it was necessary to... The Senate. ...sorry, from the senate stand, arguing that it is necessary to use additional props in your speech. I couldn't say no to the marshal, so with the other senators, I'm waiting, intrigued, for what's going to happen. I give the floor to Senator Mark Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u138	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your kindness. First of all, I just want to remind you that as we speak here about correspondence elections, which the PiS senators are very supportive of here and as if they are developing the advantages of these elections... Senator Rybicki has talked a little bit about how it was in the past. Mr. Senator isn't here. He might be listening to us somewhere. I just want to remind you what Senator Pęk said on December 22, 2017. Well, he said that correspondence elections can be allowed as an absolute exception, only for people with disabilities, and all arguments regarding the risks associated with voting correspondence absolutely sustains. That's what you said, Senator Bang. Of course, you can change your mind, you can, you just have to say it honestly. You have to say today: yes, I thought so, but now I don't think so. I will no longer quote the words of a member of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mrs Pawłowicz, or now a minister, Mr Horala. They were talking about buying votes, etc., etc., and that's all when the correspondence elections took place after the receipt, I'll repeat, after the receipt. However, today, when the electoral package is thrown into the box, it is not known whether it is correct, or it is stuck in a crack in the fence, because we also heard about it, that if there is no box, it will be so, it turns out that such elections obviously do not threaten anything and are very good. Okay, but that's by the way. What was I gonna say? A lot has been said here and much more will be said about why this bill is fatal. I'm trying to get attention. Only for one aspect, but I think it's quite sufficient. But before I try to present it, I'll give you a few facts about the surroundings. First of all, I want to say that according to the so-called. The postcard law shall be considered invalid if the voter has not entered his name and/or PESEL number on the statement, or has entered this data illegiblely, I draw attention to it and the envelope for the ballot card is not sealed. So if it's not sealed, the voice will be void. What does that mean? Well, that obviously means that citizens will seal these envelopes and seal them firmly. With the tongue... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They're gonna stick solid, I suppose, with some duct tape, because there's a big risk that it's just gonna break down. We know what envelopes look like and what happens to them when they're just glued together. And the envelope that's broken unfortunately means the voice isn't valid. Also with regard to the quality of this signature, it can be different here. I'm thinking of extending the vote counting procedure here. I ignore the fact that someone can really misread it, but in many cases you will have to take some time to read it and recognise that the signature is legible. The second provision is Article. 71 §1a of the electoral code, provision in force. He wasn't lifted, challenged or suspended. Quote: All the activities of the regional electoral commission to determine the results of the vote in the circuit are performed jointly I stress the word "jointly" by the members of the committee in a number of at least 2/3 of its full composition. This provision introduced the Law and Justice 2 years ago in its obsessive suspicion, because here is a committee that normally divided into teams and each of these teams calculated votes, was suspected of falsifying elections, that such a team would add signs to the side, paint, print results, etc., etc. Therefore, a provision is made that the committee must act together, that is to say, everyone sits at the table, the cards are drawn and who has been voted for. These are very important, these are very important regulations. And what's the vote count gonna look like now? Well, we'll have to open the so-called first. the return envelope, draw out a statement from there, check the readability of the signature on this statement, and also check PESEL, because it is necessary to check whether this citizen belongs to this constituency. What's it gonna look like? I understand there's going to be some computer, somebody's gonna be at that computer, somebody's gonna be dictating the number, and this member of the committee is gonna be taping this number, and then he's gonna get the answer to the question whether this citizen is entitled to vote in this constituency. And last but not least, once it's gone... I mean. You throw an envelope with a voting card into the urn, and then you'll have to put it all out of this urn and unplug the envelope again, take out the actual voice, throw it in... first save it somehow It's true, isn't it? And put it on the right poop. That's how it's gonna look. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to do the following experiment. I've got a stopwatch right here in front of me, and I'm about to turn on that stopwatch, and I'm gonna do this whole operation right in front of you. Here's a special envelope cutter. I would like to point out that without this scissor, opening these envelopes will take much longer. This is also the information for Minister Sasin to supply such scissors to all committees, otherwise... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this envelope cannot be opened in such a careless way, because it is possible to tear up the ballot. So, here you go, this is a return envelope. And look out, we're taking off. Here we go. I'm trying to do this as fast as I can. I'd like to point out that I've left room here for this scissor. Not everyone will leave. I'm pulling the envelope out of the middle, and I'm putting it down because we're checking the statement. We're checking the statement... Here is the statement, please: 'I declare that I have personally and secretly cast my vote.' And here's the signature. Well, let's say it's readable. E.g. Anna Kowalska. Now PESEL. I'm starting to dictate PESEL to the person who's sitting at the computer. E.g. 5601042921231. She's sticking it in, waiting a minute. Yeah, it's confirmed. Okay, we're putting this aside. And since there's confirmation, we're getting to the envelope. We're putting this envelope in the urn as it is for now. But then we're gonna have to take it out. Therefore, we take out the scissors, ladies and gentlemen... I'm sorry, I'm gonna count down some of that time, 'cause I'm assuming the committee's gonna be better off. Younger... I'm pulling the card, right? Now I don't know who she's from, I don't know. And, of course, we're opening up. Jan Kowalski's vote for Jan Kowalski. There you go, vote for Jan Kowalski. We're putting it down. It's stop time. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 minute 34 seconds. Okay, let's say I was slow, and that's where they're gonna get to practice quickly, and they're gonna do it in one minute. This law also states that the existing peripheral committees, of which 25 000 were decommissioned, are being closed. On average, about a hundred... well, about a thousand with something to vote on. Therefore, counting the votes lasted a few hours. It's true, isn't it? But somehow it was going to happen. But now, in connection with the epidemic, it's been recognised and I understand it. That there can't be so many committees. Because those people would be in there, that would be 250,000 people... It was therefore considered that one committee per municipality would suffice. And here, ladies and gentlemen, is this municipality, for example. Krakow. Krakow is... Yes. In Cracow there are about 600,000 people entitled to vote. Let's say... a lot of people won't vote, but let's say we vote 40%. Which, in the presidential election, is a low indicator. 40% That's 240,000 cards. If every card takes a minute, then we have 240,000 minutes. 240,000 minutes! I mean, ladies and gentlemen, 4,000 hours. 4,000 hours if you start a job 24 hours a day, that's 166 days. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But it's not over. Okay, now I am... I know, I know, that when it comes to law and justice, it is a group that is efficient and adaptable. So, even though they've come up with a rule saying that the committee is working together, this time it's gonna walk away from that rule and say, "Well, we're making teams." There may be 45 members of the committee, three teams each... That means there's 15 teams. Okay, they're gonna work. 166 days out of 15 is 11 days. But 11 days after 24 hours a day. It's not like they can work that much. They have to take breaks, they have to go home... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And who's gonna watch the urns? One more minute. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, and this concerns Krakow, Łódź, to a large extent Warsaw, although in Warsaw it was divided into districts... But here we have two hundred and tens of thousands of people. I'm addressing a few representatives right now... Do you understand what kind of monster you've made, including the previous recipes? And if you haven't noticed... Yeah, well, for God's sake, why are you doing this right now? Why do you agree to a crazy hater from Nowogrodzka do what he wants? And you need an emergency, right? Of course, the state of the natural disaster, yes, because in fact this is the state we have, only unnamed, but I don't want to develop the state now. I'm talking about this bill just... Time... ...is not suitable, it will not allow the election to be held either the tenth or the 17th, or the twenty-third, or any day, simply because it has been constructed so that it will not end counting the votes before the second round. Thank you. [[Applause]] Next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Our intriguing anticipation of your appearance... This curiosity has been satisfied. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak at the moment. As I understand it, from the point of view. Yes, Senator? Because it was an exception for Mr. Marshal Borowski, who specifically asked for... For the presentation. ...a presentation he made... I'd really like to ask everyone else... Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Your senators, please remain calm. I give the floor to Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u140	I would like to convince you that this irony from your Marshal was going to get us to think, and I wouldn't even put myself in that mood for good intentions, because I would like to convince you to look at what we're doing today. Elections... There is a multi-hour discussion behind us at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the other 2 committees, in which I did not actually speak substantively, understanding that the responsibilities of the conductor also require a certain degree of restraint in presenting my own views and opinions. Today we are in such a situation that the adoption of the law we are dealing with is intended to lead to elections next Sunday. Elections are held each time by using a ballot. Who has electoral cards in Poland today? Some private printers somewhere in the country, prosecutors in connection with the notification that electoral cards were leaked, officers of the Homeland Security Agency who are handling the case in connection with this notification, employees packing voting cards from the company in which the coronavirus was infected, who are packing these ballots for voters today in that company. These cards also have a closer unidentified group of people, one or more of whom have passed such a card, e.g. one of the presidential candidates. There are ballots in these places today. Where aren't they? They are not in the State Election Commission, which, according to the regulations in force in Poland, is responsible for organising elections. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this mean in practice? In practice, this means that these cards have a chance to go to voters. If this law were to be adopted, E.g. May 9th to vote on May 10th, throwing those ballots. The government in its recommendations says this: when you hand the book over to the library, then no one for two weeks. She can't borrow it because of an epidemiological threat. But if you get a ballot, the next day you're gonna throw it in the ballot box. This is, of course, not a perspective on which one of us could say that those who recommend such decisions are guided by the safety of Poles and Poles. I do not want to talk about other examples, because they have already been discussed and of course they will be discussed: the problem of the wrong addresses I am about to talk about the numbers involved; about the problem of the actual possibility of returning these electoral packages Today we do not know where the electoral boxes will be, in what number, how to secure them. Mr. Marshal Borowski talked about the difficulties in counting the ballots. Specialists have counted it, and if you count the voting cards at a similar rate, and there were one correspondence election in Bavaria... It appeared that in larger municipal electoral committees, such as: in Łódź or Krakow, the count of votes will last on average about dozens of days. And we all remember that, eventually, this possibility cannot be ruled out, a second tour is to take place two weeks later. So the results are to be given in time to print the voting card for the second round. I don't think anybody's even talking anymore, because we've already started to take a little bit of information about the idea that 30 million sensitive Polish and Polish data in the form of PESEL data would circulate in such an unprotected way. But of one duty, we're not fired. From the beginning the Senate is the institution which speaks on behalf of those who are not in the country, those of Poles and Poles who are constantly or periodically outside our country. This is more than 300,000 of our citizens who feel a connection with their homeland and who voted not once there, but in last year's parliamentary elections. In view of the procedures that apply today, the fact that in many countries there is a ban on moving even to the consulate or the embassy... In the elections last year more than 300,000 Poles voted, and until this year's elections registered, such data was given last week by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, 20 thousand. So we've ruled out a few hundred thousand people who feel connected to our homeland. But are they the only ones excluded? In fact, the procedure proposed to us in this project prevents all those whose report is not the same as their actual place of residence from voting. What numbers are you talking about? We're talking? Is this a serious problem for this group of citizens who, in accordance with this procedure, could not vote? According to the State Election Commission data, we are talking about several hundred thousand more Poles who will thus be excluded from the vote because the electoral package has no chance of reaching them. Let me tell you one more thing. The PKW states in numbers that in the last elections, last September, according to the state of 30 September last year, some 250 000 citizens were added to the electoral census; on the basis of the voting certificate more than 200 000 ballots were issued; more than 300 000 Poles voted abroad and about 340 000 citizens were entered in the electoral register at their request. This is over 1 million of our citizens who, according to the rules we want to adopt, do not give us a chance to vote. There's one more thing I'd like to say. For many years I have worked in the Supreme Audit Chamber, which is to be specifically responsible for public spending having a legal basis. We all know that these ballots have already been printed, without a legal basis. We know, of course, that in the intention of those who prepared these regulations, they secured themselves because they changed the law on the coronavirus, art. 15 says that he does not commit the offence laid down in the rules of the criminal code, disciplinary measure, an act that violates the discipline of public finances, who, during an epidemic emergency, acquires the goods or services necessary to combat that disease, does so in the public interest and that the acquisition of those goods or services could not be carried out without a significant threat. I would like to say to those who have prepared this article: this article does not secure those who bear these expenses. Isn't there a printer in Poland that can do this on normal terms? This is not a situation with the lack of ventilators and masks. I will tell you more: those who today do not want to admit to who printed these cards and on what terms they know that they will come to explain why the laws that apply to all public officials in the country have been violated. Why do I assume they know that? Because if we're reading opinions that have come into the Senate, then we know that no one, literally nobody wants to admit that he ordered these cards to be printed, that he knows the number and where they were printed. In a letter addressed to the Senate, Prime Minister Jacek Sasin wrote: "The Ministry of State Assets is not competent to answer the question about printing voting cards. The Polish Post, when writing to us, answers: "Referring to the bill that the Polish Senate is considering and the solutions that are accepted there, the Polish Post is not the creator of the solutions introduced by the legislator's will. Those who could at least tell us, is this operation safe, what it says? The chief health inspector, Minister Jarosław Pinkas, wrote: "The draft of this law contains provisions indicating that the detailed arrangements for the implementation of the election process will be regulated in the implementing acts of the law. The national epidemiology consultant says: "In order to assess and present an expert position in this case, the scope of information on the progress of the planned process described in the Act is insufficient. Additional information is needed. And those who have the courage to sign with their name, e.g. The Management Board of the Polish Society of Epidemiologists and Doctors of Infectious Diseases said that the only form of protection was to dress election committees in complete costumes, like doctors in infectious diseases wards. Besides: According to currently available data, coronaviruses can survive on contaminated paper surfaces even for a few days. And further: For technical reasons, disinfection of electoral packages and their contents may be difficult or even impossible. Time. In the name of this responsibility, which bears on each of us not the responsibility of clubs and wheels, but on each of us as parliamentarians and as senator I recommend, please, I seek and convince you: let us not accept this bill in the name of responsibility for the health and life of Poles, in the name of responsibility for the standards of the democratic rule of law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've always said "Dear Guests," and here it's empty. I'm going to start with a quote because Senator Pęk quoted Mr Giertych's words à about the Civic Platform. I found the latest statement by Mr Giertych, from February this year, on Law and Justice: "Law and Justice cannot deal with social communication due to rising prices, shoes here I will skip the word, add: bad behaviour The members of the governing party and the looting party commented on the patron. According to Giertych PiS he wants to make a cross between Belarus and Turkistan from Poland. There is currently a fight for the state foundation and whether we will be slaves of the PIS. It's for the Senator's balance. And second note. At the committee meeting, we also recognised the issue of health risks and the opinions that have been presented to us. Recently, data have been released from the European Institute of Epidemiology. And you can simply say that in Poland there is no problem that we are at the forefront of Europe. Well, I don't think we're in the last four countries, in the tail of countries where the reduction of epidemics is least effective when it comes to European countries. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, back to the so-called. The postal bill... The choice of this law will decide whether the principles of democracy and the values enshrined in the Constitution will be respected. Those who were at the committee meeting yesterday heard how beautiful Professor. Piotrowski spoke about what the constitution is, who it is intended to serve and what people it is addressed to To all Poles who are open, who understand it. And she's not something that's embarrassing. On the contrary, it creates a framework for the functioning of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, a society that has no authority is like a horseman without a head and a nation that does not respect authority. But it's not about authority. He's dead. What am I saying this for? We have received, ladies and gentlemen, dozens of different opinions, opinions of different authorities, different backgrounds. Some of them have already been quoted here. I'd like you to In particular, the Senators of Law and Justice took note of them and respected these opinions. And what do we hear in public space? Even today, Senator Swed said that the Senate is obstructing or acting destructively with regard to the work of this law. On the other hand, another law and justice activist said on TV that what the Senate is doing is not wickedness, but something worse. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we are honestly considering the bill before us, we are asking for opinions, we are discussing, we are working for two days at the committee meeting, we are having an open discussion, we are doing obstruction, we are doing something worse than wickedness. And yesterday or today, I don't remember Mr Duda's chief of staff, former Deputy Marshal Adam Bielan, said that what Marshal Grodzki is doing was malicious. Well, notice now that the Senate isn't to blame. If you don't have arguments, you have to ad personam attack. What would she look like? I already talked about it at the committee meeting. If Law and Justice had a majority in the Senate, the procedure for the adoption of this law? Well, four hours in the Seym, skipping first or second reading... On the committee, on the committee. ...in the evening of the Senate vote, and at noon the next day, the President would sign this bill. We also respect the process itself, not just the effect of the work. We want the laws to be reviewed, analyzed, processed just like this bill we're talking about today. Well, sometimes we agree, of course, to shorten our working hours. This was the case with Shield 1.0, Shield 2.0 or even Shield 3.0, realizing that this is needed because it is about supporting the economy, supporting the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, of those dozens of opinions that have come to us from different backgrounds, approx. Two, three percent are opinions that were not, you can say, negative opinions. Otherwise, without completely referring to the substance, they said that it was not so bad that this law had some value. Senator Kwiatkowski has already mentioned Mr Pinkas here. I will remind you that the chief health inspector, Dr. Jarosław Pinkas, is the man who said China is far away and that... ...the opposition has to put some ice on it. ...the opposition has ice in their panties. And when we did 200 or 2,000 studies per million people, he said we were perfectly prepared. The author of the second opinion, which says: Poles, nothing happened, is Mr Jan Nowak, President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. This is a known law and justice activist who became the head of this important institution. We know what happens to cards, with printing, with colportage, and above all with sharing PESEL and all citizens who can take part in the election, and he writes: Poles, nothing happened, everything is okay. And do you remember what the great PiS activist did when he had to make a decision about a letter of support to the National Court Register? Well, he locked it all up and said it wasn't allowed. And 30 million PESEL-i and personal data of Polish citizens were made available by light hand to the post office. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! These opinions can be divided into 3 groups. One group is the opinion of those who speak about the functioning of future elections. These are, among other things. Postmen, just like they said here. The posters are talking about all the problems, the broken boxes, the inability to deliver, the ambiguities of the system... And we're not saying that the correspondence voting system is a bad system, but you're not prepared for it at all, completely. The second element is what Senator Borowski was talking about. 4 days ago Dr. Flis in Cracow counted Taking a slightly more efficient person who opens it, counts and adds That for Krakow it is 59 working days 24 hours a day. So you don't even know what wick you're giving Poland when it comes to elections. 59 days of work all the time in counting votes. The second area, ladies and gentlemen, is the health opinion. Polish epidemiological society, epidemiologists. Ladies and gentlemen, Prof. Grzeszczak, whom I very much like to listen to, said that today in Poland we have a pandemic, but not only this health pandemic, but also a psychological pandemic, and funding elections in this state to Poles is a crime. I quote a well-known epidemiologist who said: think very hard about whether Poles need it today. And if the Law and Justice have always raised so much as to listen to the sovereign's voice... You know the latest research. 78% Poles in research say that they do not want elections now, there are other problems, and if we add all these functional, health problems, they should not happen. There is also a reference to the fact that WHO says that correspondence choices are safer than traditional ones. We don't ask ourselves what's safer, we say what's safe. And you know the law and justice state, what is safe for Poles? The fact that elections can't take place during the pandemic, during the state of emergency that we actually have. Elections should be a holiday. As Senator Zdrojewska said, this is a celebration of the whole family, a celebration in the commune, in Poland, where people feel an identity, making a very important choice. And the last aspect, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, is the legal aspect. Plenty of authority. I know from my own experience that for gentlemen of the Law and Justice, as someone is recognized as authority and has before the name Professor, he is already a slightly suspicious man. And I'd like to give you a few quotes from that opinion. Professor Patyr, a constitutionalist, says that what is involved in this bill is a gross violation of the law-making process, that is, bypassing the mode, that is an area of complete lack of trust in the power that creates rules for one against another, not for the common good, but to use the records, one against another. And what else do you say, Professor? That you're taking over the functions of local governments. At the same time, he repeats the matter concerning this holiday of democracy, but also the family's common going to vote. So you're spoiling a community about elections. I will no longer quote these other statements, just to say it, Ladies and gentlemen, that Prof. Matczak, in his long opinion, conveys such conclusions: the law violates the principle of universality of elections, the principle of equality with regard to active electoral law, violates the principle of equality with regard to passive electoral law. Can you answer, is this equal time when it comes to elections? After all, this is the obvious preference of one candidate who... what does he do? Well, he's going to see the cherries bloom, watch... And what does public television do? He's showing you how the president leans over a blooming cherry. He wakes up to life in Poland. And a lot of that kind of stuff. And this statement was made for March, Ladies and Gentlemen: Mr Duda's staff of President Duda had 3 minutes of various speeches, e.g. on TVP Info TV. The staff of Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska 19 but the president himself had 20 hours. Which is even more important, all the comments on Margaret Kidawa-Błońska were negative, and when the president went to see the fire... ...over Biebrza. Please? Over Biebrza. ...At Biebrza, all this was shown in positive aspects. He's out. It's out, yeah. Is that equal? After all, among these 10 candidates are perhaps fantastic people who would be fantastic presidents. But how are we supposed to meet them? That's equal opportunities? Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. Marshal, allow me to sum up. Yesterday we had such a brief discussion here and Mr. Senator Pak said not to use the words "knot" or "overtake." Well, I agreed that we shouldn't use them, but I would like to say this: from the point of view of three important aspects, this law is a legal bubble, a functional bubble, as Senator Borowski said, and a health bubble. 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Poland say: do not make choices, because today Poland and we as Poles have completely different problems. Put it on a different date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm just gonna take my props, 'cause they're hardcore prints. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, it is said that he who is without sin should cast a stone, and I am not without sin, but I will cast with this stone and say that, unfortunately, each one of you exceeds the time for speaking. Since so far the representatives of the camp with the majority in this House have spoken, I must assure the Senators of Law and Justice that I will also allow them to pass the same time. Well, I have to be fair. Nevertheless, I appeal to all the senators representing our society in this House to stick to those 10 minutes that... I don't... Mr. Senator, I have no doubt... I crossed 30 seconds. There are different opinions about this, Mr. Senator, but I would not like to argue with you, because gentlemen do not discuss facts, and whether something lasted 30 seconds or 3 minutes is an undisputed fact. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Michael Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This law not only violates the basic principles, the principle, which must be respected if the vote is to be held democratically, but also creates a precedent which makes it possible for us to be in another Poland if it is adopted and implemented. This law, pushed by the Law and Justice by such an effort and in such a ruthless way, does not provide for the 5-adjective elections which are the basis of the democratic rule of law that we have fought for. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Gogacz, listen to what I have to say. Okay? The Act violates universality because it excludes part of voters, part of Polish citizens entitled to vote. It excludes those who, in the number of about 1 million people, voted in a different place from their place of residence, e.g. because they were moving. It also excludes those who have joined the electoral census, and this is also about 1 million people. Excludes Poles abroad. About 300,000 people voted abroad last year. They won't vote because they won't have the opportunity or the opportunity or the benefit of... Because local laws in a pandemic situation prohibit free movement. This bill eliminates visually impaired voters and eye damage This is 0.5 million because it does not provide for Braille overlays. So it eliminates about 1.5 million people. They won't be able to vote. Plus, you have to add people who, by their own inebriation, or because they did not provide for this type of voting system, they do not have mailboxes. Because the rule that you put a package under the door or under the mat or stick between the fence bars is not a rule that can be considered appropriate when it comes to election packages. The electoral packages will not be registered prints, as they have been so far, for which receipt would be signed and the sending would also be signed. So there's going to be any kind of freedom in this situation. The law also violates the principle of equality because it allows family voting. I mean. A family member may also cast votes from others in his family. But you can also imagine that the tenant committee will do it with the neighbors' voices. These two issues make it impossible for this law to ensure democratic elections. But it's also classified. Where there's secrecy, security, when the electoral package is treated like a flyer you put in, you put it in... etc. Where's the security detail? The National Election Commission has been removed from the entire electoral process. So who oversees the printing? Who's gonna oversee voting cards and voting packages? Who's gonna count it? Who's gonna protect you? And who's gonna oversee the ballot boxes that the voters are gonna vote on between the end of the vote and the transport of the ballot boxes to the electoral board? Who's gonna supervise this? Who's gonna take responsibility? The election according to this law is prepared by the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister from PiS with the help of Polish Post, which was also filled by PiS nominates. And she's gonna judge this election. Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, already created by the National Court Council, which was appointed by the PiS. Politically appointed. And that's what the PiS candidate, current president Andrzej Duda, is running for. This is a curiosity situation which causes, quite rightly, that a large number of Poles have suspicions of the integrity of these elections. It seemed to me that the PiS, and especially the current President who is running, should be concerned that the electoral process should be transparent and ensure the strong authority of the elected President. But that's not what's happening. Power must be defended by all means. That is the conviction of the rulers at the moment. The rulers crossed all the boundaries we talked about earlier when they removed the three divisions of power and took over the Constitutional Tribunal, the National Court of Justice. We talked about the time limit being to manipulate the election. Right now, we're ahead of that limit date. Therefore, do not be surprised by our harsh words, our disapproval of creating a situation in which we will not have confidence in the fundamental democratic process, such as the elections. These elections should be called a vote, not an election. Elections are also equal opportunities. The President-in-Office every day, for the last two weeks, on different pretexts, is on television, in public media. It's about the drought, and it's about the fire, and it's about the pipeline. You can see him using his position as the President-in-Office for electoral propaganda. It's a pity he's doing this because it's also gonna undermine the assessment of those choices that are ahead of us. Of course, the presidential election must take place. But is it supposed to be an election like this? After all, correspondence is also an opportunity for online elections. Such elections are in many European countries. This kind of electoral method provides some basic principles, defined by these 5 adjectives, which must be realized. These are essentials. I don't want to talk about how this bill was passed in the Sejm. In fact, for four hours, without first reading on the committee. That's the bill, without consulting. I know that Law and Justice would like this bill to be passed in the same way in the Senate, but you should have such reflection that we will not allow it in the Senate. The Prime Minister's rushing the Senate. He says we've been waiting a dozen... 20 days and so on. He's rushing the Senate, saying that elections have to be held in constitutional terms. However, there is also a rule in the Constitution that the Senate has 30 days to deal with every law. It's not just a bill. It's not a bill, it's not a bill, it's a bill that's gonna lead to a change in the system. And unfortunately, I'm afraid it's a step towards the authoritarian system. What will that lead to? To the fact that part of the public won't accept these elections and not recognize the elected president. What are the consequences of this situation? These are internal consequences and international consequences, so this law must be rejected. Of course, after the bill has been rejected, an agreement must be reached, but not on the basis that you are proposing at the moment. And you're proposing an undemocratic law, a law that I repeat, will lead to a change of system and a departure from democracy, which we've been lucky to have for thirty years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We know that we also have it thanks to your efforts. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja, who will be the last speaker before recess. I'd also like to tell the senator that he's not limited by his 7:00 break. You can say as much as you want within your limit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, in 80 hours, the voter's gonna be quiet. But what silence if there really is no democratic election? On Sunday, at most, there will be an act of pseudo-vote. Free elections, democratic elections, in line with international standards, are elections where candidates have equal rights to present their electoral agenda, equal rights in the organisation of meetings, conventions and conventions. This is not the case at all, because fundamental civil rights have been limited in recent weeks and months. In fact there is a state of emergency, there is an emergency state. When there are no free elections, and thus the system is changed, the political textbooks describe as the state of the anocracy regime. Anocracy is something between democracy and authoritarianism. What does this bill include? This law, of course, marginalizes the State Election Commission. There's no telling why he's pulling the PKW out of the election. We were asking questions to the head of the PKW. The head of the PKW has no idea how and by whom they are printed so-called. election cards. This pattern, which is sold by one of the candidates, has already been spread on the streets by the electoral card model, was not agreed with the PKW at all. No one's admitting to these ballots. It's hard to tell where, when and by whom they were created. We do not know why the Ministry of State Assets should be responsible for the elections. What do state assets have in common with the organisation of elections? We don't know. And finally, the packages on the wipers. Among the posters there are stories of how these packages are to be delivered, delivered, put behind bars, somewhere between fence anglers, thrown on the floor in the halls, if there is no box, thrown on the mat. I do not agree that the President of the Lightest Republic should be chosen through packages thrown on the ground in this way, wiper packages. This is ridiculous and outrageous. And so far, in this normal state, in accordance with the electoral code, the correspondence vote looked very solidly delivered through mail, by the authorized person, the employees of the municipal office or the post office, but it came into the hands of the voters after presenting the document confirming the identity. Now these packages are to be thrown anywhere without introducing any control mechanism. This is outrageous. You don't know what's wrong with people with disabilities, what's wrong with Braille overlays. What about access to those ballot boxes to be placed somewhere on the lawns, on the squares before the current circuits? There are gaps in the security of this system, there is a violation of constitutional rules, because they will not be universal elections, either directly or even or secret. But basically, it's a charge of elementary indecency. People pulled out old sewing machines, neck masks. People of good will organize dropouts, collections, protective equipment for doctors, paramedics, nurses, social workers. There's a national fundraiser, help, printout on 3D printers, sewing masks, digging as much as you can, even from old workbooks. During this time, the state authorities are interested in one power. They're not interested in helping medics, paramedics, nurses. These are the real assets, the assets of the state, this is the great community that is formed, the community of free people, supporting health care, the people who are daring this underfunded health system. The system, which lacks everything: protective equipment, masks, gloves, trimmings, disinfectants, also lacks more complex disinfection and disinfection equipment to ensure safety in ICUs, for example. That's not there. What's wrong? There's a rush to power, a rush to stay in power. It hurts because if the authorities put so much energy into fighting the pandemic... Today we have shocking data on the subsequent cases of Coronavirus, shocking numbers, indicating further deaths. A few days ago, there was information from the European Centre for Foreign Affairs. Prevention and Control of Diseases, that Poland is among the 4 countries where the situation is not improving. In this situation, the energy of the apparatus of power goes into the organization of pseudo-boroughs. You can't agree to that. There's one more thing you can't agree to. To break up the community, to argue, to polarize, to draw political capital in the age of epidemics, to fight, to fight. This should be a time of cooperation between all, not sharing, this traditional sharing of Poles. You can rule more or less smoothly, but you fund a show of fights, brawls, polarizations. That's what these pseudo-boroughs are meant to do. Not only does the community suffer from this, but the majesty of the state also suffers from it. I do not agree to such mediocrity and I do not agree that the President of my Poland, the Republic of Poland, is the person chosen from the package left on the mat. This is unworthy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 03 to 20 minutes 34]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u148	We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: a law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I move on to the amendment that we've been working on for the correspondence election, let's start with a few facts. Presidential elections are one of the most important elections in our country, because it is in them, under the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, that we elect the highest representative of the Polish authorities, guaranteeing the continuity of the state authority, the highest authority of the state in the field of executive power, the President of the Republic of Poland. The term of office of the current President, Andrzej Duda, ends on 6 August. According to constitutional records, presidential elections may be held no earlier than 100 days and no later than 75 days before the end of office of the head of state. So the possible dates are between 28 April and 23 May this year. On 5 February, we were informed by the Marshal of the Sejm, Elizabeth Witek, managing the elections for 10 May. It was a time when we had not yet known about the impending pandemic of Coronavirus. The first illness in our country occurred a month later. In view of this extraordinary situation, the government has begun to look for the safest form of holding elections which, according to our constitution, must take place. In Shield 1.0 and Shield 2.0, we have introduced a number of choices to allow correspondence voting for elderly, disabled and quarantined persons. However, due to the progressive epidemic of Coronavirus, the government, like many European countries and according to, among others, with the opinion of the World Health Organisation, which I have already mentioned, he considered that correspondence elections would be the safest form of voting. And this is what we are looking at today's amendment. It introduces the principle of purely correspondence and personal voting in the President's elections. According to the Act, the designated operator The Polish Post will deliver the electoral package to the electoral mailbox according to the address listed in the electoral register. The Act also contains provisions authorising the Minister responsible for State assets to define, by means of regulations, the model voting card and the detailed arrangements for the delivery of electoral packages and the receipt of return envelopes by quarantined persons. The Act also sets out the mode of conducting elections abroad. The Marshal of the Sejm will also be able to change the timing of the elections, of course, to a term in accordance with the Constitution, which does not exceed 23 May. In the meantime, what does the opposition propose about the presidential election? First, of course, he denies any form of conduct, accusing the rulers of evil will. However, when proposals are made to change the deadline by amending the Constitution, e.g. The proposed extension of the term of office of the current head of state by 2 years without the possibility of re-election is not agreed by the opposition to change the term of the presidential election. On the one hand, boycotting all initiatives related to the holding of elections, on the other hand, with their shift. The only proposal for the opposition is to introduce the state of the natural disaster, which would involve huge budgetary problems and a shift of elections by a month or two months. This is not a solution, because we do not know today what the pandemic of Coronavirus is going to look like at this time. It must be regretted that, in the name of its own particular political interests, the opposition is unable to talk and make substantive decisions for the good of Poland even in the face of a pandemic. I fully support the introduction of correspondence elections in the forthcoming presidential elections. It is not ideal, but at a time of pandemic it is the most secure health of the citizens participating in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u150	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Each of us, as is the case with every bill, must answer the question: what are the arguments that I take into account when voting in favour of the bill being considered or against it? Allow me to present my line of reasoning, which I will be guided by voting in favour of this law. It is clear to all of us that the obligation to hold the presidential elections comes from the constitution, in connection with the end of the term of office of the President-in-Office. The date of 10 May, which was designated for these elections, is in line with the Constitution, because it is within the period between the 100th and the seventy fifth day before the end of the President's term of office. Everything was fine, as my previous speaker said, but there was an outbreak of coronavirus, which complicated the course of this election campaign and complicated the possibility of holding elections in May this year. It was then proposed to extend the term of office of the President-in-Office for two years, which gave the opportunity for elections to take place after the outbreak was over, but this solution required a revision of the Constitution. It is known that there was no agreement of the required qualified constitutional majority to change the constitution, so this solution had to be abandoned. Therefore, elections must be held before 23 May, because this is the last constitutional term, and if we do not, we will fall into a systemic crisis because the President's mandate will expire and there will be no President. I'm not gonna dwell on what the consequences of this state of affairs would be, and everyone knows that. Hence the proposal contained in the bill discussed today to hold elections in May, but in correspondence. It offers an opportunity to meet constitutional deadlines and at the same time reduces the risk of epidemics and the massive participation of citizens in elections. It was possible, and still can, at the price of this risk avoid the systemic crisis, which is also an imperative for us if the state is to act in a stable and unwavering manner. There are well-known arguments that can be countered by the proposals for a natural disaster that allows the presidential elections to be postponed. It is well known that this would entail huge negative consequences for the economy that we are trying to re-open, develop, and there would also be huge budgetary consequences. To be honest, we are not even able to imagine today the scale of these obligations, these obligations, these burdens on our budget that would result from this. Therefore, you can say yes: regardless of the fact that the law has Our discussion shows this. "Some of its shortcomings are actually the only solution to this dilemma that we have faced. Senator Borowski wouldn't mind, but I would say that even those scissors that are so practical, but also other, more serious cases concerning these correspondence choices can be made, on the basis of lower order regulations. Just as a result of such discussions as ours to introduce and improve. For me, however, the most important thing is that the bill we are discussing is against the concerns of some of our fellow senators that we are approaching tyranny. It guarantees free elections for citizens. For every citizen on the ground will decide whether to vote at all and decide who to vote for. So I wouldn't be afraid of such tyranny. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Gawłowski will speak... He resigned. ...who gave up his voice. Senator Szejnfeld too... Senator Szejnfeld has resigned his voice. Mrs. Danuta Jazłowiecka, Senator Jazłowiecka. Mr. Marshal, I, too, give up my voice. Thank you very much. Marshal Moravian-Staneck? For protocol. She gave her speech to the record. Senator Gorgon-Comor? Remotely. I'm resigning from my speech, and I've also cast my vote on the record. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. I, Mr. Marshal, resign from my speech, give my speech to the record. Thank you very much. Senator Ujazdowski? He's not here. Absent. Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska? I'm transferring it to protocol. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski? There's no Senator Jackowski. If he does, we'll give him a voice out of order. Senator Malecka-Libera. There isn't any either. He's not in the O.R. It's Senator Jerzy Wczyła. He resigned, filed for protocol. He put his voice in the discussion on the minutes. Senator Eve Matecka. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I resign, I submit my vote in the debate for the minutes. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm giving up my vote. Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura... He's resigning. The signal came that he's resigning. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u153	Mr. Marshal, I'll let you down. I don't give up on my speech. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, this case is serious for several reasons. I'll try to pinpoint them here. First of all, you have to start with what the reality is. The actual state is not the one that was when the elections were written down, i.e. when they were managed in early February. The facts have changed because of the presence of Cortox and the ruling United Right has tried to do everything And he's still trying. In order to be able to hold elections within a constitutional time limit. Let me remind you that the constitutional term is the term between the hundred and seventy-five days before the end of the current term of office of President Andrzej Duda. The question is: what should the responsible opposition do? Not total, but responsible. Well, in this state of fact, threats should help to fulfil this constitutional obligation, because this duty is not only on power, but also on the opposition, which is to lead to honest, fair, four-adjective elections in the case of the President and, of course, those that would not put our citizens at risk of losing their health or their lives. And what are we really observing, what have we observed until recently? A continuous attack, an attack on every election camp proposal. First, the main argument was the issue of danger to life and health. This argument was also raised in some of the expertise we received. I myself, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder, from what degree of scientific thought a man no longer thinks in a way, I would call it everyday, and he begins to invent things that are simply impossible to meet and exceptions about the probability of fulfillment at a millionth level trying to bring to the rule. Ladies and gentlemen, our citizens simply did not buy this, therefore there is no longer this argument used in a general way at the moment. The average citizen, our voter, several times a week, or at least once a day, stands in line for the store, touches the various items he buys in this store often in paper packaging And it doesn't get infected. And the question is, why are you trying to push this voter in, scare him with such a vision that when you touch the ballot card or the electoral package, it will suddenly get infected? Of course it's bullshit, which is also confirmed by the results of scientific research that you find difficult to take note of. This is bullshit. You're already coming down from that argument, fortunately. So what's the next argument? Namely, the elections will be undemocratic, not four adjectives, for example. they can't be common. And what evidence is there? These are those who are in quarantine or somehow isolated, who will not be able to participate. On the contrary If there were no universal correspondence elections, these people could not participate in the elections. This is the only way that correspondence can make it possible for them to do so in their current legal state. Next thing you know, she's been in the O.R. That's how many thousands of people there, a few hundred thousand, probably 200 thousand people changed their place, i.e. It entered a different register, changed the electoral register, entered the register in a different village than it lives in. It's true, but it's already happened because we're joining the electoral register before the election. The next issue, again, concerning people who do not live in their place of permanent check-in. They can't vote because the packages will come to another address. What was it like before? Previously, those who did not live at the place of their permanent check-in could have joined the electoral register where they were going to vote or the electoral census just before the election. And a lot of people did. Can this be done before these elections? Of course, yes. You can add it to the polling list. The bill we're considering doesn't prohibit that. What's next? People who live abroad can also now join the electoral register. The fact that there is a limit to 14 days before, but let us remember that there may be a situation, that the elections will be held on 23 May, and that deadline has not yet passed. Few of this, if it is normally required to be added to the electoral register, I would call it written correspondence, but abroad it is possible to do so by e-mail or even by telephone. Those arguments you're making are failing. Well, there's another one, which is that you can't get a voter's certificate, which is normally issued before the elections, I'd call it, in the usual way. Except it's not the bill that's taking it away. It was forbidden by a law that is already a law. In the current legal state of this certificate will not be able to be downloaded for a simple reason, introduced by Shield 2.0 . This is the current state of law. Like I said, there's a lot more to these charges. Well, I was most amused by the presentation here or something. I don't know what to call it the Marshal Borowski show. Yeah, there was also an argument for spreading the envelope. This is a very interesting argument, such an argument that envelopes will fall apart, spontaneously of course. There wasn't gonna be enough people. The presentation was very interesting, as I said Which, when working in committees, will simply not be able to count the votes. That's an argument, but there's also an art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11, which I will quote, because it is also worth knowing that it should not refer to this later: In particularly justified cases, the electoral commissioner, with a view to the efficiency and effectiveness of the committee's work, may appoint more people as members of the district committee than specified in the paragraph. It's called a normal term. What does that mean? This means that it is possible to establish, if actually congestion would arise, more people to the municipal district committee, which I remind you of It'll just count the votes, take those votes to the polls and count them. Here's another argument. Maybe we should leave the ones that were quoted earlier. This is the case: these choices cannot be carried out. It is indeed a danger, but let us remember who makes it so. The fact that they can't be... Maybe it's different. To the fact that it will be difficult to carry them out on May 10th, you have led and the Marshal of Grodzki sitting here. Because if we were to consider this law, let's assume that a week is long enough to gain expertise and reflect on a dozen pages of text, if we did it within that time limit, then the time for preparation and organization would be longer. Do you blame us for the possibility that there will be only three days left? Look in the mirror. That's where you're complaining. For the record, if this law enters into force, which is theoretically and practically possible, then the elections can be held on 17 or 23 May. Then there will be more time for organizational preparation. Incidentally, attempts to accuse different institutions, companies, bodies of preparing for elections that are inevitable, even threatening them with a criminal code, just because they not only want, but are obliged, have such competence, i.e. the law, and the obligation, these elections organisationally carry out, I find it completely irresponsible. I hope that the Senate or the senators will not go out with such, I do not know, a message that we will punish those who work for the state. Because it must be made clear that the elections in May by 23 May are in line with the constitution. We just want to follow the constitutional order, and you both are disturbing in a real way, e.g. the question of 30 days of the Senate's work on this simple law and disturbing in a way, I would call it media, inventing various tricks, different legal bases, different states that actually do not exist and will not take place. Yeah, but that could possibly be forgiven, in quotes, because that's the law of the opposition. Only the fundamental question is different here. Why is the opposition doing this? There are several possibilities. One is very uncomfortable for you. It's an attempt to force the state of the natural disaster. That's what I'm going to talk about at the next resolution because it takes a little longer. The second is the possibility. There is chaos after the May elections fail. You just want Poland to be chaos, constitutional chaos. I call it a black constitutional hole after August 6. Because if there is no head of state, there is no one to sign the bill, appoint the most important people, etc. The question is... But the extension... As far as disaster issues are concerned, it is, of course, an extension of the term of office. But what's after that? Well, after that, we're going to have a natural disaster, we're going to have 30 days, and we're going to have a term of office in the next 90 days. It's a shot if it's announced tomorrow. From 7 May to 4 September. Someone's gonna say, "You can schedule an election." Well, how's that gonna work? Are we continuing with these candidates, or are we continuing with the new squad from the beginning? Why didn't any of you who were pushing the state of the natural disaster answer this basic question? Because alone... Mr. Senator, three minutes late. One more minute. I'm just finishing my thought, Mr. Marshal, and I'd like you to sign me in for the next five minutes. On two. Why are you doing this? Because, in the event of a natural disaster, there are no transitional provisions to determine Of course, I'm talking about the bill on this condition. What happens if this condition is introduced not before the start of the calendar but during the electoral calendar. Since there are no transitional provisions, it is necessary to sort them out somehow. None of you, none of you, are at the moment, today, now able to state in what way to choose the President after the natural disaster. There is little if we wanted to schedule such elections, it would have to be between the sixth and seventh months before the end of the term of office. Well, in the case, I'd call it, the usual term this date is certain. And what date will I ask all of you about this? The end of your term after the natural disaster? We don't know how long it will last, it can be extended. When should the elections be scheduled after the natural disaster has been introduced if the deadline for issuing these elections is counted backwards and is six months from the uncertain date of the end of the term of office? Can any of you answer that question? The end... It'll be over if you admit you made a mistake. You could have helped us make good choices. Of course, as far as possible in this situation, which is now, unblamed either by us or by you. But you have adopted the strategy of total opposition. History will settle it for you. As I said, thank you for the time being, Mr. Marshal. Sign me up for the next five minutes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u154	Senator, I'm not signing you up for the next five minutes for two reasons. Namely, you've already used 16 minutes, and besides, the list of speakers is, I remind you, closed. Next up is Senator Frankiewicz. Thank you. I'm resigning. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... ...Goggler. Mummy's in here. Oh, no, he made a speech on the record. Excuse me. Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We're discussing today over... Well, some people call this bill mail, correspondence. In the constitutional nomenclature it is a law, not some draft law. We received it from the Sejm, so that with great respect we should approach it, especially since it is a law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. We are discussing at a special moment, because perhaps for the first time in the history of the reborn Senate, perhaps for the first time since 1989, the law that comes from the Seym... Whatever rank we're talking about. Or the more important, the codex, the political ones, or the ordinary laws. I guess it hasn't happened yet that we waited until the last minute in the Senate for another reading. And that's what happened today. Those of you who have not resigned from the vote who have had their speeches Of course, including Mr. Marshal, who made the presentation, they presented, at least in your opinion, very important arguments, but of those arguments that you presented, very few of which could not be presented immediately after 6 April, that is to say at the beginning of the time period that we had in the Senate to draw up this law. This presentation, Mr. Marshal, could have taken place at the beginning of April. You did not need opinions and statements from constitutionalists, professional authorities or other bodies who issued opinions in this regard. The President of the Legislative Commission has the right to address to experts, authorities in the field, questions or requests for expertise, but may also indicate at what time he would like to receive answers. So that waiting for these opinions for 30 days had, of course, no justification in my opinion. But that's what happened, and we're sitting in this very formula. I would therefore like to say that the legal aspect is primarily important here, and that is because we are dealing with a specific situation. We know the article of the Constitution, the article. 127, which says that the President's term of office lasts five years. It lasts five years, so until August 6th we should just... Well, August 6 ends with the current President's term of office. There's art. 128 constitutions that say the marshal sets an election date. There's art, too. 131 I already talked about him today, asking questions, but I didn't have much time at the time. Art. 131 of the Constitution in paragraph 1. 2 mentions five situations when a marshal, in the event of the President's office being emptied, can become President. But among these five reasons, there is no indication that the Marshal of the Sejm can become President in the absence of the presidential elections. And we're in this situation. It is up to us whether we hold these presidential elections in constitutional terms, which is until 23 May, or otherwise. In these expertises we've received, there's a dominant aspect... Not much of this, in fact almost all expertise is referring to the health aspect, pointing out that health is the most important thing, etc., etc. I've already mentioned it in my questions, but now I can talk more about it. You remember the announcement by Minister Szumowski, Minister of Health, who announced at the beginning of the pandemic that he would speak on the security of the presidential election in the Easter area on 10 May. And just when he said that in a month's time, in more than a month's time, he would speak in this case, no one questioned his right, his title to speak in this matter. None of you then said that his statement would be immeasurable, that you would not simply take him seriously. Perhaps if the Minister for Health on April 17 had said that the elections on May 10 endanger health safety, he would have been praised by you. And the moment he said it like that... And I'm going to quote it now, because here we've been quoting a few quotes about safety and the fact that there are different forms of voting. With regard to the quote from this statement of April 17, the Minister of Health said that the traditional elections would be safe in two years' time, and if there is no settlement between parties, it would be safe to make correspondence choices, which in this case there would be no contraindications. I repeat, they will be safe. Similarly, with regard to health safety, the World Health Organization, namely the British expert at the European branch of the World Health Organization, Catherine Smallwood, said that the risk of transmission of virus between persons via letters and consignments is low. In this way she answered the question of the Polish Press Agency. And that was a specific question, it was a question about the security of correspondence elections in Poland. As added by the British expert, the way the virus is transmitted is close to human contact. Ladies and gentlemen, we could also mention New York. There, the primary will take place in early June, and they will take place in a correspondence manner. To this you can add arguments with analogy. They're never the best, but you can call South Korea or Bavaria here. Of course, we can also mention what the PKW president said at the meeting of the 3 Joint Committees. And he said this: please, just this Sunday. And we were sitting on Tuesday, which is 2 days later, 21 elections were held in the traditional formula. Well, there was no problem with that. I would also like to add that very often, when there was a lack of health safety, there was a reference, also in these studies, to a certain fact. Well, very often, when it comes to the question of what to do when we have to have a elected president by 6 August, you are referring to the possibility of introducing one of the emergency states. One of the states was mentioned earlier, and now it is specifically referred to the state of the natural disaster. What I'm talking about is that you see the solution here, among other things. because yesterday our committees were discussing a resolution calling on the government to bring about a natural disaster. It'll be a separate point, we'll discuss it. But I would like to point out that the introduction of one of the emergency states now, the state of natural disaster, at a time when the situation is improving, when health safety is greater, would be... Well, if there was a situation that we had an epidemic, but in this state of epidemic, there is one of these elements, one of those disasters that are mentioned in the Act on the State of the Natural Disaster, that is, some landslide, winds, rains, floods, etc., then, of course, one could talk about something like this. But please note that nothing like this has appeared as part of the epidemic. And if any one of you would like to introduce a state of natural disaster, please tell me what of these conditions that are currently in the state of epidemics... which cannot be introduced now and could be introduced in the state of natural disaster. So that I appeal that we do not simply lead to such a situation that after 6 August there will be no president in Poland. Because, well, at a time like this, in the eyes of the world, we'd lose a lot of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Of course, I dare not comment on the Senator's speech, but I will remind you that today there have been 425 new infections, most of them in the last two weeks. That's by the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u157	Mr. Marshal, in replica mode, if you don't mind. In mode... Art. 48 (1) (a) 1, yeah. If you don't mind... Because my name was mentioned here, both by Senator Czerwinski and by Senator Gogach, in the context of the presentation I made. Well, I'm addressing both of you here. Well, I thought the case was obvious and convincing. And as far as Senator Gogach is concerned, he noticed that I might have noticed earlier. Thank you very much for your appreciation, but I can honestly say that I noticed it quite late and I can't help it. That's one thing. Secondly, even if I had noticed this earlier, all these rules exist. Unfortunately, envelope elections in a situation where 30 million Poles can participate in them and theoretically 30 million Poles can send these envelopes... It is simply uncountable and impossible to carry out at a certain time. And as for Senator Czerwinski, who found the art. 10... I, of course, know this article, which says that the Commissioner can increase the number. From the calculations I showed, he would have to increase it repeatedly. 45 people... It would have to increase that number five or six times. You can imagine a committee like this. Where? At the firehouse? Who's the one who calculates all of this? Senator, that's not the point. Well, that's a joke. It's just not like that, it's not that way. It's just not gonna happen, and it's not gonna count.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u158	Thank you very much. Are you Senator Czerwinski? also in the form of a replica, or... No, I'm gonna put all my thoughts into that speech within five minutes. But it's gone. There's no five minutes. You said 16 minutes. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but your marshal, under the influence of Mr. Borowski, has guaranteed us this. I think the pact's broken. But Mr. Marshal is right, it's been 16 minutes. It was said that those who are... Good. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, you're four minutes short by 20 minutes. You need to fit in at that time, and I'm gonna measure it closely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u159	Anything for you, Mr. Marshal. The first issue may not even be related to the replica, but to referring to what Senator Borowski said. Ladies and gentlemen, now it's worse from the marshal's point of view. Because the current state of law allows all of us to vote in correspondence after the age of sixty. I'm talking about the current state of law. If everyone took advantage of this, a few million people, and the same committees would be the ones they watch, so I'll say in quotes, the ballot box in a normal vote, then it would be chaos. You are opting for a solution that is worse from a logistical point of view, blocking this law, of course. Just one key point. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus forced us to act. We can't just be a theoretical state, we're working. There's really a choice here. between two constitutional values: human life and health, in this case voters, and democratic elections. They come into contact at some point and you have to take some specific solutions into account, choose, design. You're not helping us. Look, there are no corrections here. You want to turn down this bill. Let me give you a simple example: delivering electoral packages to the voters. So far it has been so that it was a registered consignment, little of it, it was a receipt by the recipient. Yeah, but now if we want our constituents' life and health to be It is the main link, and we cannot do it in the form of a registered package, either printed or signed at the postman. These are the kind of dilemmas. Maybe there's another way to solve this. You are not helping us in this, it will of course be written down to you. I'm going to put this here, and I'm going to talk about it in a very specific way when I pass the resolution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, until a certain point, I thought you were taking advantage of the state of the election... On the other hand, you want to use the state of the natural disaster to influence the presidential elections, not the other way around. So the reason is that these presidential elections need to be held, and the state of the natural disaster is supposed to be some sort of lockhole, some kind of tool. At the moment, I am convinced that it is the other way around: you are, unfortunately, taking advantage of the opportunity that we need to elect a president, in constitutional terms, and in the time that the constitution is imposing on us, and you want to bring about a natural disaster. Why? Well, so that once again it is possible to milk Poland from finance, from money. I'll prove it to you in the next discussion, in the next speech. Here the cause and effect are quite different. Your employers want to milk Poland again, as they have milked on the occasion of VAT. What? Evidence... We'll prove it, I'll prove it... Unless the marshal gives me 10 minutes now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u160	Mr. Senator, last minute. That's all. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I inform you that Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, Marshal Moravian-Stanecka, Senator Gorgon-Komor, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Małecka-Libera, Senator Wcisła, Senator Matecka, Senator Godyla, Senator Błecherz, Senator Sekuła, Senator Bieda and Senator Mammątów have made a speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that there have been no legislative proposals, so I am announcing a 10 minute break. After the break... now I'm shutting down the vote... Discussion. The discussion is closed. Excuse me, these must be the fatigue effect. The discussion is closed. I am declaring a ten-minute recess. After the break, there will be a vote on this legislative act. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 20 to 21 minutes 32]] Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal... ...we'll proceed to... Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal... Excuse me, who is this? Senator Crack. Mr. Marshal, one vote, please. Oh, please. You haven't reopened your session, I'm sorry, because it's the formula to say... Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for reminding me. But that's not... that's not me. Yes? Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u161	Thank you. I'll make a formal request. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I'd like to request a 15-minute break. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u162	This proposal must be submitted to... Is the motion against it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u163	I'm calling it in, yes. Opposite... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u164	Mr. Marshal, I'm just a word of reason. However, it is a good parliamentary custom, which has always been respected in the Senate, that at the request of the club a break was given. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm just going to say that Senator Martynowski withdrew his request for a two-hour recess earlier, we didn't report this... I mean, we haven't suspended the session for those two hours as we planned... Now we're asking for a literally 15-minute break for the club. No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u165	Mr Senator, I intend to conclude the session after the vote, so that you will have enough time to discuss it. Because there's a vote for a break, there's a vote against... I'm filing a counterclaim right now. ...I have to call a vote. Who's in favor of an adjournment? No, no, no, no, no, Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 35 votes against, 51 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] We therefore proceed, once the session has been resumed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. The formula is spoken. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. I would like to inform you that the joint committees are requesting that it be rejected. The senators present in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 shall vote by pressing the button on the apparatus. The Senators participating in the deliberations are asked to press the button "OK" in order to confirm their willingness to take part in the vote. The decision to take part in the vote will show the voting window with 3 options to choose from. Clicking on one of these lines results in selecting. To vote, please send your decision to the system. For this purpose, press the "Transmit" button or "Submit" button on some tablets in the upper right corner of the window, and approve by pressing the next "Transmit" button when the confirmation window appears. Therefore, please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution, the resolution on rejection. The committees are asking for the rejection of this draft resolution... Laws, laws. Laws. The committees are asking for this bill to be rejected... It's not a project. It's a bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Laws... This isn't a bill yet... Laws... The committees are asking for the bill to be rejected. Is your friend satisfied? Thank you very much. I'm not. I'm not surprised. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm not satisfied. Totally. I'm very disappointed, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's hard to have complexes in life. There you go, we're voting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll say it again. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees, and the resolution states that the committees are asking for the rejection of the bill. Who's in favour of such a project? That's for rejecting it. Who is in favour of rejecting this law, that is, the draft resolution presented by the committees? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 50 votes against, 35 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on special rules for conducting general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow, until 10:00 p.m.... We've got an announcement to make. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-05-senat-10-1.u166	The continuation of the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the review of the Law on the amendment of certain protective measures in relation to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus will take place on 6 May at 8.15 in room 217. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 39]]
