ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u1	God bless you! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Stop with the farce. This is a farce - referring to the imperfections of one of the telephone networks in a situation in which these deliberations are closed, as the whole country is locked up in quarantine, at its own request of the current system of power. This is a farce. Release the nation from quarantine. Start with the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Stop with the rule of law on access to this room, open up the Parliamentary Committees, parliamentary teams. Do not prevent the introduction of the social factor, our fellow countrymen, into the work of the Sejm. And most of all, stop with the farce. Because the announcement, Your Honor, that the work of the Sejm will continue (the bell) is not known exactly when, but we are to take your word for it, that in a moment, and then it does not work, it is a farce. Stop it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u2	I ask you very much to withdraw this proposal because of what you have just learned. It's not the Sejm's fault, and it's not... I am not giving you the floor, sir. I would very much ask you to agree to what the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention have agreed, i.e. the representatives of all of us, so that we can begin our first reading of the important government project that we are all waiting for. I don't agree with you, Marshal. Mr. Chairman, may I have a reaction, please? But we have to vote against it. We cannot vote because not all Members have access... Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin. Therefore, I ask for a moment of reflection, because this is how you will block the House's work, and we all care... Me? Yes, sir, you. You, sir, yes, of course you do. Liberum veto. But first, I will proceed, in a moment, to the vote, to see how many Members there are at this moment, how many Members are attending the session of the Sejm. It says they don't have the code. Okay, sir, I understand perfectly, and that's why I don't want to... That's why we agreed just a moment ago what we agreed. The Member disagrees, but first I will find a quorum. I ask you here, in the Chamber, but also outside the plenary room, and Members who are connected to us remotely, to press any button to establish quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, this vote is closed. I see we have a quorum, but we have 342 Members, which is still a problem. As the Member does not want to withdraw his proposal, I propose that the Convention of Seniors and the Bureau be convened once again. I have another proposal, okay? You're welcome. Wait a minute. In a moment, I will ask you again to check how many Members have logged in. If it turns out that we still have considerable shortcomings, with the agreement of the Seniors Convention, we will proceed with the examination of point 2, the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Energy Law. The clubs have declared that their representatives are prepared for this point. In the meantime, I will keep checking to see if our fellow Members have arrived, if there is no problem, and then we will be back on the agenda. But I understand that if there's a problem, we're doing more than that? Yes, so the next one would be the government's information, the one requested by the Civic Coalition. I ask all your Members here, in the Chamber, in other chambers, and also remotely joining us to press any button again, so that we can check the number of Members who are voting at the moment. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda items. Formal applications. But so far, there's no formality. There are formal requests. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you understood what we said, what we agreed together, that the formal proposals would be voted on when the problem disappeared, right? We're making it now, and then we're voting. Oh, you want to make a statement, and then you want it to be a vote. Okay, we can do that anyway. We can do that. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have here the number of Members who report to the system. In that case... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm just gonna finish this formula, if you don't mind. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the occurrence of drought in Poland, about which the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 requested the presentation. The agenda items of the current sitting of the Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u3	I would like to inform you that one meeting of the committee, the Committee on Public Finance, will be held today at 3 p.m. 14.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u4	Thank you. I just wanted to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this communication may change due to the shift in this situation, which is to follow the communications that will be held at the time of the committee meeting, because this may change. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed with the formal proposals that we will be voting on when this problem disappears. Hopefully as soon as possible. As the first with a formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to interrupt and convene the Seniors Convention in order to complete the agenda for the Prime Minister's information on the preparations for the presidential elections. The truth is that the Members of Law and Justice on TV are happy to talk about elections, and they do not want to discuss it in the Parliament. What are you afraid of? Is it because the OSCE says that elections will be undemocratic, or is it the decision announced by the president of the PKW, saying that they will not be free elections? You get local government officials to break the law, you print the ballots like you did in Pickpocket poker, and cases concerning the legality of the election of the prosecutor die at an express rate. We're making a farce out of democracy. Mrs. Marshal! In the name of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I call on us today or at the next meeting, i.e. within these three days, to vote on this proposal, and all those who do not want to cooperate - do not want to make honest choices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u6	Thank you. We have a request for a recess and a convocation of the Senior Convention. That's one conclusion. Here you go, the second proposal, Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u7	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The request for the adjournment of this sitting until it can take place in a manner not only provided for by the Rules of Procedure, the Law of the Republic of Poland, but also known traditions and known Seym routine. In electronic media, you can read the statement by Marshal Terletki, who occurs either as - I dare rule out such a prospect - an accomplice of problems with connections, or as a lesser prophet who has prophesied that someone may miss out there, someone may not be connected. Read what Marshal Terlecki... Perhaps the marshal will encourage the Homeland Security Agency to see if there's any real fact, this flattering marshal, that Mr. Marshal merely predicted and didn't lead to such problems with connections. Let's not do the Seym meeting... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...the laughingstocks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u8	Thank you, sir. Request for adjournment. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. There you go. Marshal, you can't work in 118. You can't hear anything. I know, my fellow Member. Mrs... You can hear the bubbly, there's an unprepared room that we don't understand a word of what your marshal says. Some gobble, some bubbling. Okay, Member, I accept that. Just a moment ago, I found out that this was a situation. I'm gonna call a break in a minute. There's no speakers, and it's all just... Roger that, Member. Yeah, I took that information. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Also in accordance with Article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask on behalf of the Coalition Poland club to order a break and to convene the Convention of Seniors with a view, which I warned at the Monday's remote meeting of the Convention, to extend the agenda for consideration of a resolution already notified almost a month ago by our club, calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to introduce a state of natural disaster by the Sejm. A brief statement of reasons. In the document, in the draft law, which we will see today, i.e. the so-called. Shield 3, in the justification for changing the mode of appointment of the National Council of Prosecutors, the government writes: in order for the elections to take place as safely as possible, the time to carry them out was set at 90 days from the date of the end of the epidemic or epidemic. Why do you care about prosecutors, not ordinary citizens? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have the same right to safety as the prosecutors of Zbigniew Ziobra. Thank you. [[Applause]] Jacek, don't scream.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u10	Thank you, sir, but you can hear everything, you can hear it really well. We have another request for a recess. Last motion, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u11	Dear Marshal! I ask that the agenda be supplemented by a draft by the Civic Coalition. This project concerns the testing of social services workers, other permanent care facilities, health care establishments, private institutions and hospices. This project, ladies and gentlemen, is already complex. Your marshal has a tendency lately to put even projects that don't have a seym number on the agenda. That's what happened to the government project. I appeal to your marshals to complete the agenda for the Civic Coalition project, which is complex. It concerns all persons employed in permanent care facilities, and also directly affects the residents of these institutions. We believe that every week all workers in these most vulnerable places of permanent residence of senior citizens should be tested. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the other thing. If we open, your Marshal, the 4th May shopping galleries, daycare centres or cultural institutions, I call for the next sitting of the Sejm to be held under normal conditions, not the Remote Sejm, which is, as you can see, very fragile, but under normal conditions of the physical presence of Members in the House of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u12	Thank you very much, sir. I will comment on these conclusions when we move on to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have many Members yet, so we are waiting. Therefore, we move on to what we agreed at the Senior Convention, which is to move on to item 2. There's already a service in room 118 that solves the problem. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the Government draft law amending the Act - Energy Law (prints No. 269 and 321). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee. Is Marek Suski present? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, but I got here from the other room where I voted. It's a little hard to breathe in this mask. You can take it off. Can I take it off? Okay, thank you very much. I'll be able to catch my breath. You can come back to life. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the committee's report to the government's draft amendment to the Act - Energy Law, Print No. 269 and 321. This is a project. concerns the harmonisation of the legal regime for all pipelines crossing the border of the Republic of Poland, whether they connect Poland with the gas system of a Member State of the European Union and the EFTA, or a non-Participant of any of these agreements, and ensuring uniform application of European Union law to such infrastructure. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a project adapting Polish law to European Union law. This is also due to the fact that Poland has requested that such solutions be adopted in the European Union. We did it, they were accepted. This will include all gas connections with the countries of the European Union, whether they are Union countries or outside the Union, whether it is a pipeline, a Russian pipeline connecting with the European Union, whether they are Polish pipelines connecting with Lithuania, Slovakia or other countries neighbouring us. Ladies and gentlemen! An amendment was also tabled to the bill. It's about the amendment to the article. 1. This is an amendment concerning the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The aim is to eliminate the question of interpretation as to whether the issue of conditions for connection or the conclusion of a cogeneration unit's connection to a gas transmission network or distribution network constitutes an investment decision within the meaning of Article. 2 point 3a of the Act, which would make it impossible to comply with the so-called law. the incentive effect. A short vacathio legis was also proposed for this change, as this is a regulatory adjustment. The aim is to allow these procedures to take place in accordance with the amended rules as soon as possible at the forthcoming auctions and in the recruitment process. The effect of the amendment will be to change the name of the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen! At the committee's meeting, the discussion was quite lively, for the conditions hindered by remote procedures. A number of different types of comments were submitted, but in general the vast majority were in favour of supporting this proposal with the amendments. There were also doubts about the Energy Regulatory Office as to whether such amendments were justified. Here's the answer. The reply was provided to the members of the committee from the President of the office of Dr. Eng. Rafała Gavina. In my opinion, I quote that the proposed change is justified and will serve to develop cogeneration based on gas fuels in the country. The draft amendment was previously agreed with the Energy Regulatory Office. This resolves the doubts raised at the committee meeting. Therefore, I ask the High House to accept this project because it is necessary for the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u14	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to express my opinion on the bill submitted together with the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is needed by the Polish economy, it needs to be adopted as soon as possible. It adapts Polish legislation to European Union legislation, as I have already said as the rapporteur of the committee. The Law and Justice Club will support this project along with the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u16	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Pontylius, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019. The rapporteur was the Prime Minister, MEP Jerzy Buzek. The fact that this directive, which we are implementing in the Polish legal order, looks like this today, is his merit, he took part in the night negotiations between the Council, the Commission and Parliament. The effect of this directive on Poland, especially from the point of view of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, is positive. It must be made clear, however, that a number of matters currently ruling in Poland have been abandoned. Firstly, they failed to implement this directive as soon as possible, because the Directive says that Member States should implement this by 24 February. There was plenty of time before the outbreak. It is interesting that the government, which has said so many critical words, often rightly, about investment Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2, and the political formation of Law and Justice are so slow to implement the directive that concerns this investment. These regulations have been strongly questioned in the European forum and, therefore, very interestingly, this dual voice between the representatives of law and justice in the government and in the European Parliament. I would like to remind you that the Polish Government supported the introduction of this directive, but it is strange that all parliamentarians of Law and Justice, like one husband, abstained from voting on this directive. That's very interesting. It is possible that the mess is within the government, between the Ministry of Energy and the government's proxy for strategic energy infrastructure. However, if Nord Stream 2 is a hot spot, it is the eye in the head, why and at the level of the European Parliament, and at the level of Polish implementation you do everything wrong, not so that this directive will work quickly and so, among others. Did she protect Polish interests? In the context of this implementation of European law, there is a revision of the Act on the promotion of high-efficiency cogeneration electricity. A very strange situation, because it does not in any way refer to the directive. Does this mean that the Polish government has some new proposals to solve the problems arising from the wrong decisions of Minister Tchórzewski to build an energy block in Ostrołęka and is now trying to establish this block on the gas? Maybe it would be worth a little longer in the Polish Parliament to talk about how the government sees it. And here, quietly, the back door is being amended by a law which has nothing to do with this directive. This directive, its introduction, also shows that Law and Justice often like to speak, the politicians of Law and Justice like to talk about the fact that the European institutions are actually wearing the belt of Germans. It is worth noting, therefore, that this directive is precisely the German interests, especially those relating to Nord Stream 2, which are severely strained. This is also a lie to the thesis that law and justice politicians have shown for many years that the European Commission, the European institutions, are only acting under the dictation of the German State. And now the question about you getting off your knees, because you talk about it a lot. The question arises as to how the Polish government intends to influence the European Commission when Gazprom's request to exclude Nord Stream 2's investment from the operation of the directive is addressed to the German regulator, because I would remind you that these investments, which have been completed, even in the European part, before May 2019, have the right to escape this directive, which clearly describes the obligations of the owner of this pipeline and allows access by third parties. In short, the left doesn't know what the right is doing. I urge the representatives of the Ministry of Energy to try to make a general summary of what they want in energy, both in gas and in electricity, which is still a challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u18	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude this vote, which means checking the quorum. I can see all the time that we're getting Members. It may still take, as the operator says, from a dozen to a few dozen minutes. So I'm closing up. - this isn't a vote-- checking how many of us we are. The point is that Members can log in again because they get the codes. So I'm shutting down this vote. I would like the floor of Mr Dariusz Wieczork, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the bill presented concerns the amendment of the Act - Energy Law in the field of gas transmission lines. This is a direct implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament, which was adopted in 2019. As Mr Suski said, it is indeed a directive that is very beneficial and is ordering the whole system at the level of the European Union. On the other hand, the question arises as to why we are implementing the directive into Polish law so late. In my opinion, the Minister, who presented his arguments at the committee meeting... They weren't exactly convincing. The arguments were this: and these were elections, and this was constituted by the Polish government, and this was a pandemic - so we did not have time to implement it. I draw attention to the fact that energy law - and energy in general - is an important area, and therefore very fast action by the Polish government is needed so that we do not miss anything when it comes to both gas and electricity. So the question arises as to whether the Polish government really has the entire energy sector under control. Let me remind you that in the plans of the Polish government, the legislative and programme work plan of the Council of Ministers for the first quarter of this year was the issue of the change of energy law, not only in this area, which we discussed and which is mentioned here, but definitely and much wider. After all, in the Energy Law we need to raise issues concerning perhaps greater supervision by the Energy Regulatory Office, issues of energy storage, issues related to the clarification of the definition of the energy market participant. These are things that the industry and the gas industry have been pointing to for many, many years, but unfortunately nothing is happening in this case. In addition to the Energy Law, there is also a need to amend many other laws in this area, such as the power market and the power market law. There, simple legislative measures can generate savings of about PLN 1 billion in the energy sector. We have an amendment to the Act on Electromobility and the launch of this process at all. For now, we're just changing the entry dates without solving any real problems. A very important issue is the issue of making investments in gas and energy networks in general, so the issue of the law on transmission corridors, which has already been discussed in the previous term, for many years. But from these discussions nothing results and the losses incurred by Gaz-System or Polish energy networks today amount to hundreds of millions of PLN due to the prolonged investment deadlines. There is also, of course, a law on renewable energy sources. That's what we discussed here, too. I draw attention to one thing, namely that there is no energy policy by 2040. I know that this entry is included in the work plans of the committees and government plans, but I will remind you that we have been working on this policy since 2018 and it is 2020. We do not have Poland's energy policy, therefore today energy imports are historic on the national scale, because in 2019 we imported electricity from other countries for more than PLN 2 billion. This shows that we have problems in terms of generation capacity, we have problems in terms of the functioning of energy. Therefore, today there is a great organizational chaos and investment chaos in energy. What's the reason? Our grades are very simple. Firstly, receiving people connected only and exclusively with a governing group who have no knowledge of gas and have no knowledge of energy, take salaries and, in short, are often like the famous yeti: everyone knows that they are employed, but nobody sees them in these companies. Secondly, lack of competence in management. Let me just remind you - so we refer to the times of communism - that in times of communism, in order to be promoted, two conditions had to be fulfilled: to have competence and party legitimacy. Today I feel that unfortunately only party ID is sufficient. These are decisions that cause us to have a lot of problems when it comes to investments such as the Ostrołęk plant, the question of the takeover of Orlen by Energa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are things worth discussing. In conclusion, I would like to say that the left club will support the proposed bill, but we are calling on the government to, in short, get on with its work in the energy sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mieczysław Kasprzak, remotely. You're welcome. We have to wait a minute because we're connected. There's a problem. We have some technical problems with the connection to your Member. I have been informed that Mr Winnicki has resigned. Therefore, we move on to questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Coalition, will be the first to ask the question... Your marshal, I'm still speaking here. Excuse me. Mr President, there is news to the secretariat that you have resigned at all, but since you have come, please. Mr Robert Winnicki, on behalf of the Confederation's Circle of Posel.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill was created because there is no basic principle in the European Union that should constitute this community, this supposed community. It is about solidarity, solidarity between states in the face of the most important, major challenges. There is no solidarity because the largest country, hegemon of the European Union, the Federal Republic of Germany, contrary to the interests of all Central European countries, is pushing further pipelines, Nord Stream 2, putting its national interest ahead of the interests of smaller countries. That's a fact. Especially today, when the Coronavirus epidemic tells us how much depends on national states and when national states are fighting for their interests in the European Union, for their safety, for their fight against the epidemic, it is a fact that makes us aware that the basic assumption on which the European Union is based is simply not working. For several years now, there has been a struggle to force solidarity on Germans on a key issue, on energy security issues, and they are in line with their national interests, which they perceive contrary to the interests of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. That's one thing. This really puts into question the entire rhetoric of round-top groups that pushed the European Union, which pushed Poles into the European Union, but also today, also under the rule of law and justice, are constantly strengthening the centralist drives of Brussels. That's one thing. Secondly, it also lies to the entire rhetoric of the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, which has been bragging for many years, as it has good relations in the West, just in Brussels, in Berlin. It turns out that these good relations with Brussels or Berlin are only one way, i.e. Today Poland as a sub-contractor of the German economy, today Poland as a chandelier for years, since the Treaty of Lisbon at least, the centralist policy of the Federal Republic of Germany - it is all one way. It's all one way, because when it comes to our business, we have to extort Germans. We must force the Germans and, of course, we will see with what effectiveness. We will see with what effectiveness, because for now, regardless of what the European Commission can push through. The third issue is the issue of energy and energy security of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out here that any action aimed at gas diversification is necessary, desirable and, in principle, we support government action in this area. Energy diversification. But energy diversification, among others. diversification of gas supply means we won't change... He's not gonna change his ax to a stick. This means that we will not go from total dependence on the eastern direction to total dependence on the western direction, and we will not yet draw energy sources from the Gulf region, for example, and I will remind you that oil, for example. from Iran, which has already affected... The first attempts to supply energy resources from Iran have been blocked for political reasons, due to the political pressure of the United States of America. Today, in the era of these huge tectonic shifts that we see on the international stage, Poland needs multi-vector policy not only on the basis of foreign policy. Today Poland needs real diversification and thinking not only about how to become independent from Moscow, how to become independent and take away this blackmail gun, this blackmail gas gun from Moscow, but also from the West, how to become independent from the other side, because we do not know what political, economic or military challenges will give us the future. Today it is a challenge of Polish foreign policy and we also call on the government to conduct this multi-vector policy, both on the basis of diplomacy and on the basis of raw materials policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u22	Thank you very much. Since in the meantime we have managed to connect with Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Kasprzak. Come on in. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u23	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone. Very welcome. I'm sorry for the trouble, but for a few minutes we worked hard with the services to get this connection. I don't know if you can hear me right, 'cause I hear a reverb just a few times. If you can hear me wrong, stop. Well, speaking... Mr. President, I'm sorry. There's a reverb. You've got some other device on there. Turn your voice off, sir. Turn off your speaker. Loudspeaker, please turn it off. I'll turn my speaker off. Yeah, maybe I'll go over the headphones. I'm gonna go headphones. Can you hear me right now? Hello? Hello? Yeah, great. I think it's okay now, 'cause that reverb is over. I can't hear anything so far. I can hear you, but he can't see us. Now you can't hear the Member at all. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think it's okay now. That's how it is. Hello again, and I'm sorry, everyone, but that's the way it is with technology. Can you even hear me now? Can you hear me? Yes, sir, you are very well heard. Go ahead. That's very good. Thank you very much. Some unlucky day today, Marshal. Well, hello again, everyone. Please speak freely, sir. Something's going wrong here. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to say this: the directive... About... Mr President, please remove your headphones, because this complicates your speech. We will support these solutions as the Polish People's Party. That's it? Can you hear me now? It's very good to hear. Very good. Let's say hello again. Oh, now you should hear me. I turned off the speaker completely. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Polish People's Party will support these solutions, although we are already late in implementing the European Union directive. Half of the countries in the European Union have already signed a directive that is intended to give the possibility of common coordination of transmission lines, pipelines not only in the countries of the European Union, but also those that come from outside the European Union and pass through the countries of the Community. This is important in the context of, for example, the construction of a pipeline Nord Stream 2 and other transmission lines, major transmission arteries. We know all the problems our country has had before... We have spoken publicly on this subject, we know the European Union's attitude. The European Union has adopted a directive on 17 April 2019 and we are to implement it. Half of the countries have already implemented this directive, including the German side. Germany implemented this into its legislation, with the fact that two days after the adoption by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury of the draft law, after the debate in the committee, we were able to meet a commentary from Russia, which is actually pressing, insists on the German side to exclude Germany from the obligation of this directive. This is very incomprehensible and very uncertain. In this case, I think it is a more intentive directive, but each of us would like to see full compliance with this directive. The pressures and interests of Russia are known in Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Relations... Something stopped me. The agreement between Russia and Germany on gas supply has also been known to us all for many years. It is important that today Europe is starting to diversify gas supply in different directions. I think that in the future, what has already been started several years or maybe several years ago will be effective. Therefore, such panicky behaviour of Russia and an attempt to interfere with European Union legislation. We will support this project. He is favorable, at least intentionally, for Poland. On the other hand, this amendment, which was introduced in respect of cogeneration, because one additional element outside this implementation was introduced - Article. Two to this bill. I think that's a good thing, too. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Polish People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much, Marshal, and I'm sorry for the disturbance, but it's not my fault. I think today is kind of a bad day.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. We came to work under these conditions. These aren't conditions that depend on us. Thank you very much. That's where we ended our club appearances. Let's get to the questions. I close the list of Members willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Ms Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's talk about energy. At yesterday's meeting of the European Union Council on Minister Kurtyka spoke about the need for security of energy supply or a greater share of renewable energy in Poland. And you're very right. But there's so much theory in the minister's mouth. Unfortunately, in practice, instead of negotiating billions of euros from the Fair Transformation Fund, the climate minister was looking for a way to make our energy dependent on foreign, expensive gas. The Minister said: for Poland gas is the fastest possible path to reduce emissions and improve air quality. Minister, do you have any gas investments? are they really the fastest and cheapest path to reducing emissions and building energy independence? Absolutely not. We don't have Polish gas. Imported gas is much more expensive than the Polish wind and Polish sun. Does not help reduce CO2 emissions Minister, do you want to waste our decades pushing Polish energy, which is already on the verge of bankruptcy, from expensive Polish coal to even more expensive non-Polish gas? It doesn't make any sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u26	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland was obliged to implement the EU Directive of 17 June 2019. The time to implement the Directive was almost a year, i.e. until 24 February 2020. However, the Polish government did not ensure that, in due time, the implementation of regulations that give Polish energy companies the opportunity to benefit from the relief, but also the creation of a common internal market for gas trade. My question is: Is it because the implementation deadlines have been exceeded, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish energy companies will not lose relief, exemptions from certain obligations? That's the first line. Second line. If they do not lose, why do Polish companies have only 7 days to submit an application for exemption according to the provisions of the Act? Especially in the context of a world pandemic, especially in the context of such a difficult time. Thank you very much. Madame, it's time. We had a year to implement, and we give Polish companies 7 days to benefit from the relief. That's attention. about Polish companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u28	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This has already been mentioned: in February the time for transposition of the provisions of this Directive into national order expired. As usual, the Law and Justice showed respect for European law and was late in implementation. Even on this issue, you couldn't implement the rules in time. But maybe it's a smaller thing. The important thing is something else. This discussed bill, which, as the secretary of the club Dariusz Wieczorek rightly pointed out, will be supported by the Left, is only a piece of something much bigger, i.e. simply the energy policy of Poland until 2040. This policy must be created with the participation of all parliamentary forces in Poland. It is extremely important that later it can be realized regardless of whether the Law and Justice rule or the Left rule. This must be a pillar of reducing emissions and achieving climate neutrality. My question is this: Is the government planning a broad consultation (Bingle) on Poland's energy policy until 2040? Will this be implemented beyond political divisions? When will there be a public consultation and when will there be a broad public debate on this document, which is still in its infancy and is still just a project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to quote some data. Energy prices in 2015 amounted to PLN 11 billion and now energy is sold for PLN 3 billion. These are huge price drops. This also applies to other companies and energy companies: PGE, Tauron and Enea. Isn't that a reason to think about why Polish energy is losing so much, and shouldn't we really implement today the overall energy concept, the overall plan that we've already talked about? We don't have that. We're on episodes. We're working as if we're laying tracks on a 500-mile section about every 3 km and there's no connection between one and the other. I would like to know if and when we will finally organise (the bell) our energy policy in such a way that it has arms and legs. Let me remind you, we don't even have the energy ministry today. There's no such thing as the energy ministry today. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u32	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Katarzyna Ueberhan, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The internal energy market based on common principles has been established within the European Union since 1999. We have common objectives, but also common challenges, such as reducing emissions, such as ensuring security of supply, but also price competitiveness, or guaranteeing the real choice of each energy customer whether it is an entrepreneur or a citizen. What the government has now put forward is the introduction of European Union law, the alignment of national law with European Union law. Therefore, I have a question: How many countries have already been implemented in which Member States of the European Union and to what extent has this Directive been implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u34	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u35	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a European rule, a rule that will have, as we can read in the impact assessment, a positive impact on the development of competition in the natural gas market, will increase the competitiveness of the economies of the Member States, including the Polish economy, and will finally increase the security of supply of natural gas to Poland. These are tangible benefits, but in this OSR you assume that you will not carry out an evaluation of this project, that there will be no ex post OSR. What does that mean? That you are afraid that in black and white you will see what benefits really come from Poland's belonging to the European Union in such a small fragment. I don't see any reasonable reasons why the OSR ex post shouldn't be prepared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to clarify this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u37	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The Polish reason is to prepare a long-term, at least 30-year strategy for Polish energy, which will take into account today the rise in energy and transmission prices, coal issues, millions of tons of Polish coal, which lies on the heaps, issues of challenges such as cogeneration, renewable energy or climate neutrality. We do not have an answer to these questions, but there is a clear point today in the implementation of our Prime Minister and former President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek. By its own initiative, it has led to the preparation of a European regulation that eliminates Gazprom's monopoly on transmission prices. Thanks to this we have full control of prices, the competitiveness of transmission and full transparency, so as not to lead to such a situation that reception, the price of gas in Germany is higher than in Poland. This directive is a manifestation of solidarity, for which it is a great thanking to Prime Minister Buzek. To the extent that even Germany has agreed under pressure to implement this directive. The external country, Norway, which also supplies gas, has also adopted solutions to European law. The fact that Gazprom protested by submitting to the TSUE (the bell) only indicates that it is in the interests of the European Union. Therefore, I ask: Why is Poland the last country implementing a delayed directive into Polish law? I don't get it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u39	Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The phrase of restoring sovereignty in the field of energy reigns in this room. We would like to see really competent people here when we talk about energy, with all due respect to the Minister, the rapporteur. Superminister, or maybe even Super Prime Minister Obajtek would be welcome, because when it comes to everything that is going on in this industry, these are things that not only in the Council of Ministers office, in the Presidential Palace, but maybe even in Nowogrodzka some are too short, and President Obajtek knows what he is doing. The question is, did he know what he was doing when he led Orlen to take over energy, which puts the Polish energy and fuel sector at risk of hostile takeover. Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth talking more about in this room. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's picking up the vending machine, your marshal's taking my voice, so I'm done bowing down. I'm waiting for President Obejtek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u40	I don't speak, it's just time's up. It was squealing, but I didn't turn your microphone off, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the European Energy Law Directive is very important because it provides legal certainty for market participants. However, when these changes are made, it is necessary to ask about diversification of energy sources, which should consist in significantly increasing participation in the Polish mix of energy from renewable sources at the expense of reducing the share of coal and lignite. According to Eurostat, and these are the latest studies, i.e. from 2018 and 2019, the share of renewables in energy production in Poland was slightly over 11% compared to the 15% target the European Union puts forward by 2020. In the perspective, this will be an even greater share. I therefore ask you in writing to answer the question which government is planning legislative changes to expand green energy sources when they are submitted to the Sejm and whether public hearings are planned on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Energy is a very important area of the economy, which also demonstrates our independence. Today, I would expect the government to also present Polish energy in terms of the future of coal, especially green energy, because European funds need to be used. There is no need to cut it off, there is no need to fight for European funds, because nothing will change here. It can actually use these funds to increase electricity production just from green energy. And another thing. The electricity prices in Poland are very, very high. It is disturbing that we import a lot of this energy. Today I miss a vision about the future of Polish energy. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in the global economy, it's not enough to wave a saber. Today, we need to talk. both in the economic and political sphere, and this shows good contacts in the European Union and this (the Bell) that even difficult projects are to be carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Janusz Kowalski, Minister for Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In order to clarify the full knowledge, I would like to remind Mr Pontylius and Mr Boris that the Parliament and Council directive we are discussing today, so-called. The Anti-Nord Stream Directive is an absolute and exclusive success of the United Right Government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, [[Applause]] who have placed this matter within the European Union in an absolutely consistent manner. Ha, ha. You'll have to confess later. I just want to say one thing. We are, of course, pleased that Mr Buzek loyally supported our demands in the European Union, and of course I encourage you to learn from Prof. Jerzy Buzek as politicians of the Civic Platform. As for Polish-German relations, it is indeed so that on September 10, 2019. Poland won a dispute before the Court of Justice of the European Union with the European Commission concerning the monopolization of the OPAL pipeline, the land branch of the gas pipeline Nord Stream, and I would like to say that the Germans have actually challenged this judgment at a higher level, undermining the principle of energy solidarity (the bell). If you want to help Poland, ask your colleagues from the CDU not to question the principle of energy solidarity and not to judge with Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask the government's representatives a question. What results from the price of energy from Polish coal? Whether this is really the result of the price of extraction, transmission or high prices of CO2 emission allowances And the other thing. In what form did the European Union break the Kyoto Convention, which showed that Poland consumes more carbon dioxide thanks to forests, agriculture and green areas than it emits? Is it that there is a religion that forces the destruction of coal and thus the Polish economy, or is it about saving the climate, where it is about absorbing more carbon dioxide (the bell) than we are emitting it? And Poland meets these criteria, while other countries of the European Union do not meet this and for them it is inconvenient. Thank you. The principle of the Kyoto Convention has therefore been amended in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u49	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the EU directive, but the public is also interested in the issue that was raised out loud. The largest bulk carrier in the history of Polish ports came to Gdansk a few days ago and brought coal from Colombia. We bring coal from all continents, except Antarctica. I would like to ask the Minister exactly about this transport and about the coal that was imported from Colombia. I would also like to remind the High House that in the last two years we have brought to Poland more than 35 million tons of hard coal with a total value of PLN 14 billion. Most, because almost 23 million t - Russia. Is this the right direction for energy policy? In a situation where Poland has coal reserves for more than six months, shouldn't the Material Reserve Agency focus on matters related to the provision of safety in an epidemic state at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u50	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate will speak on behalf of the Government. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the Government's position on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. As discussed in the plenary room on the draft law, the proposal aims to implement a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, so-called. Gas Directive on pipeline Nord Stream, Nord Stream 2. A few facts, also referring to the questions that you, Members and Members of Parliament, have been kind to ask. It is above all information that it is an initiative of the government of the Republic of Poland, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and later Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It was the Polish Government, the Government of Law and Justice that sought to implement and adopt this directive within the European Union. In 2017, during the Romanian Presidency, it was possible to bring this issue to Parliament, but earlier, during the Austrian and Bulgarian Presidency, this directive was blocked. Referring to my esteemed colleague, Minister Janusz Kowalski, we must say that we very much appreciate the role of Professor Jerzy Buzek, who, as chairman of the Energy Commission in the European Parliament, supported the efforts of the Polish Government and thus succeeded. The Directive was adopted on 17 April 2019. On the other hand, as regards the allegations made here concerning the implementation of the directive not on time, I would like to ask the honourable Members of the Parliament... I also heard Mr Boris here, who with great certainty stated that Poland as the last country... Well, I am informing the High House that, to date, six Member States of the European Union have implemented the Gas Directive. Poland is the seventh country that is currently implementing this implementation, so that we are not the last, is quite good. On the other hand, the delay results from the fact that this law is in a government proposal and as such requires a full legislative path and, in addition, as an implementation of the Directive, arrangements. We need to agree on that, as you know. Minister Paweł Pontylius has experience in the work of the government, so he should remember that this requires agreement with the European Commission on the text of the law, the content of the law. The Directive entered into force in June. There was too little time until the parliamentary elections in autumn Ub. In order to complete implementation, the procedure is so constructed that after the elections we must start this procedure again. The subsequent events, unfortunately also related to the outbreak of Coronavirus, have caused us to have a slight delay, but they are minimal and no sanctions are threatening us for this reason. In answer to some of the key questions that have been formulated here, it is very interesting to hear Mr Robert Winnicki's statement. Indeed, it must be noted that the European Union has a problem with the fundamental value of solidarity in the European dimension. And also the action of the Federal Republic of Germany in relation to the willingness, with the announcement of an exemption from the Gas Directive, shows that we will have to take action in this regard. On the other hand, the implementation of this directive also gives the Polish regulator, the Energy Regulatory Office, the possibility to challenge such a decision by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, if such a decision is taken, to the Court of Justice. And we will certainly do that. A few words about the directive. Namely, it gives third parties the power to join a possible cross-border pipeline and excludes the possibility that the gas pipeline owner is also a gas supplier, as Gazprom in the case of (The Bell) Nord Stream. This isn't gonna happen. This pipeline, the regulation of this pipeline, will be governed by European law. I would also like to stress that all the cross-border pipelines that are going through Poland at the moment are governed by European law. I'm so sorry, we're running out of time. Mr Marek Suski, chairman of the committee, is also very right about the European Commission's breach of the Kyoto Protocol or more broadly by the European Union. Different deadlines have been adopted here, namely the calculation of CO2 emissions since 2005, not since 1988, as stipulated by the Kyoto Protocol. Other burdens have also been imposed on the Member States of the European Union. But what is extremely important, I ask you, what is worth knowing to the public: Poland as a party, as a Member State, could fight for derogations, for derogations regarding those conditions imposed by the European Union under the ETS system, but the policy of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, namely Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, was unfortunately incompatible with the Polish interest and led to excessive disproportionate burdens on the Polish economy in relation to conditions such as. France or Germany. Minister, time's up. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: Today, in the event of the outbreak of Coronavirus, we are also facing an opportunity to resume action on this issue, and the Polish side will propose... I do not want to talk about details at the moment, because it is a project, but the Polish side will propose a new solution for the regulation of the ETS so that it is fairer and more effective. That's it for now. Time's up. I can see I've crossed quite a bit. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Marek Suski, asked for the floor. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members who worked on this project very warmly, because despite the political differences, we all agreed that this is a solution that would benefit our country. I hope that the vast majority will accept it. I also wish the government a swift implementation. In fact, I wanted to speak in case there were amendments. But there are no amendments, so I'm gonna put an end to this. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u54	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you all for taking part in the discussion. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I am now in charge of a 10-minute recess, after which we will proceed to the announced votes. Thank you very much. 10 minutes off. But what point do we make? We will vote on the opposition to the 1st point and the formal proposals. If we reject the objection, is it COVID or cross-border? COVID, if we take the objection into account. So that time-out - 10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 47 hrs. 13 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, since all Members should already have the codes, we will start by checking the quorum. I therefore ask all Members present in the plenary room, outside the plenary room and joining us remotely to press any button to verify the quorum. You're welcome. I'm gonna need the results. The meeting shall be attended by 439 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. In view of the opposition raised to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to the draft law on printing No 344 and 344-And we will settle this matter in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 275 - for, 41 - against, 129 stopped. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. A formal request for adjournment was submitted by the Left Club. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 217 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The request for a break submitted on behalf of the Coalition Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 by Mr Protasiewicz will not be put to the vote because it is identical to the request for a break and has already been voted out, while the request for supplementing the agenda submitted by Mr Szczerba will not be put to the vote because it is an irregular proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain protective measures in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (prints No 344 and 344-A). I ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Łukasz Schreiber to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u55	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present the justification for the bill we called the cover project. This is actually a further addition to our crisis shield. I am pleased that the High House will be able to sit on this project. I would like to present this project as follows to show that we actually have concrete changes to make it easier for entrepreneurs, or perhaps more broadly: to facilitate job saving. This is the second such important set of facilitations for citizens. After 10 of these most important issues from this bill, I will allow myself to briefly discuss, and also a few other passages that go beyond this state of affairs. I'll start with entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that the project assumes that for self-employed people, as the amendments in the Senate adopted the High Chamber, it is possible to move to parking without a maximum amount of income at the level of three national averages, i.e. ca. 15 600. Now we are introducing such an impulse to encourage activity so that they can actually continue their work. Many entrepreneurs said: I have a situation in which my income is up to 30 and 40 thousand. zł, but my income is just today $2,000, $3,000. or 4,000. zł. So if this income isn't higher than 7,000. PLN, and on a yearly basis it's 84,000, that's about the first tax threshold. If this income isn't higher than 7,000. zł, and the revenue was exceeded by as much as 15 600, they will be able to benefit from the exemption from the Social Security Office. Here, too, an important point that involves this: this does not exclude anyone, no group that has been subject to this exemption will be excluded. Second thing. We are correcting this obvious mistake of senate legislators who, without the consent of the applicants, turned in an amendment in one place on 1 April to 1 February and self-employed, those who founded their companies in February and March this year, fell out of the possibility of wider coverage of the shield. So we're extending it to April 1. Moreover, the government will ask that the High House also adopt an amendment which would ensure not only self-employed but also, in fact, all entrepreneurs who started the company in February and March, that the anti-crisis shield will be extended to them not only as regards the Social Security Office, but also other mechanisms for saving jobs. The third change is the exemption from the Social Security Office for those who benefited from the start-up allowance and started their business activity. For April and May, they will be granted this exemption. The fourth change, technical, but for some, is the abolition of a rule blocking the accounting of adjustments to the billing documents in the payer's accounts. It's about those months off. The fifth change is an investment impulse, launching 900 million for the Industrial Development Agency. We cannot afford to stop investment today. The government is trying to do everything it can to keep them going, i.e. recently there was even an announcement of the Self-Government Road Fund, recently it was the opening and settlement of successive stages of the construction of national roads on certain sections, as in the S5. The investments must continue, and we want to give an additional boost, the 900 million PLN. The sixth case, probably smaller than many mentioned, but also important, especially for the transport industry - reducing the inspection time by the Road Transport Inspection, smaller forms, much shorter time for the drivers controlled. The seventh change, which entrepreneurs wanted very much, is a matter of foreigners, i.e. extending the validity of mandatory documents for those who work in Poland - of course - legally, and also helping them if necessary when they are in quarantine. Next, the eighth amendment concerns the organisation (the bell) of public benefit. Those organisations, if they have benefited from PFRON funding for workers, have not been eligible to benefit from a number of mechanisms contained in the crisis shield. Now we want to make sure of that. The ninth amendment is to align the signature of a trusted signature with the signature qualified for the time of the Coronavirus pandemic, to align this signature, especially when it comes to all the mechanisms involved in saving jobs. The tenth issue that can be said is the extension of reporting deadlines, information obligations, e.g. the scope of the waste database register - this is extended until the end of the year. That's the ten business cases. I'm gonna move on to 10 things that are important to the citizens. I'll probably start with one of the most important ones. These are questions about usury, and in fact anti-Liquid records. Some of them were included in the crisis shield in the first project, such as the establishment of maximum interest and non-interest costs for the first year and the following years. So if this period is up to a year, it's 21%. over a year - 45%. Now we're putting in more mechanisms. The first one is that we want to protect the property. The transfer of property today is often absolutely outrageous. Contracts are often concluded which mislead those who contain them, who benefit from their ignorance. It happens that in the situation in Gdansk itself, in this case which is being investigated, we have 1500 notarial acts created in a scandalous manner. For the sum of PLN 33 million - I am only talking about the Gdansk thread - people were deceived. So we want - and so constitute those provisions - lead to a situation where, when a natural person enters into an agreement with an entrepreneur or with another natural person, there are precise conditions to be extended to that effect. Yes, property may be transferred, but the amount of the loan to be taken will have to be at least 80% of the value of the property to be determined by the valuer. The second change in these anti-Liquidity records is the possibility of execution, if the value of the claim is at least 1/20 of the secured item. The point is that in a situation - and this also happened - where we also have property, for example. An apartment worth several hundred thousand, for some debt of 2,3 thousand. could have just been executed. Securing this situation is a clear benefit for citizens, especially at this difficult time, to eliminate a number of pathologies. Finally, we are restoring the rule that was in force in 2006 and 2011, which for incomprehensible reasons was then eliminated, i.e. a penalty penalty from 3 months to 5 years in a situation where we are dealing with an unfair, of course, lender who tries to force more than twice as much payment - he demands such payment - than a maximum amount legally determined. And also an important thing, in addition to these records, namely the amount free of execution for the family, we increase by 25% for each non-working person who is dependent on other family members. It's also, it seems, a significant change. The second thing is to unfreeze the economy. Today, the Prime Minister spoke about the next stages. So far, a number of judicial administrative decisions have been blocked. We want to unleash this, so we put in place a provision that all these provisions will apply within 7 days of the date of the entry into force of the Law. The third case concerns the maintenance fund. Today, 800 PLN per person in the family is planned. We raise this amount to 900 PLN per person in the family. At the same time, we're introducing a cashier's mechanism for a cashier's fee. The fourth issue, perhaps small, but probably often annoying to many Poles, concerns the post office. A much easier form of obtaining this power of attorney is foreseen. The fifth case concerns the electronicisation of legal advice. Today they can often not be done because there are no records allowing these advice to be given online. At the same time, we have already agreed, we want to encourage the High House, and earlier Members in committee, I hope that there will be an amendment so that these legal advices can be used by self-employed people. It's been impossible so far. The sixth amendment concerns the lack of interest for tax return by citizens at a later date. The seventh amendment aims to shift the solidarity tribute. The eighth amendment concerns student loans. We have made it possible, after the Senate has tabled amendments, to suspend them for this period, but we also regulate interest. The ninth case concerns exams. As you know, graduation exams, eighth grade exams are due at a different date. There is a need for a change in the Teacher's Charter, an episode change, for this school year, so that the work can take place and that the work is checked on time. The tenth case relates to the elimination of a number of absurdities, e.g. regarding June retirement. Everyone knows that there's a record that says that anyone who retired in June passed it on worse terms than the one who passed in May. We're also eliminating this. If we move on to specific packages that are important, I will mention the railway issue, broadly speaking. We know what the wager looks like today in connection with the regulations introduced. Although the rail system is functioning, whether it concerns railways or buses or bus services, the deal is a few percent, about 8%, so the losses are, of course, very high. So first of all, we are introducing the possibility for PKP PLK to borrow EUR 100 million from the EIB. Secondly, we are launching funds that were included in the budget for voivodship carriers, domestic and international carriers, in terms of rail, in the amount of more than PLN 1 billion. We also introduce the possibility of using the covid fund, and this has been extended here. Another issue is the possibility of converting the railroad into a bus, so substitute connections where this placing is actually very, very small. There are also changes in the Telecommunications Law, which I would like to say literally a few words about, positive changes, mainly beneficial to subscribers, e.g. the possibility to terminate the contract in a document form, i.e. at a distance, so far it has been unfortunately impossible, the possibility of maintaining the continuity of the provision of Internet access services, so far it has been possible for telephone services, now we want to extend it to stationary Internet access. We introduce provisions that will require operators to inform subscribers that their current contract will be automatically extended for an indefinite period, while operators will inform about possible solutions and the most favourable tariff packages they offer before automatic renewal. Here, of course, we are thinking of the elderly in order to provide them with such opportunities. In addition, a new mode for the election of UKE President is proposed. The current regulation did not require an open, transparent competition procedure for the position of the head of the national regulatory authority. We are also introducing additional new requirements that should be taken into account when drawing up assumptions for selection procedures. The consequence of this solution is the annulment of the auction announced by the President of UKE. As for the other things, I'll mention a few things. They don't all have an episodeal character, but they're important. The issue of the Pilecki Institute so that it can act as well as it does and also represents Poland in Germany. The issue of support, at the initiative of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, for the PISF. This is a question - for local governments - of the bus fund. First of all, it should be emphasized that we increase the rate for car kilometres from zloty to 3 zlotys. There are also changes in the area of the Minister of Science and Higher Education concerning the Research Network of Łukasiewicz or extension of time limits for doctoral, habilitation cables. Support for the woodworking sector. A number of solutions that provide electronicisation, the possibility of conducting remote meetings. And finally, just a few words about the self-correction that came into the High House so that no one would suspect that anything we wanted to hide. It's nothing. 100% salaries for soldiers, for officers on the same terms as for doctors, when they are in quarantine. This is a clarification of these records, because from the beginning this was the intention, the clarification also of those records, the improvement which abolishes these decisions, in fact restores these judicial and administrative decisions and their course. The third point is to extend the scope of the so-called so-called procedure compared to the current rules. It's in court. It also allows for the possibility of identifying appeals in civil proceedings brought before 7 November 2019 at a secret meeting to a wider extent. As regards the self-correction, in the case of administrative courts, they will be able to proceed in the context of a hearing which is adjoined. It is also a simplified possibility to transfer the judge to another department on the basis of an unlawful division of actions. Finally, in connection with today's announcement by the Prime Minister, with the government's decisions, it is about opening dates for schools, and it is also about extending the right to care for parents. High Izbo! Finally, I would like to say one more thing. Please remember, when you can talk about these matters or remind others about two things: what has happened in the last days, I am talking about the resolution of the Council of Ministers, which concluded at this legislative stage the process of financial shield, i.e. about the 100 billion PLN for Polish entrepreneurs for loans, for subsidies that die in 75% - it will come into force any day now, we already have the consent, notification to the European Commission - and also about what will be, the second draft law, which will soon be sent to the High Chamber, whose applicant is the Minister of Development, Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, who in turn will expand and give further opportunities to entrepreneurs, there will be the so-called one. Self-government shield. To conclude, I would like to ask the High House to proceed urgently with this project. Thank you, Marshal, for including him in today's agenda. As you can see, there are a number of really good, positive changes for citizens here. Thank you, High Izbo, for listening. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u57	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, positive of course, concerning the draft law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, from prints No 344 and 344-A, together with the government's self-correction to this printing. The bill continues and complements the solutions adopted in the Act of 16 April 2020 on specific support instruments for the spread of SARS-CoV-2 and aims to introduce several or several dozen solutions to counter the negative socio-economic effects and to regulate the various social groups. As the Minister pointed out, this is de facto divided into two groups, on the one hand into a financial group, and on the other hand it is support relating primarily to the system of procedure in many areas. It is very important to facilitate and assist entrepreneurs and to enable the recapitalisation of the Industrial Development Agency, whose activities will reduce the problems of entrepreneurs in obtaining funding. Ladies and gentlemen, getting funding today is one of the biggest problems for businesses. I think those who deal with the banking sector know very well what we're talking about. It is very important to extend the exemptions, to allow people paying their own insurance contributions to benefit from the exemption when their income was higher than 300% the projected revenues of the average monthly gross wage in the national economy in 2020, but their income from this activity in February 2020 was not higher than 7 000. The Minister presented it, too. It seems that this is an excellent bow towards all those who conduct business activities with relatively high revenues in their business, but the profitability of these interests, business is relatively lower. I think this is a big bow towards, above all, small trade in our country, but also a large part of the services provided. This is the introduction of deadlines or an extension of deadlines for the implementation of certain reporting obligations referred to. In addition, the Act introduces further regulations to reduce the impact of the pandemic on rail and bus operators, which has already been mentioned. The sector is in a very difficult situation. This is aid for farmers and agricultural producers, protection and assistance for people in material difficulties, among others. the aforementioned increase in the amount of the income criterion entitled to benefit from the maintenance fund to PLN 900 of PLN 800, together with the introduction of the principle of a zloty for zloty. It is also an extension of the catalogue of cases to be dealt with electronically, which is very important in relation to the procedure not only in front of the authorities, but also to a large extent before the courts, enabling the submission of a letter to the general court by using the ePUAP platform during the duration of the epidemiological risk and epidemic situation, enabling the court to deliver via the ePUAP platform, improving and supporting higher education and education referred to, and improving the action of the court during the epidemic through electronic communication. Ladies and gentlemen! All these proposals are very much in response to all the appeals, requests that flowed from a very large number of economic and social environments. I think that on the one hand we will loosen up certain procedures because of the situation we are in, but on the other hand very specific instruments have been prepared. Here I am thinking about financial instruments, above all redundancies, which will bring much good for Polish business, not only the biggest one. The ARP will probably support larger projects here, but this also applies to those who are engaged in business as mentioned earlier, and (The Bell) have a large income, but not necessarily high profitability. Once again, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u58	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bill on an epidemic, supposedly on the fight against the consequences of this epidemic and the economic crisis. Beautiful title, beautiful justification, so far wonderful words from the PiS side, and in the middle almost nothing. Of course, there are a few fig leaves, but we are presented almost 200 pages of legislation, and in fact what is good in this law would fit on one page. In fact, what is good about this bill is the implementation of our demands - the Civic Coalition, which we reported in previous bill projects. And if you see what's in it, there's nothing else. First of all, the most important demands are missing. There's no word on medical testing. Today, April 29th, we know that the best way to fight an epidemic is where there are mandatory and systematic research for medical services. There is still no release of trade on Sundays, there is still no release of VAT money, with a split payment. This is the money of Polish taxpayers. At least let Polish taxpayers pay their wages with this money. Of course, there's no word on the border traffic. Allow Polish employees to work and Polish employers to come to them from abroad. This is a crisis fight? There's no mention of special economic zones. If you don't loosen the rules, thousands of companies in special economic zones will go bankrupt. What do we got? We'll take the art. 1 - amendment of the Civil Code. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Art. 123 of the Constitution states that no code must be amended in such a way. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment on the sign. K 9/11 confirmed exactly that. It's also a violation of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, but it's yours that's been the norm since 2015. What's wrong? There's dirt everywhere. Just like in the previous laws, this is where you make dumps that make you cover for dirt. And that changes the I.D. Act. One word exchanged as well as famous magazines. As you exchange the word "legal' for "real', the government will have better, easier access to the personal data of Polish citizens. The Law on Free Legal Assistance. What does she have to do with the epidemic? Yeah, it does. By the way, you're dealing with a case where the ministry will know the personal data of anyone who requests such advice, and what's more, it's going to know who has the problem, because it's going to go to the ministry as well. This is a crisis fight? I don't think so. What does the D.A.'s office bill have to do with the crisis? It only extends the term of the nominates of Ziobra e.g. At the National Attorney's Council. The Telecommunications Act. The Minister here said that now there will be a transparent choice, or actually a recruitment for the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. No, it's not. This procedure lacks the Senate that has been here so far. Because PiS doesn't have a majority in the Senate. And such a newly elected President of the Office of Electronic Communications will get new rights, because as we read, it will turn out that in special cases, no one knows which, such a President may limit the rights of recipients of telecommunications services. And it will be a fight against the crisis: turning off mobile phones and the Internet for Poles. This is a crisis fight? No, it's a fight against the opposition. Rail transport law. And since when does PLK transport passengers? PLK owns the infrastructure, Minister, and glory to it... there will be punishment for whoever gives the loan on the polish track. That's how they were at the commune. That's the money that can't be recovered. Why are you also loosening the way you spend money from the Railway Fund? Looking at the fact that you've lifted the penalty for not applying the Public Procurement Act, I can guess why. Hunting law. What does Hunting Law have to do with the crisis? The fact that you are saying here that the Management Board of the Polish Hunting Union can make decisions about spending money. I just want to tell you that the board has already made a decision against the hunting wheels and took the money. This law is late for at least a few weeks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anti-Liquid Regulations. Sounds very good, and really it's a fight between SKOKs and loan companies. And then there's the Teacher's Card. Why is the Teacher Charter limited and the Minister's door wide open to limit this card? What do career promotions have to do with conducting prom exams or eighth grade exams? Thank you, sir. And finally, a new tax. Well, it's just a scandal. Again with the ordinary law, you introduce a new tax in an exceptional manner. Poles will pay more for watching the film, and it is not really clear where this money will go and what it will be spent on. Under the pretence of fighting the crisis, under the pretence of fighting the epidemic, you're really cleaning up a lot of dirt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u60	Now on behalf of the Left Club, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The second month has passed since the crisis, its beginning, and the government has still not presented a good plan to save the Polish economy, Polish workers. Shame. Shame, Prime Minister. Instead of a plan to save the economy and thaw the economy, the government has a plan, but it is an election plan. The left presented a good anti-crisis programme. We gave as such: a crisis benefit, i.e. 2600 PLN for anyone who lost their job or closed the company, raising unemployment benefits to 1800 PLN, exemption from mortgage payments, consumer loans. All of you, we don't need too much, we have other ideas. So let's look at these ideas. What do you want? The Prime Minister says: the possibility of firing employees by e-mail, lowering employees' salaries by half, throwing employees on the market who work on the second level. This is your real shield. Let's face it, this is sleepwalking in the fog. You're playing Russian roulette with the public, and just in case, you've loaded the entire clip. Poor people are increasingly starting to host Polish homes and families, and you close your eyes. From week to week, you are proposing worse and worse solutions, more harmful and dangerous to society. You want to shift the cost of the crisis to citizens, workers, entrepreneurs. You are doing everything you can to make the medicine that you fund the Polish economy worse than the disease itself. And worst of all, millions of people who lose their jobs who close companies who have nothing to live for, show Mrs. Lichocka's gesture. Yes, Mrs. Lichocka's gesture. And this is the real face, the real picture of an anti-crisis shield that is supposed to save Polish society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u62	Now I ask for the voice of Mrs Monica Falej, also the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I hate to say it, but this bill is not a shield. 3.0, and a nervous attempt to convince that you are doing a lot to improve the fate of Poles and Poles, and in fact you are making a lot of noise about nothing. You're talking crap about a shield, and what does it represent? Records of credit subsidies that people will actually be forced to take to make ends meet and not to close their companies. And by the way, you're not saying anything again, you're not offering anything to the employees as if they didn't exist at all. Oh, no, but you haven't forgotten: with a 2.0 shield, it'll be easier to lower their salaries, fire people from work, for example, retirement age. This is the protection of Poles and Poles that you are fighting for. I thought it was something else. And all the rest of the bill, so-called. A shield? Half the records have nothing to do with the epidemic. This is a patch bag for your broken laws, a chaotic collection, not a real aid project. And so sloppy - I'm sorry for that term - is a collection of cosmetic changes. 'Cause how does the fight against the coronavirus affect the record of the election of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications without the Senate? What has to do with supporting the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Witold Pilecki and the possibility of setting up his new branches or the absurd idea that the Minister of National Education could freely change the law - the Teacher's Charter by regulation? Some of the changes may make sense, they're reasonable, like the ones in the Penal Code. You might even think about them, but they don't help fight the coronavirus. I suspect that the work on this bill looked just like this: you called your ministers, told them to come up with something, and those in fear began to have a wish concert and made their proposals from Sasa to Las. And that's what this project looks like. It is a chaotic record of existing law, not a real aid package. Just admit that you have no idea how to help Poles and Poles. What the government has presented to us today is not a shield, but a mosaic of questionable proposals, which should be voted on separately, as on amendments to the provisions of the various laws. This is not what millions of Poles and Poles were waiting for. Time's running out, Prime Minister. We're all tired. It's time for real action. Time to feel the safety of Poles and Poles. Admit it, you can't do it until it's too late. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The left on the committee will make substantive amendments. We hope that the final shape of this law will focus on the fight against the coronavirus, not on the realization of current interests... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u64	Thank you very much. Now Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. As you will continue to announce us, as you did just now, Marshal Zgorzelski will announce all the Members of the PiS as Members of the Agreement. That's one thing. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Another act of tragifarza entitled: A punctured and delayed crisis shield, written in intervals between the introduction of Bavarian post elections. You were to draw and bring to Poland the German reparations, and you were to draw from the correspondence vote in Bavaria, which spread the coritotus. In breaks, you try to create help for workers and entrepreneurs, once again inefficient. Why in other countries has one crisis shield been adopted, which is functioning, and here is a third installment, which does not even meet the promises made three weeks ago by Prime Minister Morawiecki. 3 weeks ago together with the President of the National Bank of Poland, Prime Minister Morawiecki left and said about the liquidity fund. To be honest, we were happy, happy employers in Poland, employers' unions. But what happened to it? There was a announcement, a beautiful press conference. In PR, in TikToki you are champions, but in real action you are no longer. Three weeks have passed, and there's no liquidity fund, there's no real help and no money for companies to save jobs. What's wrong? We read about it 2 days ago in Rzeczpospolita, Mr Gawkowski spoke about it: e-mail layoffs, reduced working time, thus reducing wages and dismissal of the employee by e-mail. This is saving jobs? The anti-crisis shield for these outstanding specialists was supposed to be to save jobs. You're all confused. You in this drive blindly, against the wall, without brakes to correspondence choices are unable to distinguish between job protection and e-mail dismissal. I hope you guys get out of this. I expect a firm declaration from Prime Minister Morawiecki today because he did not have time to speak on this matter. He can do conferences every day, but he doesn't talk about important things. Another case concerning that hole-in-the-hole, late shield, third installment of your shield, seemingly anti-crisis. You want to introduce fees for using Netflix and other platforms where you can watch movies and TV shows. The moment the Poles were locked in their homes, it was often the only way of entertainment, making the day more attractive. If you guys were still taxing big foreign companies, that would be okay. You just know who's gonna pay for it? Poles, our countrymen, not big companies, or they're gonna throw these costs away. That can't be our agreement. You want to cut the overtime off the employees, the police officers. They're working on the front line all the time. And such a reward that there will be no overtime for them? That's support, that's solidarity? You didn't want solidarity with us. To be honest, one thing you've surprised me once again. I thought it was almost impossible after five years, but your abilities are limitless. Once again, we have President Andrzej Duda for nothing. I argue with him, I argue with him, I compete with him, but you say you support him. He said a few days ago: you have to fire all employees, employers from ZUS, cancel ZUS contributions. Great, well, we'd love to sign it, too. ♪ True, like us ♪ We said, you considered it a bidding, a wishing concert by the opposition. The interests of employees and employers are more important to us, so we were happy to make these amendments to the Senate. That's where you blocked it. It doesn't mean anything to you what Andrzej Duda says. You only need him for one thing, and these power-enhancing choices are only needed for one thing: to accept your decisions. Even his right clues are for nothing. What do you have to do? Plan for Poland and three basic things. The liquidity fund immediately, the money for the companies to pay the employees to buy the goods so they can carry out the services. The second issue: voluntary ZUS permanently, not only temporarily, because it is necessary in moments of crisis, in moments when it is better to be able to use it, so as not to choke Polish companies. And a very important thing: a bonus for a hero. 1500 PLN every month for all employees, for doctors, for social workers from the first day since they fight the koravirus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u66	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We're opening a bill, which is the third version of the crisis shield, and in the article. 15 we find rules that have nothing to do with the crisis. Namely the government in the article. 15 introduces a new tax without any discussion, without any consultation, without any consideration, without any logic. It is about tax, I read, note, point 6a, from the provider of audiovisual media service on request. In the explanatory memorandum, we can learn that it will be discharged to the State Institute of Film Art, and therefore not even to combat the crisis, not to protect health, actually it is not known for what purpose. If the State Institute of Film Art had no money, then the Prime Minister, since the budgetary situation was so perfect, would surely have added, but it should not have been added. Now a new tax is being introduced. And who's gonna pay it? First Ipla, second Player, third Amazon, fourth CDA, fifth Netflix, Apple. Is there anyone missing on that list? Of course, there are two major online platforms missing, which collect almost all advertising budgets on the Internet. Of course, these are two American companies. I mean Google and Facebook. Is what the government is doing the digital tax he's been talking about? At this moment, does the side door introduce some kind of neutered version in a way that the Ambassador has liberated? Is that what this is about? Why did the government decide to tax exactly what Poles themselves pay for, i.e. films that they will pay for themselves? Why didn't the government decide to tax what is provided free of charge and those companies that collect most of the advertising budgets? I am opposed to any new taxes, I am saying this clearly to sound it, but since we have tax maniacs in the government, because Mr Mateusz Morawiecki reacted to the crisis by announcing that he would pilgrimage in the EU to introduce three new taxes, it is his diplomatic offensive, and in the internal forum he proposed that he would introduce a new tax, as they called it, from audiovisual services on demand, could at least do so according to some logic? Why don't you take away those who have the most money? What kind of asshole is this about handing over money to creators? What are these combinations? Why did you say that when you asked for it? These are your magazines or magazines. If there were no words to demand, the largest American corporations would be subject to this bill. And so you did it in such a way that it will pay some Polish companies. The sum of this tax, from what I see here, is the calculation of several million zlotys. This is a joke. You're just paying yourselves tens of dollars from a national bank, unless it's hundreds of billions of zlotys, out of budget control, out of the control of the Sejm. And here's a new tax for a dozen million. What are you doing? What's going on here? Why isn't the Prime Minister here? Why isn't the president of the PiS here? Who's gonna explain this to us? There are other interesting things in this shield, I can also say a few words about them, although maybe not so surprising, because these are the ideas of the Confederation, for example. exemption from the Social Security Office of small entrepreneurs, those with a high turnover, small income. That's what we're talking about. We've tabled such an amendment to the first shield, to the second shield. There's a third shield, the government has gone to brains, it's doing what the Confederation suggested. It will benefit people from gastronomy, traders, various low-margin services. Another interesting thing about the shield. It turns out, however, that it is possible to do what the Confederation has called for in the elections to the Sejm, i.e. It's about electronic service in courts. What did it take for the PIS to come to its senses? The epidemic needed you to listen to what we said. Electronic handwriting in the courts. Who said that in the election campaign last year? We - when you played games at the top of the judicial hierarchy. Next case. It turns out that ZUS does not have to spend 25 million PLN to send paper information about how much they have so-called. contributions which, by the way, do not set aside anywhere, you probably know very well. It turned out that due to the epidemic, bureaucracy in the ZUS could be reduced. But we also have other curiosities, for example. further facilitations for labour immigrants. In the previous shield, the first one, the second one, the government automatically extended the work permits for economic immigrants. It is now introducing further facilitations to abolish the obligation to update permits when changing employment conditions. And today's Rzeczpospolita reports that already 900,000. people have a proposal to give up their jobs or to fire them and that the unemployment rate is approaching 10%. That's the amount you guys said was gonna be at the end of the year, and it's April. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. It all looks very weak. The facts are destroying you, Marshal, history will judge you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u68	Thank you. The list of Members registered includes about 20 people. I'm closing the list of people to vote for questions. I would like to inform you that the Sejm Bureau is based on the Rule. 39 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a limit of 30 questions for clubs according to the following parities: Law and Justice - 15, Civic Coalition - nine, Left - three, Polish People's Party - two, and one question for the circle. What wheel, Marshal? Mr Andrzej Costowniak is the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We hear from the opposition that there is no money, no one gets anything, everything is an illusion. That's how you explain all those words. Minister! Please inform me about, for example, the recapitalisation of the Industrial Development Agency. How much are we talking about? How many companies can benefit from this, according to the simulation, of course? On the other hand, I would like us to learn how many people, in simulations, can benefit from the exemption from contributions. And the third thing is how many people can also benefit from raising the income criterion to PLN 900 in the case of maintenance fund benefits. This is a question to which, I think, it will be easy to answer (the bell) with the numbers themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've presented a project of shield number three. There's been a lot of talk about what's in that shield. You've heard a lot of bitter words. I wanted to ask you a third question about what's not in this shield. There is no obligation in this shield to test medical personnel with weekly screening tests. I don't know if you realize that every sixth infected person is a healthcare professional, that 30% of all infections occur in hospitals and clinics. I wanted to ask you because this is not only an incomprehensible thing for me, but also an incomprehensible thing, why the government stubbornly opposes this most obvious action, an action that would improve the fight against the epidemic and prevent the spread of the virus in broad circles of society. I would like to say that this should be treated in terms of (the bell) gross negligence and gross omission in terms of government activities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u72	Thank you. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the third season of the government's series entitled: an anti-work shield. We already have wage cuts, the announcement of redundancies in the budget, the extension of working time, and even an indication by the head of the reduced rest place. You have already legalized labour camps in Poland - bravo. You didn't have time to support the people who lost their jobs. Hence my question: Does the government plan to leave people who have lost their jobs without means to live? Does the government really think that these embarrassing benefits of 500 zlotys that they get and so few people are enough? Well, they're not enough. If you don't have your ideas, use the ideas of the Left. The bill's waiting. Introduce immediately a crisis benefit of PLN 2100 per hand for all who have lost their livelihood, regardless of the type of contract. Let's fix the unemployment benefit system so that this support is at least PLN 1400 per month, or 70%. minimum wage. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u74	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, club PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All those who waited for the third version of the crisis shield really had more expectations than what was proposed here. All the more so, these expectations are right, that you have really had a lot of time and a lot of experience and lessons from, for example, domestic entrepreneurs. Today we need to be clear and clear: What you have prepared is not like any 3.0 shield, but more like the drama in three acts. Because do you think the Polish entrepreneur you shut down seven weeks ago will be happy to have a chance to apply for a loan interest payment? Or will this entrepreneur be pleased that the rules on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude are being amended? Ladies and gentlemen, we really don't need such rules. The need for life rules that bring anything to the functioning of companies in our country. The only progress I see is progress in the number of pages of these laws. The first was 25, the second was 45, this was 65% more complex, more vague and non-living provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u76	I ask the Secretary to read the message. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u77	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Public Finance Committee half an hour after the first reading of the bill on prints No 344 and No 344-A.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u78	Thank you very much. Let's get back to the questions. Another question, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. There's no envoy. Remotely. Oh, remotely. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u79	May I speak? Yes, yes, please. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Do you realize how much laughter it's gonna be in a few years? There's no epidemic, it's a journalistic fact. Funeral establishments report it's about 20%. less funerals, and not because of road accidents. We have a few epidemics like this a year. Five hundred people died of Coronavirus, the flu - already 2000, and 15,000 died of cancer. And you're taking money from oncology and giving it to the coritos. Like women who spend everything on a fashionable dress, we can die only of a fashionable disease, and who wants to die of an unfashionable one, let him die in a corner of peace. You scare people and take people under your shoes. It would have been a long time after the outbreak, not 500 people would have died, but 3 or 4,000. People, but the epidemic would be over by now. And now the epidemic will last until August, December, damn it knows how long. He's gonna die at least 6,000. people or more (the bell), but annually the economy, daily the economy loses a dozen billion zlotys. It's not the coronavirus that's guilty, it's you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u80	Thank you. Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! So many good words, there will be a third shield, entrepreneurs waiting, people waiting for work. For the time being, you have managed to scare the workers and expect today from the Minister and from the Prime Minister a clear declaration that neither in this, nor in your subsequent pseudo-carriages, there will be no talking about e-mail release, of preventing people from making extra money, of releasing older people from their jobs. We simply expect, as people, as citizens and citizens of this clear declaration, that these anti-working records will not be in this or in subsequent shields. If you want to rule, rule so that people don't fear anything more than a virus. You're saying you're gonna be helping entrepreneurs so much. It's not enough. You say you're gonna help your family, you're gonna make changes to maintenance regulations, but a little less. Why don't you make it easier then, you won't be able to lift the income criterion in maintenance cases for the duration of the pandemic? Why don't you agree to a maintenance certificate (the bell) as well by electronic means? Take care of the DPS employees. And tests, tests, medical tests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We do have another document that - we have an impression - is not a shield 3.0, and it's some sort of ordering of over 30 other laws. That's pretty much how it all looks, and actually more help for entrepreneurs in this shield can't be seen. However, I would like to point out that there are some ideas in this Chamber both in the discussion and in the form of laws. Let me remind you that the Left has filed a law on job protection, the Left has filed a law on crisis witnessing, the Left has filed a law on helping entrepreneurs to cover the costs of their day-to-day operation. My question is, will the government take care of these matters too? Do you plan a 5.0, which will consist, among others. from our ideas, which you will want to discuss honestly, and not only will you give us further shields as a collection of changes (the bell) in many other laws? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u84	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club PSL-Kukiz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u85	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You praised the shield so much here. 3.0, a new draft law tabled by the government, listing various aspects, including not entirely economic, but you did not mention that it was updating the Law on the prosecution's case. I've talked about this before. If this were still the case for this 6-month period of shift of elections for health reasons. You give this right to prosecutors, you don't give it to ordinary Poles. That's your curve. You respect civil liberties more than citizens themselves. But why are you changing the structure of the prosecutor's councils of colleges, providing seats for deputy prosecutors, or functionaries appointed by the Minister of Health? You used to talk a lot about Hannibal's trip to Rome. And I'll tell you, the old Polish proverb says, "The spoon will spoil a barrel of honey." Finally learn how to function (Dawn) according to Polish tradition and respect for Polish citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u86	Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Schreiber. On the occasion of speaking about what was written in the changes to the telecoms law, you did not care that the changes would be most beneficial for the body regulating telecommunications and postal services, for the President, because it would be much easier to appoint him - the rules were eliminated, including the Senate project, which has so far had to agree to the candidacy - and it would be more difficult to cancel. And why would it be harder to cancel? Since the possibility of dismissing the President has been rejected from the existing provisions, the remark is that the law is grossly infringed, and if a decision would be given against the President of the State to prohibit management positions or to perform functions relating to particular responsibility. And now the question is, does this have to do with the fact that the President is responsible for the regulation of the postal market, which is to be dealt with in the organisation of elections with a gross violation of the law? Does this have to do with any future interests that maybe already exist somewhere in different minds, and you know that they will be a gross violation of the law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u88	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! People often ask me when the government will finally take care of their problems. One, two, three shields and it didn't work again. Half the articles in this project have nothing to do with the epidemic. Again we have the effect of ministerial circulation, wishful tutti frutti, about seeding, hunting union, and to be a variant, this time, instead of putting up masts, the government wants to rob platforms like Netflix, although sometimes they are, as at this moment, the only window for culture. And if we're already at culture, I'm going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński. Why didn't he take care of the cultural animators that the local governments are now calling off the competitions? They're not protected by a shield for culture. They won't get unemployment benefits, caring, parking, literally nothing. I'm asking for a written reply in less than 77 days, because that's what the Deputy Prime Minister used to keep my interpellations in the drawer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u90	Mr Sławomir Neumann, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another number of shields and another disappointed hopes of entrepreneurs and employees. In a moment we will have more dial numbers than the Windows version or iPhone models on the market, and then no problem of the Polish economy will be solved. I'm asking. When will there be real help for employees and companies? I'm not asking when they're gonna be able to apply, but when they get the money, when there's real help, when they're gonna get the money to keep jobs, to keep the liquidity so they can survive this difficult period. If you keep pissing like that and you're doing propaganda like that, it's gonna take months and months for the company to wait for money. We can expect, at this rate of your work, that only in the next shield, no. 12 or 16, processed somewhere in September, will there be real solutions for the Polish economy. The problem is that in September it may be that there will no longer be anyone to benefit from this help, there will be no companies and employees will become unemployed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are wasting time and chances of the Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u92	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three approaches is the third approach, and the shield is still like a sieve. I would like to ask for special economic zones, until recently the eye in the head of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Companies operating in special economic zones benefit from income tax relief, but the condition to benefit from this relief is to invest a certain amount, but also to employ a certain number of people. Today, with a drop in orders, with a very significant decrease in sales, in many cases they are unable to maintain employment at the level specified in the contract and failure to comply with this agreement threatens to repay the State aid granted. These are multimillion-dollar amounts, which threatens the functioning of these companies. If they are to be sure (the bell) of further action in the zone, then we need to correct and change, sign new agreements with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u94	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It seemed that the next shields were intended to serve us as Poland and Poles to come out with a shield, not on a shield from this challenge, which is the epidemic, but it turns out that the shield hits the next social groups most, this time at teachers. I do not know how - I would like to ask the government - how to help organize school work is that the Minister is given the right to disable the records of the Teacher's Charter. I do not understand, either, how in four working days local governments and owners of kindergartens and crèches are to prepare to open them on 6 May. You're acting chaoticly, you're acting against the citizens, you're acting in such a way that there's not much going on in real life to keep jobs. We have proposed concrete solutions, e.g. to let entrepreneurs keep their VAT to disable split payment for a while - you didn't bring it in. We offered to fire the CSO for everyone - you didn't bring it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, you're hitting another social group.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u96	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With Shield 2, the parliamentary majority supported some very good amendments that we tabled as a Civic Coalition club. Our amendments included: extending the period of validity of the student card and PhD students, but also extending the period of suspension of student loans to 6 months. In the proposed amendment, you maintain these amendments. That's a good step. But let me remind you that at the time we were testing shield 2, the Ministry of Health reported that the epidemic would peak at the end of April. However, today there are voices that the peak of disease can occur in the autumn. Hence my question: If the summit of diseases actually falls in the autumn, will you agree to give a positive opinion on our next amendment extending the possibility of suspending the repayment of loans for the next 3 and 6 months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u98	Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's the third shield. Again great numbers, again great words, only very small effects of what was passed earlier. Once again, we will learn from Prime Minister Morawiecki how many applications have been submitted, how many of you are helping, only Polish companies, Polish employees, Polish entrepreneurs would like to know how much money you have already paid, how many companies you have helped, how many applications you have considered, because you still do not talk about it. I suggest you change this constantly repeated phrase: we will help you with the word: we help you because you are not helping. So far, there are situations where, for 400 applications in one town, they are all rejected. Yesterday, I saw some entrepreneurs from Ursynów. There's not a single person there, even though they've all applied, they haven't gotten any help. No request has been granted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time to stop telling me how many conclusions there are. It's time to start saying how many people you've helped. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u100	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! I wish there was a Prime Minister - he came to the debate, but Mr President Kaczyński took it from us because I wanted to say a few words about banks. You were bragging about giving liquidity to the banks. Let's see how these banks behave today. The worst are state. All entrepreneurs say that state banks are the least flexible. An example? Raising the threshold for own contribution to mortgage loans. PKO banks, both - 20% of 10% , and the Bank for Environmental Protection - 40%. Who in Poland can take a mortgage with their own contribution 40% ? This is defrosting the economy? An example - more banks. Ban on any lending by banks in the first place to all services, cosmetics and hairdressers closed by the state. How do you defrost the economy? Marshal Terlecki has a nice new haircut. He cut himself somewhere. Where'd you cut yourself? All Poles go to the underworld of hairdressing, cosmetic. Is that normal? Is it safe that everyone's cutting themselves off at someone's place? Are sanitary considerations maintained? No. Hotels open, restaurants close (the bell) and you cannot cut your hair, which you must do safely. Thank you, sir. And it's all over the head. Freeze the economy and give people credit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u102	The Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers Mr Łukasz Schreiber now has the floor. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, where did you cut yourself because it's important now? But before the bans. You cut yourself before the last Seym. No. Is there a motion for rejection at first reading? It wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the debate, although I must say that it took place under quite specific conditions. I'll start with these general comments first. Shield. First you give yourself numbers, supposed dial numbers: 1, 2, 3, and then you tell jokes about it. Nobody calls it that. The Prime Minister calls it. If you use such terms for yourself, I understand that these jokes are directed at your own address. All this time I have said, all this time I say: this is the expansion of the anti-crisis shield, which was announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. You say that nothing works here and it's very bad at all, there are no quotas and only applications are submitted. Finally, there was a question, I believe, from the honourable Member... How much money? ...yes, Mr Sławomir Neumann. That's what I'd like to say, except that 2400 grand. These applications were filed until yesterday... Okay, here we go. We have loans for micro-entrepreneurs, let's start with this. The total loans granted, the conclusions considered positively, are 131 thousand. $5,000 each. And here actually this quantity looks the least. Just remember one thing: county labour offices are in the hands of local governments. Remember that. Also, perhaps you can mobilize your self-governments to make it a little better to function. Let's move on. Protecting jobs. Just the number of applications... Good. How long has it been granted? Over, almost 1,400 million PLN. On the other hand, for loans to micro-entrepreneurs - 658 million. So it's a parking lot, right? Yes. We also have the funding of part of the wage costs, the remuneration of employees, for those engaged in economic activities. Here we have over 40,000 complexes. conclusions. I'd be happy to fill in some details. I would just like to draw your attention to one thing that I have already mentioned: now this major instrument is a financial shield. It's a huge operation that Mr. Prime Minister has prepared and announced. The resolution of the Council of Ministers shall be adopted. As announced from the beginning, we want to do everything in the last days of April, so that at least on the last day of April it will be launched. And there's still the goal: we're doing everything we can to make it work. This will be a simple statement that we make to our bank, in the case of large companies in the PFR itself. 75% A deadly loan or a combined subsidy - this is what the Members of the Left asked - with what? That's to protect jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first year no one will pay anything - 25% It's cancelled. In the case of micro-enterprises, those who employ from one to nine people, another 50% may be surrendered if the same number of employees is present during the average annual period of the loan. As soon as the entrepreneur contains... So it's as much as 75%. will be able to be decommitted and 50% This loan can be decommitted by maintaining jobs. This is the aid mechanism. The same is true in the SME sector. Here it will be 25%, depending on the maintenance of jobs, but the amounts are much higher. In the case of micro-entrepreneurs, the maximum amount is 36 000. PLN per employee, such amount may be granted. 36,000. zł times the number of employees. 36,000. where this decrease is above 75% turnover, minimally 12,000. at a decrease of 25-50%. In the case of SMEs, this will also be a percentage depending on the turnover of the company in question last year. Here the average subsidy is to be guaranteed at 1900 thousand. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! You talk about the work law, you talk about the press articles you're referring to, and you say there's something. You have a bill that doesn't have that kind of record. You have a clear statement. I can put it back together again. There are no such records and will not be in this project, nor will there be in a project that will be submitted in a moment, the applicant of which is the Minister of Development, records that will allow someone to be fired by e-mail or to loosen the possibilities at all, to facilitate the dismissal of employees. On the contrary, we want to save jobs. This is the basis and this is in dialogue. Finally, the third of these basic comments. Medical tests. So let's call it symbolically. There's something I'd like to tell you. Well, on 28 April, the Minister of Health, Prof. Łukasz Szumowski, wrote to the heads of all hospitals and encouraged them to direct staff for research, not necessarily every 7 days. If necessary, more often. There's just no tests. This letter was sent the following day, April 29th, he pointed out that these regulations apply to all employees, including non-medical personnel... Could you give me the dates? April 28th. Oh, that's yesterday. I told you, sir. And that's something you can say about this subject, although it's not in fact in this bill... Did he give the funds? NFZ. Ladies and gentlemen! Everything is assured. After all, the NFZ will cover the funds for these studies. About the individual... Minister, you're out of time. Previously, I've extended ten minutes. Okay, I'm sorry, I just wanted to say... Well, then, as your marshal suggested, I was ready, but I'll answer in writing, and I'll answer on the committee if I need to. Thank you very much. I encourage you to work in committees and support this project. Let me just remind you that if we are talking about various financial operations, such as you are laughing at, that it will not work overnight, this financial shield has not come into effect, I think you realize how frivolous these assurances are. I will remind you that you did one such operation, but it was rather about taking the funds from OFE to the Poles and passing them to the Social Security Office. And then you lost 19 billion. Time's up, Marshal. Your marshal couldn't even tell me as a government spokesperson how it happened... You work on TVPiS? Mr. Marshal... ...and as it was later, we know that. So that I encourage such a minimum of humility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u104	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration of certain protective measures relating to the proliferation of SARS-CoV-2 virus contained in prints 344 and 344-A. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Information from the Government about the actions taken to enable work to be carried out in Poland and in neighbouring countries, Poles living in border areas within and outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. I will ask the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Marlena Maląg, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u105	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I will try to present the situation with regard to frontier workers in relation to the outbreak of Coronavirus. According to the data held, more than 115 thousand a year. Polish border workers work abroad, mainly in companies based in Germany and the Czech Republic. From the data we have from the CSO, it appears that in Germany in the border area, i.e. covering an area of up to 100 km, is about 73 thousand. employees, in the Czech Republic - 39 thousand. Since the introduction of restrictions on border crossings in Poland, restrictions have also arisen for border workers who live in Poland on a daily basis, but who commute to work in the neighbouring country every day or at least once a week. The obligation of 14-day quarantine on the one hand restricts the spread of COVID-19, on the other, restricts the professional work of Poles commuting to work abroad. Importantly, the mandatory quarantine facility serves the overarching objective of halting the spread of epidemics and protecting human life and health. As part of the activities related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19, the Polish government, through subordinate institutions and services, continuously monitors the epidemiological situation in the country. Currently implemented solutions also include data on virus infections in other countries, in particular those neighbouring Poland. In accordance with the rules adopted, an evaluation of the changes that are taking place in order to implement health safety principles is carried out on a regular basis. Further decisions on sharpening and ordering will therefore depend on the increase in the number of diseases, efficiency of health services and the implementation of health guidelines by the relevant bodies. At this stage of the fight against the pandemic, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund shall make every effort to ensure that the payment of social security benefits and the exchange of information with foreign institutions entitled to the payment of these benefits are carried out without difficulties. The situation of border and cross-border workers subject to quarantine as regards the right to social benefits for this purpose is governed by both national and European Union legislation. Persons subject to the legislation of a State other than Poland, but residing in Poland, acquire the right to social benefits from quarantine under the legislation of the State in which they are insured. According to EU social security coordination rules, Polish frontier workers can register as unemployed and apply for unemployment benefits [[Applause]] in the country of their residence, i.e. in Poland, although all social security and unemployment insurance components were paid for in the country of employment. I hope the Minister will register. It should be noted here that if a frontier worker decides to change his place of residence for more than one week: from Poland to the State of employment, he will lose his status as a frontier worker within the meaning of EU rules on the coordination of social security systems. What's the consequence? The consequence of the loss of the status of frontier worker is the possibility for the employee to choose whether he wishes to register as unemployed and to receive unemployment benefits in the country of residence or in the country of last employment. What are you talking about? You don't know what you're talking about. You don't know the situation. Mr President, stop interrupting. I'm helping. No, you're interrupting. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: The Ministry took action to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic for insured persons and their family members in terms of their characteristics. To this end, we have asked both the President of the Social Insurance Institution, the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the Pension Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take urgent action to address the problems arising from the limitation of the possibility (the Bell) to move within the European Union and to carry out work and business activities. With regard to self-employed workers and self-employed workers in other European Union countries or the economic areas of Switzerland and the United Kingdom, we have developed the following solutions. With regard to Article. 11 of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems: as regards teleworking for border workers for the duration of the epidemic, it should not change the characteristics. The person will continue to be authorised to be subject to the legislation of the State of employment. With regard to Article. 12 of this regulation, concerning posted workers, in case of exceeding the maximum period of posting, during which it was possible to provide work in Poland, by a posted worker to Poland due to COVID-19 Polish insurance institutions at the request of foreign institutions will agree to extend the period of posting by means of an exceptional agreement, which is precisely the case in this situation. In the case of persons working simultaneously in two or more Member States, a change in the working schedule, including entrusting them with remote work and teleworking in the country of residence or in another Member State, will not result in a change of the pre-established legislative obligation. Teleworking. An agreement between the employer and the worker, which is precisely due to the epidemiological situation, is sufficient to maintain the legislation applicable in that institution. Thank you very much, Minister. You've run out of time. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the discussion. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: One more thing, Marshal. Ultimately, the decisions that are being taken are dealt with in the crisis management team. The proposals are also collected from neighbouring countries. Next week, as part of the defrosting of the economy... Because that's the most important thing. That's the most important thing. ...specific proposals that are developed in the team... Thank you very much. Yes, sir. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...will be presented next week as the boundaries will be defrosted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u106	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mrs Teresa Wargock's Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on Government Information about the actions taken to enable work in Poland and in neighbouring countries, Poles living in border areas in Poland and abroad. Honourable Members! Until six months ago, none of us realized what a huge health, social and economic problem we would have to face as a political class, what an attempt at solidarity and self-limitation will have to go through our society. The new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, caused by the disease, is a very dangerous opponent. The disease, which has become a world pandemic, has devastated social peace, the shaking of the world economy. The government, its services, companies of the Treasury, local governments, volunteers, all people of great heart, as their duties, have taken appropriate action. Today, two months after the first illness, we have managed to control the spread of the disease. We maintain a flattened rate of disease growth, and the number of infections and deaths is the lowest in Europe. The health system is fully prepared to fight for the life and health of Poles. We have the right equipment and professional health care professionals. At the moment, there are 20 single-name hospitals in our country, i.e. Over 10,000. Places, 79 infectious units, we've launched 80 labs from zero, we've got a supply of tests. What's she talking about? I don't think that's the point. Your point was wrong. It's not about that. Everyone chooses the way they say what they think. Yeah, but about it. There's no problem with personal protective equipment, there's no problem with the number of tests. Ha, ha. Polish society adheres to the rules of isolation, applies to the introduced sharpenings and undoubtedly has great merits in the fact that the coronavirus in Poland is under control. COVID-19 is also a huge economic impact. That's why the government has prepared an anti-crisis shield, a financial shield. The elements of this shield are already implemented, applications are submitted, the first money is paid. In total, both shields are helping Polish entrepreneurs and employees, for which the government allocates over PLN 300 billion. That's about 15%. GDP. No one could have predicted such an epidemic. In addition to health and economic costs, there are social costs - and these social costs mainly show fear of maintaining jobs and maintaining family income. Such fears are experienced by millions of Polish workers at the moment. Today's government information concerns a narrow section of this problem related to cross-border employment. Like the Minister said, over 100,000. Polish workers work abroad in the cross-border sphere, mainly in Germany and the Czech Republic. The quarantine introduced since 27 March strongly affected the difficult situation of these workers and put them before a dilemma, whether to live in the country of employment or stay in Poland and stay with their family. The Minister's information shows that the work of the Ministry, the Social Insurance Institution, the KRUS is being carried out, that the situation is being monitored, that the social security system in the countries of the European Union is being analysed. The Ministry has introduced a package of solutions for workers, self-employed workers in the EU countries based on the Posted Workers Regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! Surely the problem is, the problem must be resolved in agreement with other EU agendas. The government is not going to fight right now, but it is going to counteroffensive in the fight against the virus. Therefore, the four stages presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki are the stages of freezing off the Polish economy. You shouldn't have frozen. I am convinced that cross-border workers will also accept these actions of the government as positive and will accept this main direction (The Bell), the principle that further abolition of bans must take place only under the strict assessment of the epidemic state in Poland and in the countries with which we border. Thank you very much, Member. The Law and Justice Club is asking for government information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u108	Now you will speak to Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, pandemic time is a very difficult time, it is a time of dramatic challenges, it is a time of trial and difficult decisions, but it is also a time to check how the government works, what decisions it makes, to test its responsibility for the fate of the state and citizens. However, if we look at what is happening in our country, in almost most cases Poles were left to themselves. And instead of helping them get longer and longer press conferences, more and more words, but less and less specific information. Even today's information from the Minister is actually two things: an instruction on how to register as an unemployed person, and the fact that a plan will be shown next week. Some kind of plan, and people expect specific information. Last week I talked to women living in the border area who told their stories. A single parent had to stay in Germany because if she returned to Germany, she would lose her job, she would not have the means to support her children. The kids have to be alone. It is 800 m away from the workplace. This is pathology. In such situations, people make dramatic choices. We saw protests, we saw protests of people, we saw dramatic scenes, children crying at the sight of their fathers. Another 800 meters, sometimes even less. You have to make decisions and you have to help these people. Those people I spoke to did not receive any help from the Polish state. Polish entrepreneurs, who were so hard to gain markets, founded companies in Germany, and taxes pay in Poland, now they have to close companies. It will be very difficult to return and reclaim customers, and build your potential, but also the wealth of our country. We should make decisions, give a concrete plan to get out of this, specific dates. People need to know what they can expect. It can't be that they still hear: one day, later, it's supposed to be safe. Yeah, it's supposed to be safe. To keep it safe, we're still talking about testing. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Testing. See how many tests you run for $1,000. residents in the Czech Republic, and how much for 1 000. residents in Germany. If we test, we can let people get back to normal faster, but we have to dare and make those decisions. It was said here that the Minister on 28 April decided that medical workers could be tested. We've been talking about this for weeks. This should have been solved a long time ago. It would keep us safe. I have the impression that these people who created these wonderful Euroregions, something we dreamed of, cooperation between the countries of these small homelands, have been left to themselves. Even representatives of countries, Czech Republic, Germany, call on the Polish government to work together to work out solutions. The government keeps quiet and doesn't lean on it. And I really think that today's statement by the Minister, in which there was not a single concrete idea, how to get out of this situation, indicates that you are not prepared at all and that you are not thinking about it at all. And if it weren't for the protests of the people who were and who were supposed to be on May 1st, and if it wasn't for the fact that the Members of the opposition are still asking questions, they're asking what you did about it, that information wouldn't be there. I've never heard such ill prepared information in this Seym. People really know how to be unemployed. But it's not about these people being unemployed, it's about keeping their jobs and getting them back to their normal lives. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am filing a motion to reject government information. It really was very scandalous information, and I'm just ashamed that the government ignores Poles, doesn't lean over their affairs. And we can really ask about cross-border zones every day, we can ask about doctors, we can ask about teachers, we can ask about every area of our lives. You guys aren't doing anything, you're just saying you're gonna come up with a plan. Another shield and no solution. I would even like to ask for this information from the government, so that the government can introduce specific people to whom it has helped, so that I can meet people who owe help to the government and know that they can come out of the crisis, because for now these are just promises. Words, words. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u110	Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I address the Prime Minister today as a decision-making person. We look forward to concrete solutions for border residents, cross-border and border workers. On May 4th, you open shopping malls, hotels, nursery and kindergartens. And do you know that on April 26th, children in German border counties have already returned to school? Today, children living in Poland, 5 km away, cannot fulfil their schooling obligation. We know that from the position of Warsaw they are tables in Excel and statistics, but from the position of border they are concrete people and concrete stories. These are health professionals, media, offices, schools, local small and medium-sized businesses. This is Mrs Ola, who single-handedly raises two children and lives on the German side, but in Poland she has a company that she cannot reach now. But also Mrs Monica, who lives on the Polish side of the teacher, who cannot return to work at school on the German side, although it takes her only 10 minutes by car. Many Poles lost their jobs not because they couldn't work just because you made it impossible for them. That's about $250,000. Polish citizens. But in total, this crisis affects a million people because these people have families and children. In Cieszyński Silesia alone it is 12 thousand. People who have been out of work. They are Poles employed in the factory in Trzńc, mine in Karwina or medical center in Hawierzów, where medical supplies are produced, which Poland also uses. Many times those who choose to stay in the Czech Republic or Germany to work, earn bread, live, family, legally, cannot see their loved ones who sometimes live only a few kilometers away, often on the other side of one bridge. During Friday's protests we saw separate families, sometimes standing 2-3 m apart, separated by a fence and army with weapons. Meanwhile, the citizen of Łódź travels more distance and can legally commute to work every day, e.g. in Warsaw. Prime Minister, you are regularly bragging about how Poland is leading in good solutions, and yet the coronavirus has no nationality, it knows no boundaries. It is worth noting, it is worth showing what statistics are. As far as Coronavirus is concerned, for example, the large district of Uckermark, which has more than 120,000. Inhabitants, today only 10 diseases, while the bordering district of Gryfinski with 82 thousand. The population is 31 diseases. The district of Löcknitz-Penkun is one case of illness and the border area of Szczecin is 46 cases. Prime Minister, these citizens are Poles, this government is their government, and you are their prime minister. Meanwhile, the governments of Brandenburg and Mecklenburg care more about Poles than their own country. Both Polish and German or Czech parties appeal to the government to open a small border traffic, to create any solutions. We have one solution ready. One of the possibilities is passes issued e.g. by the voivode of the region concerned, permission to cross the border in the case of so-called. a small border traffic. Such permits could be issued on the basis of confirmation of the place of work and the place of check-in by the voivods. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, also the Left Club, which uses the rest of the time, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation in the country must be assessed from different angles, and when it comes to human dramas, it must be seen from every foreseeable side. We are looking not only through a bachelor's prism with a high pension and a pretty good salary or banker who, although he had a huge fortune, today pretends that he is not, but above all, through the prism of human dramas. The government in its decisions to combat the effects of the crisis caused by the epidemic has left out many social groups, mostly workers, who in the so-called. The anti-crisis shields were left to themselves. On the eve of the work holiday, I would like to remind you of the drama of cross-border workers. These are thousands of Poles and Poles living in border areas such as Zgorzelec, Lubabka, Bogatynia, Zavidów, Porajów, Kamienna Góra or the whole area of Silesia Cieszyński. Today, all of them decided by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki were out of work and means of life. They already have problems paying current bills, let alone buying the necessary products for life. Forced to fight for their jobs, they went out on the street in many towns all over Poland. Last Friday, you fenced them with the police, the army with the guns, and you recorded them like criminals. For you, the lives of the people you objectified to power are not important. I want them to obey, not protest and vote without any mode for the candidate you're gonna point out to them. The Left cannot accept such treatment of Polish families and see how ignorance of power leads to their depletion. Cross-border workers should be treated as professional drivers who can cross the border without any problems. We demand that the same decisions be made for workers working in the Czech Republic or Germany. With the border secured in the sanitary facilities, I'm sure it'll work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At this difficult moment, Members of the Left... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Mr President, finish up. ... e.g. Robert Obaz, Catherine Kotula, were with workers at the border. We support their protest. That is why we appeal: open borders for cross-border workers. On behalf of the Left Club, I ask you to reject the government's information about the actions taken to enable work to be done in Poland and in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u114	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Mrs Jolanta Fedak - remotely. Do we have a connection? You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u115	Can you hear me? Yeah, I can hear you. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Prime Minister, because the problem is not merely employment-related, the problem is interdisciplinary. It is not only about Poles who work on the other side of the border, but also about young people who learn on the other side of the border, it is also about people who are being treated on the other side of the border, and vice versa. I would like to persuade you very strongly to make decisions that are expected by the inhabitants of nine border voivodships. Since the reconstruction of local government in Poland in 1990, and especially after Poland joined the European Union along Poland's borders, there has been a very positive process of integration of societies on both sides of the border. Today for many Poles living on this side of the border and for citizens of Germany, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania and Russia on the other side of the border border towns and their infrastructure, schools, hospitals, workplaces, churches, markets, service points have become simply common. The inhabitants of the border use them together and are very strongly connected with everyday existence. For many years they have crossed borders to use these institutions and institutions, as well as companies, because they simply have the closest and safest ones here. This is the biggest motor driving the development of border areas. There were also many mixed families, even though Poles settled settlements on the other side of the border in an increasing number. And yes, there are cities, for example. like Löcknitz in Mecklenburg, in the West Pomerania. Without Poles living there, this city simply does not have the opportunity to develop. Thus, all concerns about the Germanization of western Poland, so often previously reported, are simply not valid. It is Poles who have become more dynamic, they have a great power of penetration. They work in Poland, live in Germany or vice versa. Germany is increasingly working in Poland. It is similar for other borders. We take advantage of cross-border educational, health and service offers. This is the state of affairs for most of our borders. There are unexpected changes, because it is not only Volkswagen or BMW that invest in Poland, but also Polish companies invest on the other side of the border, in Germany. Such an example is Azot's daughter company. Tarnów S.A., which a kilometer from Guben built a factory in which the inhabitants of Gubin work. It is the only chemical company in which the only host families work. At the moment, they simply have absolutely no other employment option. I am aware of the reasons why this border is closed, but it may be exceeded by representatives of various services, e.g. rescue services or border guards, customs services. So why can't their neighbors, who often live next door to them, and who also have their lives tied to this border? They are often their relatives, family members, and it is completely incomprehensible to no one. I would also like to stress that many people use schools and universities on the other side of the border, because it is just the closest. A special educational offer has been prepared for these people. I think if someone started education on the other side of the border, they should just finish it. And right now, schools on the other side of the border are being opened. This is what all local authorities are calling for, so that there are simply special solutions. After all, Poland boasts such model solutions of cities divided by borders, e.g. Słubice - Frankfurt nad Odra (Dzwonek), Gubin - Gubin, Zgorzelec - Görlitz - Cieszyn - Czech Cieszyn, where common communal systems were created for people on both sides of the border. Once again, I ask that people working on the other side of the border, who live in Poland and vice versa... Marshal, why is there a watch in there, and as we say, there's no watch? But it is, it is. Yes, it is. ...to include in the government's actions and to prepare a good, safe offer for these people. There's no way we can leave these people alone and do nothing right now. These ties, which we have been so difficult to tie, may be interrupted, and I would like to draw particular attention to the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation calls on the government: open borders for cross-border workers. We appeal today, we appealed yesterday at a press conference, we appealed last Thursday in Cieszyn at a press conference. The situation of cross-border workers must be understood. These are people who often have a very small distance to go from home to work. These are the people who have been separated, the families have been separated by this forced quarantine. Closed borders is right, but misunderstanding of the situation of cross-border workers is simply pouring out a child with a bath. This is a mistake. We appeal: this situation must end as soon as possible. This is a social group that the government has left out. He didn't come out to meet her, he didn't understand her. He has not intelligently behaved against this group and it will turn out that there will be greater consequences of border closures, misunderstanding of the needs of cross-border workers than the fight against the coronavirus itself. Therefore, I appeal from this place to the government: immediately, as soon as possible, meet the needs of these people, meet the needs of Poles who live at the border. I mean, there's already protests. These protests will certainly not increase safety when it comes to fighting the plague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u118	Thank you very much. Another vote of the Confederate circle, Mr Grzegorz Braun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Who are we talking about here? About exceptional people so determined to work, that they searched for this work all the way abroad, for the price of separation, praise God, so far shorter, not longer, with the family. And now these people are being offered unemployment by Minister Maląg. I hope that, thanks to these protesting people and through us, Minister Maląg will stand faster and not later in view of such a prospect. Will he seek honest work, even abroad, or will he queue for benefits? This is the world on its head, including that message that was falsely reported, about how the government is working on enabling... After all, the government did not work much first because it prevented hundreds of thousands of Poles from working honestly with their families. Millions... The Member commenting, of course, obediently, on the part of the parliamentary majority, is a pseudo-report, said that this is, fortunately, a narrow margin. This is the perspective of this House, this is the perspective of central offices. Hundreds of thousands of honest-working people are narrow margins. Millions, millions. No, the social margin is you who have never worked any other way than on the state board, who have never sought honest work, because... Mr. President, Mr. President. Your marshal is also reporting for this category, isn't he? Your marshal will once again try to review my speech a vista. Mr... Thank you very much, Marshal, thank you. Someone's listening to me. I'm not reviewing something that's in the spirit of culture and normal parliamentary rules. Someone is paying attention to my words. Ladies and gentlemen! About the Confederation appeals to Mr Tuduja, our candidate for President of the Republic of Poland, Krzysztof Bosak, by the mouth of Mr Tuduja, we are stubbornly saying: release the nation from quarantine. The easiest thing to do. It's also... You don't have to build any constructions, you don't have to invoke the Eurocircle law. Well, they're driving -- praise God, I'll say it with fear, because maybe you'll figure something out to stop them -- truck drivers across borders, and they're not in quarantine for two weeks. That's how it's supposed to be. What's the problem? What's the problem with finding out who's working across the border isn't being interned like the rest of the nation? Of course, we call on the general population of Poles to be released from quarantine, and we request that this pseudo-report be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u120	That's where we ended our club appearances. Your Marshal, may I speak in corrigendum mode? There will still be questions, Madame. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please, in the procedure of correction. That is what the Member said. You called the people of Teschen a small piece.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u121	I'm quoting. I have important speeches in writing. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me. Mr. President, there will be time, you may be in the cockroaches... The Member is very rhetorical, but this is really not much about what ethical principles should apply. Please don't assign my person any disrespect to any social group, any problem that people have. I'm not that kind of man, I'm not that kind of politician. Bravo! I understand that the Member accepts my explanations and will apologize to me. Excuse me, miss. Thank you. In this passage I said, there was a background: social fear of unemployment and lack of means of subsistence. 14 million Polish workers employed in Poland also experience these fears, because we do not know whether the coronavirus will last for a month, two months, six months or a year. They all have these concerns. But that's not a correction. Therefore, I used the phrase: Today's government information concerns a narrow (Dawn) piece of this problem. Four million people. Yes. If it's about 100,000. employees... But that's not true. And the companies that operate there? Thank you very much, Member. ...it was in the background of my speech about 14 million employees in Poland that I had the right to use such a phrase. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u122	Thank you very much, Member. It was in corrigendum mode. Let's get to the questions... In corrigendum mode. I was called to the board. No, sir. I was called to the board, even indicated, somewhat stigmatized, your marshal. Your marshal, you did the breach. But the honourable Member apologized, so everything is explained. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u123	I'm simplifying because it wasn't ad personam. You represent a bad regime, a bad government. Mr... And that's why I was addressing you. Thank you very much. But it's nothing personal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u124	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I close the list of Members willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition, will be the first question. You're welcome, sir. The list was closed a long time ago because it was limited. No, sir, I apologize. The list was not limited in any way. Thank you very much. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u125	Okay, Marshal, thank you. The words that came out here today, that's even... You said absolutely nothing about it, completely not about it. This isn't just about the employees. You don't understand the border problem at all. This is about people who have service companies that provide services to Poles, Germans, Czechs. My point is that you have eliminated the border traffic, because you needed it for Mr Morawiecki to say that the European Union is not working. For ideological reasons, you shut down to say, "The Union doesn't work," see. That's why you closed the borders. That's why you created all of this. Split Warsaw, Mr Morawiecki, in half. Take the left bank of Warsaw away from the right bank, there's a river, there's bridges, and say, "People, live, there's going to be less coronavirus." Why do you share other cities that have such specialties? There hasn't been a border in 20 years. The Czech and German borders could be opened. Why? Because they're studying. They've created a system, they've made a deal, they're testing people across the border. When Mr. Morawiecki and Mr. Duda were at the border with these people (the bell), those desperate people who are fighting for their jobs? When were Mr Duda and Mr Morawiecki there? This is contempt, which you have proposed with these unemployment benefits, Minister. Thank you very much. Time's up. You should resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u126	Time's up, sir. I'm asking you to follow the rules. I precede your name with the words: Mr Morawiecki, Mr Andrzej Duda. If I had a minute and a half, I'd say, sir. Yeah, okay, of course. The next question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You still don't see, Minister, the job in the border is gonna collapse. You do not hear the voices of thousands of Poles who have been unemployed and without the possibility of earning. On March 15th, you closed the borders and left people to themselves, with problems, dilemmas and no money, and pretending that's not your problem. People are protesting at the border. They're petitioning the government. You are called by local governments and called by the Euroregions. You're still not doing anything. In Kudov, in Cieszyn, in Zgorzelec, in Kołbaskow there is still paralysis at the border and human dramas begin. Today is April 29th, and the Minister of Labour in the Government of Mateusz Morawiecki says to you: Dear cross-border workers, you can register as unemployed Or you can do some teleworking. This is an outrage, Minister, and this is an outrage that you presented today: instead of organizing pseudo-elections, help people and open borders. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u128	Thank you. The question will be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've closed the borders. A lot of people are grounded, but it's not grounded. It's just for the ride. For many of them it is grounded for work, grounded for the possibility of earning money and often grounded to contact your family. The symbol of these people's despair was a little boy who hugged his dad on the border through a metal fence. Stop pretending you don't see the problem. Only with us, in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, this problem concerns 20,000. Poles who crossed the border every day driving from work. Your role and duty is to help them, so instead of sending them into forced quarantine, send them special passes. Open additional border crossing points where there will be health checks and additional tests. These are the things these people are waiting for today, so instead of running the election, take care of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] helping these people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u130	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Waldemar Sługocki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u131	Good morning. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of cross-border cooperation is extremely important and important. It is an element that caused that pro-integration impulses took place on the border, mainly on the Polish-German border. But this is also the reason that these relations and relationships between communities on both sides of the border: Polish-German, Polish-Czech, Polish-Lithuanian or Polish-Slovak are relatively strong. The relationship concerns not only the cooperation of economic operators, not only education, health services, but also many important human-to-human issues. The majority of inhabitants of the Polish-German, Polish-Czech, Slovak and Lithuanian borders reside on the side of the second Member State of the European Union. Minister! It is unforgivable and unacceptable that your resort has not prepared (the bell) such laws as would allow for these relations, especially business activities, but would also prevent many human dramas. I ask you to intervene in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! More than 12 years ago, on border roads and trails, we cut grounded and connected people. Historical lands, such as: Orava, Spišz or Silesia Cieszyński, no longer treat the border as anything. For them, the border became a place to work together, to do business together. We thought that the time to get the border grounded was never gonna happen again. Unfortunately, the PiS put the grounded again, brutally separated families, often people had to decide about tragic choices: whether to stay home or continue their work abroad. You've wiped out hundreds or even thousands of family businesses that lived out of it. Today at the market in Jabłonka or at the New Market, entrepreneurs say: closed borders, Slovaks do not have what to live for? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, it was a place of work for them. Which is why I'm not asking you when you're gonna open the borders, I'm asking you to do it as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u135	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Today we come with a dramatic appeal of hundreds of thousands of Polish families separated by a wall, which you build, without allowing the possibility to work for those who often have 5 or 6 km to work, just as the inhabitants of Lubawka. $1,000. the employees of the Kamienna Góra district have no job, there is no possibility of moving to work, they will be fired in a moment, just like 20 thousand. Lower Silesians passing through the border every day in Zgorzelec and Görlitz. You share Poles. Some people are forced to live in hotels with their children while teleworking with German hotels because they fear they will lose their jobs. It is about Polish companies that have acquired German and Czech markets over the years, and today they are actually losing these markets, they are simply failing. What I'm saying is that in an unthinkable way, you're also treating your students. Why can five students, seniors from the Police, cross the border without quarantine, because there they finish their Matura exams, and the young people from Görlitz (The Bell) can't do it? For God's sake, take it easy. This is the last time, because for every tragedy of the Polish family at the border you will be responsible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These days, at the borders, also in our Cieszyn, there are desperate people protesting. Just a few weeks ago several tens of thousands of inhabitants of Silesia Cieszyński, Bielski County, Żywiecki County, Bielska-Biała were going to work to conduct business in the Czech Republic or Slovakia. They couldn't find a job in Poland, they took matters into their own hands, they took a job, they run a business there. They deserve respect, Minister. The PiS government, reckless closure of borders and this mandatory quarantine, deprived them of their means of life, offering nothing in return, showing disrespect, separating their families. PiS does not understand that in places such as Silesia Cieszyński even 30% of inhabitants are dependent on income just abroad. The Government of the Czech Republic understands that and there are no such restrictions. It was considered unreasonable. Today, my dear Minister, the time for asking is over. I demand the release of borders so that we, residents of the Bielski, Cieszyński, Żywiecki, Bielska-Biała districts, can return to work abroad, because it is oxygen for us. Thank you. And if you don't understand, we invite you to join us in Cieszyn. We'll explain it to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I live south of Raciborz. A few hundred meters behind my house is a Czech factory, where several hundred of my neighbours work, and in the whole Moravskoslezsky country, the equivalent of the Silesian province, 12 thousand work. Poles and Poles. Around these factories, around my house there are three border crossings, closed, closed, crossings of the local border traffic, which my neighbors often walked to work with. Now they're all going through police and border guards, doing nothing else. At the same time, farmers who grow fields on both sides of the border can pass through these crossings. What's the difference? At the same time, a kilometer away is the large border crossing in the Chałupki (The Bell) through which trucks pass with drivers who do not need to undergo quarantine. Why is it so different? You can find rational solutions, dedicated border crossings of local traffic only for those workers who are still being investigated in their workplaces. Thank you very much. Let me remind you that in the Czech Republic it is possible to carry out, and this does not exceed the ability of the employee, a commercial test for Coronavirus. Okay, Member. Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira. I appeal for common sense and good... But, I'm sorry, I'm... Prime Minister! Poland is not yours, it is all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u141	Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the numerous calls made by my constituents living in border areas to allow them to work abroad, I ask you: Why do you prevent this work from being done by the few Poles who have not yet lost their jobs because other countries care more about them than their own country? This is perhaps one of the last social groups that are not waiting for a cheap, mostly illusory government aid, but want them to work so that only the state doesn't bother them to work, to earn their own and their families' lives. Why would your sick phobias, your fear of abroad, want to shift to local communities that live in good relationships that draw the best from both sides of the border? Don't measure everyone with your measure. Sometimes the real enemy doesn't go far beyond the mountains and forests, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But right around the corner, in your hearts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I was surprised to accept this information, that in a week's time we will find information on how the government will work in the interests of Poles and Poles, the Polish government - you always emphasize this state - towards Polish workers and workers. I'll answer you right away. Members of the Left have already made such concrete proposals, even if Przemysław Koperski, Member of the Left, made such an interpellation to Minister Jacek Sasin to open more border crossings, a colleague of Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic personally had to intervene in the so-called case. a collective quarantine for which conditions were not at all present. So it is really about what you do, on the one hand you close the borders, you do not use ideas that are already falling, and on the other hand the Members and Members of the Left must intervene at the border, just like Kotula's colleague, like Mr Obaz (The Bell) to know what to do with it. So I suggest that you draw from the experience that we have here, and monitor what the voivodships do, because precisely in the Lubuskie voivodship there are scandalous conditions when it comes to the so-called. collective quarantine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Poles who live and work in border areas about what the government was doing by imposing such barbaric criteria for quarantine on these inhabitants. Please tell me, but also tell these hundreds of thousands of our compatriots, as it is that drivers driving vehicles in international transport from this quarantine are released, and the hairdresser, doctor or builder who works 3, 5, 7, 15 km from the Polish border on the German or Czech side is so quarantined. How is it that a trucker can drive all over Europe and a hairdresser from Zgorzelca can't cross that border? Why do you put people before dramatic choices: unemployment and poverty, and the lack of money for life, or the separation of family and human drama? Where's the logic in all this? Where's the empathy and where's the compassion? Where's the specific plan? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're building our people a hell of a choice between despair and poverty. Finally, listen to the voices of local government officials from Lubawka, Szczecin, Zgorzelec and Cieszyn and their counterparts from the other side of the border. They have answers, they have ideas on how to solve these dramas.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Mr Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What is happening at the borders today is not only the problem of those people who live there, it is our problem, everyone, because it is unacceptable that after more than 20 years since the opening of some borders and dozens of years since Poland's entry into the European Union to face such great dilemmas as this, or someone who crossed the unwelcome border, will not be able to enter Poland in a moment, because he got confused and drove somewhere across the border for 5 minutes. In all this, however, in this whole illness there is some sense that is worth taking advantage of today. I have a question for the Minister, which may be worth asking: Are you somehow helping local governments, or are you trying today to help not only individuals who have problems, but also local authorities in this difficult situation? Because it is the local government today that answers all these questions and lacks help, lacks words, lacks support, which government [[♪ The bell ♪]] should not only with words but, above all, with actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, when I listened to this information, there is one thing I am sure: you do not understand us here from this central Poland completely, you do not know what we feel there in these border regions - I am from Szczecin. Minister, I expected that there would indeed be an analysis showing that these borders cannot be opened, that this poses some great threat. There's nothing in that information. After all, this is a simple matter - to examine the number of infections within a 30 km radius of one and on the other side of the border and say: indeed there is a serious problem, we cannot open these borders, or to say: indeed 30 km this way and we can cross the border this way. I appeal: do such an analysis and just say honestly that something like this can be done. Because I believe it deeply, and I see it can be done. And the other thing. There is the European Commission's position that we should open borders. Question: How Poland, how the Polish government [[♪ The bell ♪]] They approach this and what are you planning in the near future in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u151	High Seym! Minister! I was in Cieszyn last week to support cross-border workers and local activists who follow them on the possibility of legally earning a normal life. At the moment, those people who protested in the last days in Szczecin, in Zgorzelec, in Cieszyn, in other border cities, are faced with dramatic choices: either break away from their family and earn a living, or stay with their family and lose their livelihood. In such a situation the Polish government should not place these people. What else is cross-border traffic, tourist traffic, interstate traffic, occasional traffic, and what else is the movement of whether we live just below Warsaw to work in the center of Warsaw, or these people about dozens of kilometers to their place of work. Let's let these people work normally. Let's open up the economy. Let's give people a chance. A normal life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question: Why are you acting against the European Commission's guidelines? The Minister knows very well that on 30 March the European Commission issued a communication on the freedom of movement of workers during the epidemic. The European Commission recommends that cross-border workers be able to move freely to their jobs, to maintain their livelihoods. This is the first case. The second thing, Minister, is a test. I do not know if the Minister is aware, but a project has been submitted to test workers of social services homes, other permanent residences. Why aren't you doing anything about it for a month and a half? Why isn't there a government project on testing workers for the places that are most at risk? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pull up the Civil Coalition project, use it, and get to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u154	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would also like to address the Prime Minister who is not present in this Chamber, because he comes from Wrocław and was once a voivodship councilman, that is, he took responsibility for the fate of our regional community, which is a border region neighbouring directly and with the Czech Republic, and with Germany, with Saxony. Have you listened to the protesters' voices recently in Zgorzelec? They shouted, "Take care of us, not the elections." Even if there were only a thousand of them, and on a national scale, it's over 100,000. people who are not driven by fanaberism, but who cannot work abroad in border regions or are separated from their families, would have the right to expect you to lean on their problem. If you cannot do it yourself, prepare tests for these people, then foreign partners will help you (the bell) because they also support the demands of Poles who want to work honestly, even if this work is done... Thank you very much, sir. ...in the immediate vicinity of the Polish border.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u156	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ms Marlena Maląg, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u157	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the health and life of Poles is most important to the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. All the sharpenings that have been introduced are primarily used to ensure that we take care of the health, the lives of Poles. First of all, the actions that have been taken from the very beginning show that they are effective actions that help us through this difficult time we are, the time of epidemics, go through as dry as possible. These sharpenings are sometimes difficult, but we are already at the stage of showing planned measures to defreeze the economy. And it's not like we're gonna say... The Prime Minister clearly, showing the next stages, did not indicate the date, because they depend on the epidemic situation, so how these next stages, in which we will freeze it, will contribute to the epidemic situation in the country. Protecting jobs for both domestic and foreign workers is unique for us. First of all, what you have raised here in your statements, that the shields you give 1, 2, 3 etc. are not working, is not true. I have repeatedly, recently also from the Parliamentary Speaker, said that for each of these proposals, more than 2 million proposals are made by specific people, specific entrepreneurs. We today can say with all responsibility that the funds that have been transferred to specific companies, which we show each day, are primarily designed to protect jobs. We can boldly and with full responsibility say that we have protected at least 2 million jobs today. It has already been transferred over PLN 3 billion to companies. So it's not as you put it here that we're just talking about the proposals and we're bragging about them. No, this is concrete support for specific people, because the Polish family is the most important to us. And this will continue to be done by us. We cooperate with local governments and support these local authorities. You have called here, Mr Szczerba has recalled that we are not working together. We're working together, we're helping local governments at this difficult time. We are aware that tasks are extremely difficult, which is why the government is there with local governments. And as far as what the Member has already said twice today, we are to introduce a regulation which will be related to the fact that people working in social services homes, but also the pensioners, have tests carried out, we are doing so. Let me remind you that at 824 social services houses today we have 23 in quarantine. We've introduced rotational working time, and not today, not yesterday, just a long time ago, and these employees are... Commissioner, this is not the subject that you are responding to. But it was too, ladies and gentlemen. So if we're talking about job protection, support, it's the government that's planned and systematically sharing it. The Prime Minister has announced further developments in terms of freezing the economy. Let me repeat: we do not give specific dates, but this is a deliberate, planned action for this reason... But when will you allow cross-border workers to cross the border? Mr... Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...that we're going to investigate an epidemic for safety. The protection of jobs is also included in the mechanisms of the crisis shield. Our actions are aimed primarily at protecting jobs to support Polish families. A few hundred thousand people. Then make it possible for you to cross the border by means of passes. We are sensitive to this, which is why we are implementing our programs, both 500+, which is implemented in the coordination of benefits and other programmes. They mainly serve Poles and Poles and Polish families. Thank you very much. Minister, you haven't answered. Minister, can you answer me? This is a scandal, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u158	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (print No 279). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Romanowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending the law - the Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. The aim of the project is to introduce into the legal order comprehensive solutions allowing for the rapid isolation of a violent person from a violent person in situations where it poses a threat to the life or health of the household. This is not the case with solutions or amendments to the Domestic Violence Act, which currently comprehensively regulates this issue, but with amendments to the Civil Procedure Code and the Police Act and the Military Gendarmerie Act. With regard to the amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, we are introducing a separate section here in the form of a section on the recognition of cases for the obligation of a violent person to leave a jointly occupied apartment. We are therefore introducing a separate procedure, which provides for a number of simplifications to speed up the recognition of such cases. In particular, these are arrangements by requiring the court to provide the prosecutor with a copy of the application and to notify him of the time limits for the hearing, as well as a solution concerning the possibility for the court to carry out the service of letters through the Police or the Military Gendarmerie. The time limits for the court's decision and the time limits for the granting of the security have also been laid down, i.e. 30 and 3 days respectively, as well as immediate enforcement of court orders. As regards the amendment of the Police Act, the proposal introduces - and this is an important solution here, the first in the process of separating the perpetrator of violence from the victim of violence - a new solution, a new right for the Police in the form of an opportunity to issue to the person who is violent in the family and who poses a threat to the life or health of the person affected by the violence, an immediate order to leave the apartment and its immediate environment, and a ban on approaching this apartment and its immediate environment. The rules regulate the conduct of police officers in detail, in particular information obligations on the person who is using such violence, as well as on the person affected by the violence in the family with the kind of support that the person can obtain. They are regulated: the way in which evidence is collected that there is violence, the way in which complaints are lodged and recognised, the rules for the delivery of correspondence. There is also a possibility for the court to question minors. The duration of those orders or prohibitions shall be determined. It shall, as a general rule, be 14 days, unless it is shortened by the court after recognition of the complaint, possibly extended in the event of application of the freezing order. As regards the Military Gendarmery and Military Enforcement Authorities Act, the project introduces solutions similar to those applied in the case of the Police Act as regards persons subject to the jurisdiction of the Military Gendarmery. With regard to amendments to the Code of Offences, the draft introduces a new type of offence providing for a sentence of imprisonment, restriction of liberty or fine for failure to comply with an order issued by the Military Gendarmery or the Police, or by a court or tribunal ordering the court to leave the apartment. As regards the amendment to the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct, the draft introduces an accelerated procedure when the offence is committed. With regard to the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, the project exempts a violent person from the burden of judicial costs. The last amended act is the law on anti-violence in the family. The draft shall be amended in accordance with Article. 11a, which constitutes a substantive condition of the order requiring a violent person to leave the apartment and its immediate surroundings. The new wording extends the existing powers of the court so that they are consistent with the powers granted to the police or the Military Police. In addition, in the mouth. 2 it is clearly stated (The Bell) that the person affected by the violence who left the apartment is also subject to the regulations of these regulations. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The need for these changes is the result of an assessment of the existing rules. With the proposed regulations, the police will receive real tools to effectively combat family violence. Poland will join a group of countries where domestic violence victims get the best protection. In this way, we interrupt a spiral of violence and silence. Please accept these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Grzegorz Lorek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u161	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws, print No 279. Today, we are discussing a very important government bill that responds to the challenges of introducing solutions for the rapid isolation of a violent person from a violent person when it poses a threat to the life or health of the household. Coronavirus epidemics have caused them to occur in families where there hasn't been any tension before. While staying home, each family had to confront their own mechanisms of coping with the crisis. Negative emotions - and those among spouses, and those among children, because we are only talking about violence related to marriage, with couples, while there is also other violence, violence used by children towards parents - occur between people, then they are transferred to children. Isolation is conducive to conflict, stress, and this can stimulate the aggression of people who haven't had it before. The tendency to use violence, and these behaviors escalate. Family violence has no longer been seen as a private matter, involving only violent and violent people. In the case, the Ministry of Justice took the floor, which prepared the rules we are talking about, so that the perpetrator of domestic violence will have to leave the apartment immediately and the victims will be effectively protected. Guidelines have also been established for those who support victims under the Justice Fund. NGOs highlight the urgent need for legislative changes due to the growing wave of violence in relation to isolation. In this state of affairs, the procedated project gives effective instruments of legal protection to a violent person. It allows for specific arrangements for this category of cases, which allow the court to carry out its proceedings efficiently. It is proposed, among others. introducing a separate procedure in cases involving a violent person to leave a shared dwelling and its immediate surroundings and to prohibit him from approaching the apartment and the immediate surroundings, which is very important. It shall be possible for the court to issue a specific order on the freezing and service of court decisions and pleadings by the police or the Military Gendarmery. In addition, the proposed law lays down the time limits for the court to issue an order terminating the proceedings and a safeguard order, with the maintenance of the principle of immediate enforceability of the order issued in the event of a change of circumstances both before and when it is valid. To facilitate the applicant's rapid access to court, it is to be proposed to exempt him from the legal costs envisaged in the amendment of the Law of 28 July 2005 on judicial costs in civil matters. A completely new instrument aimed at more effective protection of the violent person is the addition of the Police, as well as the Military Gendarmerie as regards its competence to issue an order immediately leaving the jointly occupied apartment and the immediate surroundings or a restraining order to approach the apartment and the immediate surroundings. To this end, the provisions of the Law of 6 April 1990 on the Police and the Act of 24 August on the Military Gendarmery and the Military Ordering Authorities shall be amended. Provisions providing for the possibility of introducing insulating measures to protect victims of domestic violence exist, among others. in Austria, whose legislation has become exemplary for other countries. Austrian instruments to combat violence in the family are among others. measures to ensure the immediate isolation of the victim's victim in the event of violence, the order to leave the home of the person in difficulty and its immediate surroundings, the order to leave the apartment and the immediate environment issued by the court. These are regulations that are already in force in the countries of the European Union. I will also tell you that in France, it is enough to go to the pharmacy, pass on a certain password, which means domestic violence, and action is being taken. Designed solutions should really improve the situation of people affected by violence. They will help to combat violence in the family, as well as help to shape proper relations between members (The Bell), while maintaining the safety and dignity of those affected by violence in the family. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice I strongly recommend further proceedings over the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position regarding print No 279, of course talking about domestic violence. The project you have launched as a government of law and justice is certainly a project that is part of the fight when it comes to violence in the family. We know that, in fact, with domestic violence, public institutions started fighting less than 20, maybe a little over 20 years ago, but the previous governments and the current government were very different about domestic violence. I would like to remind you what the fight against domestic violence was like. The first fundamental law was certainly the 2005 Act, and here it was certainly the great merit of Minister Izabela Jaruga-Nowacka. A further law which amended this law was the 2010 Act. It was introduced by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. She was the one who banned physical punishments in family education, she introduced interdisciplinary teams, she gave a new range of organizations, the management of the National programme against violence in the family. Things have really changed. New centers were being built, money was going to local governments, and this support for victims of violence was certainly better and bigger. A fundamental, even milestoned step was certainly taken in 2015, when the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL adopted a law ratifying the Istanbul Convention. It really was a nice step. While we were still working on this ratification, we managed to ensure that the rape was ex officio and not at the victim's request. We were very lucky then because President Bronisław Komorowski was the President-in-Office and he signed this law in April 2015. Poland has ratified the Istanbul Convention and this is really the end of the convention. The current President-in-Office answered the question about the Convention in March 2017 - it is best not to apply it. Unfortunately, in 2016 we heard that in the Ministry of Justice there was ongoing work on the termination of this convention, and, after all, what you presented today in this project is the implementation of one of the demands, from the provisions of this convention. What happened next? Later you served on New Year's Eve, 31 December 2018, a shameful bill, you directed it to a public consultation that said that one-time violence was not a violence that said that local governments did not have to accept municipal strategies, and that the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło even said to the local authorities of Zakopane: you are brave. It was your proposal to women who were victims of family violence. That's not enough, you took money from a lot of organizations, NGOs, among others. Women's Rights Center, which has been fighting domestic violence for over 20 years, has helped victims. That's what all these years you've been helping the victims of domestic violence. Today you bring, yes, a good project and we will certainly support it. After years of humiliating women, the hell of the women you gave them, today you bow to them. I don't know, maybe because the presidential election is coming up. I want to tell you that we are going to take this bow and today we are going to tell you: I am checking because we are afraid that this bill has seen its light just before the elections, but after the elections of this project it may no longer be. That is why today, your marshal, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I apply for immediate accession after the first reading, without referring the project to the committee, to proceed with this project. Let's do it right now, right here and now, all the more so because there are special circumstances and conditions: there's a pandemic, there's quarantine, the victims are locked up with the perpetrators, so there's no time, there's no time for committees, there's no time for any delay. Really, in many Polish families, houses are held the hell of women, in the privacy of the house, during the pandemic. I therefore ask that we proceed to second reading as soon as possible without referring the draft to the committee. We can afford this as an opposition, because good projects for people, for women, for victims (the bell) of violence, for the weaker we are always able to support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u164	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The left-wing club called on Marshal Witek to proceed as soon as possible, immediately, over a government law allowing immediate isolation of the perpetrator of violence from the victims. Marshal Witek listened to our appeal. Thank you. For years, women's organisations have been asking for police powers to stop cataclysing and protecting victims' lives and health, and today, at a time of pandemic, we can see how much we need these solutions. Twice a day, the Ministry of Health reports further cases of infections and deaths due to Coronavirus. You don't report the deaths of a few hundred women murdered each year in your homes. You do not inform that Poland is in the very forefront of Europe in the number of suicides of children also abused by their loved ones. Police headquarters have not reported 0.5 million domestic interventions a year for almost a decade. You do not inform, because it is a shame that the state in the centre of Europe is not able to guarantee basic security for people, offering only slogans about the holiness of the Polish family and suffering which supposedly ennobs. Stay home, you say. In a house that can be a place of execution, rape, beating, bullying. 30% - domestic violence has increased in countries that have introduced self-insulation, because the crisis creates frustration, and frustration must explode. If there's more suffering, if government statistics are talking about nearly 100,000. The victims of domestic violence a year, and research says it's the tenth part of the real scale of the phenomenon? All these domestic tragedies and deaths have happened not because of the indifference of neighbours, but because of the indifference of subsequent governments to the problem of family violence. When you, Minister Ziobro, took over the position of Minister in 2015, you assumed responsibility, literally, for law and justice, for the rights of all victims of crime and justice for perpetrators and victims. And the first thing you did was to jump into a fund called you guys, sarcastically, the Justice Fund. You took away grants from organizations that helped women and children with the greatest achievements and achievements because you didn't like their equal views. Some you sent the police to, and you plunged them into the mud of allusion and disgusting suggestions. And what was the point of it if, in the end, you admit to them all, we're all right that the perpetrator needs to be isolated immediately and that the right to life and security is more important than the home comfort of the aggressors? A few days ago, millions that could be used to help the victims went from ministerial money to the foundation of an exorcist priest, a priest who, I quote, fights the demons of vegetarianism, and uses salceson for exorcism. You're gonna exorcise the tortured and abused? What is this? Ministry of Justice or Ministry of Funny Steps? In the southern part of Lubuskie, in the first year of your government, 4 or 5 times the number of victims of the crime was helped than a year before. That was the result of the jump. At the time, the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy said that 500+ solves the problem of domestic violence, because beaten women can move out. In fact, it's a great idea, especially in today's reality. And the blue card still cannot be filled remotely. Why? Just do not hide yourself from GDPR after passing on sensitive data of 30 million citizens to the Polish Post Office. And what did you do for the kids you beat up right now who don't go to school and don't have anyone to tell that their father or mother is beating them up? Coronavirus exposed all the omissions of your government. You took care, Minister, of taking over the prosecution and the courts, to admit after five years that neither the ministerial funds nor the courts or the prosecution are effective in rescuing women and children, that this must be done by the police, which is not your responsibility. We appreciate that. And we appreciate you copying proven solutions that have long been written in foreign languages. For 20 years, I've been looking at the faces of people in my BABA association every day. I looked into my father's eyes, whose daughter slit her wrists because her grandfather raped her. I looked into the eyes of the children whose father had killed his mother. I want to look these people in the eye and tell them that the Sejm thought their lives and security were more important than counting the Gowin sword. Let's go, time's running out, tick-tock, tick-tock. Some laws have been adopted here on an express basis in a matter of hours. Today and tomorrow, three women will die. Today, tomorrow, the farthest Friday morning will kill the tortured child. Tell the president to sign this instantly. He'll be able to do something good before he loses his power. Tick-tock, tick-tock. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just don't let the passing time confuse TikTok. Thank you very much. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, I request that the law be referred immediately to the next reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mrs Agnieszka Ścigaj, remotely. I know we already have a connection, right? You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 concerning the proposed law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, print No 279. The law is affecting a very serious phenomenon, a phenomenon that is, in fact, in this difficult situation in which our country is in, unfortunately, increasing. All the statistics show that not only are there increasing and increasing violence in families that have already been diagnosed and identified as those who have used this violence, but also new families, new situations. The conflict situation, the loss of security at every level, every citizen unfortunately involves the fact that it triggers bad emotions. Very often people who feel frustrated, before, have not had such a situation so far that they have shown violence. Unfortunately, this is what happens, and these days we have the data we have. The law is very good, it's a law that has been proposed by non-governmental organisations that have been involved in violence for years. It's a bill I've often proposed. As Kukiz15, we talked about this as a necessary solution. A law that has existed and operates in other countries for many, many years and has indeed effectively protected victims. It was just reprehensible that very often the victim had to take her children and run away from home. The unsub ran wild, and for years she pursued her rights, very often in court, alone. This is finally a step in the right direction. We are ready to support this bill, but at the same time we appeal - because this law is only a legal solution absolutely necessary and we are, like the other clubs, in favour of proceding it immediately - that in the shield that we are proceeding at the moment, it is important to come to the situation that not only isolation and rapid response is needed, but above all psychological support, psychiatric support. We're having problems with all this right now. Rehab treatment, which is currently not fully operational. It is about supporting interdisciplinary teams, social assistance workers by providing them with appropriate tools, protection measures. But it is also important to put in place a solution that will help to ensure that these families are not left to themselves, but that someone visits them so that psychological support is possible, because response and isolation alone are very often not enough. You have to help these families, you have to help the children, someone has to visit them. Unfortunately, social isolation has also stopped this process and all other services are unable to participate in it. We offer a supplement for the hero, which we mentioned in previous proposals, in our proposal of a shield, also a supplement for social workers, for psychologists and people who operate in interdisciplinary teams. Let us help local authorities to support, in terms of control and psychological assistance, also those families where such situations can actually take place. But what is really important is the prevention of visits. So it is important to support these services and local authorities. You can see how many local governments have jobs at the moment. As far as local governments are concerned, it is important not to burden them with the organisation of elections, about which we do not really know whether they will be held, what time and how, because no one knows. The idea is to exploit all the possibilities and channel all the forces into real support for local governments in this type of activity. Of course, the Polish Coalition Club will support this project. Please proceed as soon as possible. It is really necessary. And as we said before, all the good projects you are putting together will be supported and all the bad ones will be criticised. That's why the motion... And it is important that, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we also have a discussion to put in place the additions and appropriate measures for social assistance workers in Shield 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u168	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u169	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In order not to forget, on behalf of the Circle of the Polish Confederation, I request that this really bad project be rejected at first reading. We're not treating the plague with cholera, ladies and gentlemen. We do not treat authentic, real diseases, let us not solve the related problems by infecting the legal and system of the Lightest Republic. This infection, this French, ladies and gentlemen, is spreading in this way: first a socio-economic disaster is generated and then it is treated symptomatically in very different ways. First, not to go deeper, until Bismarck's Prussia and other regrettable patterns, an example from recent times, from recent moments. This is about the primary causes of this ad hoc evil mentioned by you. Lock people in their homes, don't let them go out into the spring sun to gain natural immunity and oxygenate, so that they can function better. Lock them up there and generate social problems, of course. Foreign patterns. Austria. Oh, no, thank you. These are the patterns that... Well, at least in my family tradition, the best Austrian we remember is one SA-man who played the piano when the front went through. Australia, for the same letter. If you want to mess with your family, ladies and gentlemen, there is a legal obligation in Australia that there is a de facto family council. Before we bring home the policeman, the policeman, well - my God, these are great inventions - first you call your aunt, uncle, grandparents, if they are. I say this by bowing down to all the cases that are to be condemned, and the Confederation condemns them. We, statemen, people who stand firm on the basis of traditional civilization principles of law, of course, cannot look at villains other than those who need to be brought before the courts, regardless of gender, regardless of whether they are women's boxers or are bloody women who break men who also suffer in silence somewhere, after their homes. But I say to bring the policeman, the policeman, to everyone's neck, this is the treatment of the plague with cholera. The Istanbul Convention - yes, it should be denounced as soon as possible. Yes, it is! For she stigmatizes the family as such, pointing to the accusatory finger, the government, unfortunately, the family as the mother of evil, the generator of tragedy, and not the continuity of tradition. And that's wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Let us condemn, chase, and do not hesitate to punish criminals with example, but let us not create a mechanism that will be the next... It will be no longer a gate, but, well, a hole in the wall, an invasion of the privacy of Poles, because if there is already this gate or a hole made, then different things can be introduced there. This can be used as a useful excuse to deepen this interference. So I've asked you to reject this bad project, and I'm asking you to listen to your own voices so that you can go back and rewind the tape so that you can hear you talk about the terrible reasons why people stay locked up, choking around their homes. Release the nation from quarantine. That's what you guys do. Don't generate an economic disaster, which must be followed by a social disaster, a fall - that is - morality. There's not enough of you here to hear loud enough, but I hear you're booing inside. Yes, you have to go back to the roots, to the tradition, not to treat symptomatically. I would be grateful, Your Marshal, for putting our (Ringing) motion to throw into the trash of this evil project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Sejm Bureau is based on Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a limit of 30 questions for clubs according to the following parities: Law and Justice - 15, Civic Coalition - 9, Left - 3, PSL-Kukiz15 I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every year, 400 and 500 women are killed by domestic violence. They're murdered by their partners, killed by a beating or committed suicide. For years, NGOs, ombudsman, have been working on this bill that we are looking at today. And from this point on, I want to thank them all for finally bringing this project to the Sejm meeting and conducting its reading that it is a government project. The BABA Foundation, the Women's Rights Centre, the Blue Line, Amnesty International and many, many other organizations, people asked, begged, appealed, said that it was necessary to isolate the perpetrator from the victim, that it is not the victim's responsibility to ensure his safety in the face of such a terrible tragedy as domestic violence. This is a good change that needs to be dealt with immediately, because unfortunately the current law and justice policy was determined by Beata Szydło, who praised the only municipality in Poland (Dzwonek), which did not implement the anti-violence law. Let's do this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u173	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! Marshal, marshal. High Izbo! Dear Minister, For 20 years women and women's environments have been demanding comprehensive regulation on the protection of women from violence and countering this terrible pathology of social life. The efficient, rapid and effective isolation of the perpetrator of violence from the victim is a standard for women's rights organisations that have been seeking for years. It would save a lot of women's lives from degenerates and wouldn't have to run away with children from home to wander around the shelters. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the government is really going to proceed as soon as possible with this law, which introduces a strong legal instrument for the protection of women and their families, as requested by the Left. Do you really want to help women as soon as possible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is necessary, especially during the pandemic, when domestic violence has increased dramatically. Thank you very much, Member. Or is it the presidential election and the cynical win of women's votes? But if you freeze this project in the Seym freezer, the women will never forgive you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u175	No, but this animosity is really out of place. State follow this cause-effect chain, not symptomatic. First, you give Poles inefficient courts, and then you look for a procedure that will speed them up. First of all, you are making the officers feel sorry for their discretion in their actions - the arena of such performances and ridiculous, and the Republic is horrible in recent weeks - and then you have to clarify it all, order it under pretext, do not give God a fight against some sensitive virus, supposed to be a pandemic. This is the world of Żolibor Socialists, where there are heroic problems that would not be known in the normal world, i.e. in a world that does not separate the Polish people from the civilization trunk (The Bell), from authentic sources of the rule of law, justice. Question: "When will you tell the Istanbul Convention and is the case at the workshop?"
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u176	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u177	Dear Marshal! Fellow Members! Help for victims of violence in the family must be effective, not just declared on paper. One of the basic conditions for its effectiveness is e.g. quick isolation of the perpetrator from the victims. That is why I welcome this project, Minister, and I know that the 90,000, according to official data, victims of violence in the family are waiting for this project. However, as my previous speakers have already said here, it would not have been a project if it had not been for years of fighting NGOs. The first one is the Women's Rights Center, which started fighting violence in the family more than 20 years ago, was often ridiculed. But like I said, the law is one thing, and the law must be effective. And that's why, Minister, I have a question: What does access to medical services look like, especially in small towns? Medical examination is often the only evidence in court because witnesses are often afraid to testify. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm just finishing up, just one more question. Training for police officers and military policemen. How many police officers and military police officers are you going to take on this training? Another thing, working with third-sector organisations. I hope that the Justice Fund will support those NGOs that have been fighting violence for years, this terrible phenomenon, and not just organisations like the one already mentioned here founded by the exorcist. Thank you so much and I apologize for exceeding the time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u179	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we are investigating can save lives and protect the health of many women and children in Poland. Therefore, we should immediately start reading again, speeding up the adoption and entry into force of these important provisions. For too long, despite the appeal of the various environments, we had to wait for legislation to effectively isolate the perpetrators of violence. The bill is one thing, and reality is brutal. There is a Świętokrzyskie Women's Rights Center at my parliamentary office in Kielce. Every day workers receive calls from abused domestic abuse victims. There are dramatic cases where the police, when they arrive with an intervention, directly informs how much work they have in relation to the pandemic, and another call may be sanctioned by a mandate. A court restraining order is generally violated. By inaction of the government for years, Poland has been engulfed with another epidemic: beat up and mentally persecuted women and children. That's why it's time to change. Time for healthy Poland (The Bell) and a new hope for women and abused people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u181	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have long been calling for extraordinary measures to protect victims of violence. Now, at the time of universal isolation, they are particularly important. Many provisions in this project should be considered correct, but it is more important to ask whether specific assistance measures by the Ministry will follow these rules, whether organisations supporting victims of violence will receive additional resources and whether they will be able to help effectively. You can see an increase in the number of requests for intervention, e.g. on the Blue Line. Given only April, there's 70%. more e-mail applications. These reports are more emotional, they're even dramatic. We all need to be sure that every woman, every innocent child, that they will receive help from the state, and that, unfortunately, there is no such certainty, because we remember your ungrateful actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We remember how you wanted to legalize violence by saying that one beating wasn't violence. Thank you very much. I'm just gonna finish this, one sentence. We remember Mrs. Beata Szydło... But that's not a question. She praised Zakopane for not introducing the law on anti-violence in the family. Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis. We remember all your actions. We need to ensure that people feel safe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u183	High Izbo! Domestic violence in Poland is systemic and deeply rooted in our culture and tradition. Saying, when a man doesn't beat a baby, her liver rots, doesn't come out of nowhere. Unfortunately, too often the Polish Catholic Church adds to this, telling abused women from pulpit or confessionals: the family is sacred, you must carry your cross. A few years ago, the Minister of Justice, Jarosław Gowin, did not want to sign the anti-violence convention because he is threatening the Polish traditional family because he obliges you to eradicate prejudices and bad customs and traditions. It's a good thing the government wants to help victims of violence and isolate the perpetrators. But how does the government want to educate against violence? How does he want to fight the causes of violence? How much money will the government spend, how many millions of public television will spend out of these 2 billion [[♪ The bell ♪]] For anti-violence education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u184	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is very much needed and I hope it will come into force as soon as possible. However, I have two questions. First. A lot is heard in the public opinion about overcrowded accommodation facilities or homeless shelters. The bill of conduct assumes that the perpetrator of domestic violence will be handed over to such places by the police. Where will the torturer be placed when all the accommodations are occupied? Do you have any alternative? Who will provide transport of such a person e.g. to the neighboring village, if there's an opening there? How will the police verify potential abusers? Is one application sufficient for the perpetrator of domestic violence to be ordered to leave the place occupied with the victim? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u186	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the end, the battered women, the abused children, were faced with a bill that gives them a sense of security in their own home, which gives the police the opportunity to isolate the perpetrator of violence immediately, without courts, without procedures, so that they can sleep peacefully. It just wonders why it's so late and why now. Because there's a problem, ladies and gentlemen. My concern is the fact that the act is qualified. This act at the time of violation by the perpetrator of the prohibition, the order issued by the police is qualified as a misdemeanor. Why? Doesn't that give the perpetrator the opportunity to break this crime? There are too few punishments for the oppressors and perpetrators of domestic violence. There should be restrictions that give family, mothers and children a sense of security. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a difficult time, an important project, and a very sensitive area for the protection of victims of violence. My question arises from the concern for minor children raised by perpetrators of domestic violence. The bill assumes immediate departure from the apartment by the perpetrator. What will be the procedure for leaving the premises if the victim is a single parent? This should be of particular interest to us, because children pulled out of home hell can be pushed into another trauma. Who's gonna take care of these kids? What will the process of taking custody of minors look like? Does the government plan to train police officers or military police officers to deal with the victims of child abuse? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u191	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Violence in the family is not a unique situation, but unfortunately a brutal everyday situation. Only official reports show that there are nearly 90,000 victims of violence a year. People, and 3/4 of the victims are women. In this situation, you must not forget that you have been doing everything consistently for years to deprive those victims of support. Let me just remind you: it was your stubborn president who said not to apply the anti-violence convention, that your government consistently refuses to finance organizations that fight violence, and did not grant grants, e.g. on the Blue Line. Therefore, I would like to ask: When will the government change its approach so that people experiencing violence can receive real support and feel safe in Poland? At this point, I would like to thank all feminist, children's, LGBT+ and the Ombudsman, all who work hard every day (the bell) to help victims of violence. They're the reason this project is being processed today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u192	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that today we are debating a draft law on such an important issue as the protection of people affected by domestic violence, through their rapid and effective isolation from those who use violence. I'm glad we're doing this art project. 53 of the Istanbul Convention, a convention which the applicants have repeatedly announced to denounce. This article obliged us to take the necessary measures to ensure that victims of domestic violence can apply for appropriate protection orders and prohibitions, as this draft law does. I am pleased that you are finally taking advantage of the achievements of women's organizations that you have so recently cut public funding. While this project is a step in the right direction, I do have a few questions about the current actions. At the moment, domestic violence is increasing due to a very difficult situation, isolation and closure. How do police (the bell) and public authorities ensure the safety of people exposed to violence? Has there been a system of aid during a pandemic for people exposed to violence, and has additional telephone lines been activated where they can be contacted for help? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u194	Thank you very much, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u195	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! The assumptions presented for the revision of the Penal Code and the actions are the right step in a very good direction. We take this as something to announce comprehensive care of the victims of domestic violence. Of course, the first issue is intervention. The perpetrator of violence from victims, often children and women, must be separated immediately. My question concerns this next, second stage, which you may not be pursuing, psychological-therapeutic assistance and support. After intervention, people, mainly women, children, often older parents, need to be helped to find themselves in a new reality. These are often very traumatic choices, connected with the continuation of work and education. I therefore ask: Do you anticipate - and I convey the call of various actors, often of the non-governmental sector - that this psychological and therapeutic support (The Bell) will be parallel? Will you stop what has been the experience of recent years and transfer further funds to the Women's Rights Centre, the issue of support? The last point is the transfer of further funds to telephone and e-mail counselling, which has been limited recently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Romanowski. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u197	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to the issues that have been raised, it is worth noting the history of this project. We started work on this project shortly after the start of our mission in the Ministry of Justice, already in 2016. Years 2017 and 2018 was a time of comparative legal research, and extensive empirical research was carried out, financed through projects from the Justice Fund, and legislative work. This is undoubtedly a very difficult and complex issue that required extensive research and analysis. I would like to point out that, indeed, as it has been raised here, the request for such solutions has been appearing for many years, for several years. I'll remind you of the history of this project. As soon as we came to the Ministry of Justice, we started working on it. The question arises: Why has this request not been realized earlier, when they ruled the Civic Platform and PSL for 8 years, then he was also raised? I think the answer is that we're not dealing with ideology, we're solving the real problems of victims of crime and the real prosecution of perpetrators of these crimes, the alleged perpetrators - not ideology. I think this is the answer to a lot of comments and comments. I would also like to point out that, in our view, this is a necessary solution to protect the family so that the family, which is an important basic social cell, really plays its important role, which no institution is able to replace. But in order for that to happen, this kind of solution is necessary. In our view, violence has no ideological colors. or politically, it's not right-wing or left-wing, it's just violence. It must be combated. This is in our view a solution which at this point complements the system without which this system, which has been operating for years, is inefficient. Regarding the point, Mr Braun's question, this is one of the elements of improving justice. Let me remind you that last year solutions were introduced for civil proceedings in general, including specialized solutions such as intellectual property courts. This project also concerns the improvement of civil procedure procedures by introducing a separate procedure. This has so far been the proper application of the non-trial procedure. Experience has shown that this was ineffective. ♪ We're gonna ♪ we have analysed and proposed a change, which in our assessment will be a real and effective change. These detailed solutions, which we are talking about, in particular concerning service, detailed solutions concerning e.g. exemption from judicial costs etc., is intended to ensure that civil proceedings in separate proceedings can actually end in real terms within 30 days. In our view, it's possible. With regard to the plea of discretion - this will also answer the question of the rules on the determination of violence - I would like to stress that it is in the Police Act and in the Military Gendarmery Act that we have foreseen a solution - and this is an important solution that has been applied so far, is practiced, it is checked - concerning the investigation of the grounds for police detention, of course by analogy. It was also included in the Police Act thanks to very good cooperation with the Ministry of Home Affairs, for which I would also like to thank on this occasion. I think it'll also be an additional asset of this bill. I think that the police forms that will be implemented on this basis now have a very good statutory basis and a basis that results from many years of experience. As far as training is concerned, yes, we were already at the stage of preparing this project, at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements in contact with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. We are preparing, we are already in the process of preparing comprehensive trainings in the area of the Police (The Bell) and the Military Gendarmery. They will most likely be cascaded. As far as the medical examiners are concerned, I'll allow myself to answer in writing for the time being. I would add that, as part of the Ministry of Justice and the Justice Fund, for the first time, we have created a comprehensive network of assistance for victims. This is the first such solution of a really comprehensive nature. There we have solutions for comprehensive legal, psychological, psychotherapist and material assistance, which will also be used to support and implement this law. We have envisaged solutions that not only point to the police's obligation to inform them of the possibility of assistance, but we even provide for the possibility or the possibility of such a solution, which is that the victims of violence at the time of application of the police order will be transferred directly to the victim's aid centres unless, of course, this person objects. We introduce the term "crime," not "crime," because "crime" already exists - art. 207. We're not making any changes to the criminal procedure here, we're making a civil procedure, so it's a violation of a certain order or a court ruling. We do not change legal solutions at all. As regards the issue of leaving unattended children, it is clear that normal childcare regulations will apply here. I think I answered most of the questions. As far as medical matters are concerned, I will answer in writing. Thank you very much. I'd like that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed to second reading without delay. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs (print No 300). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Krzysztof Mazur to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u199	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, since the start of the fight against the pandemic, our government has launched a series of instruments to help Polish entrepreneurs. The first package of aid entered into force on 31 March and applications were already available from 1 April and aid applications could already be submitted. Until now, although not yet a month has passed, more than 2 million applications have been submitted in this manner and the first funds have already been sent to beneficiaries 2 weeks ago. In addition, we also launched the first and second shield of the financial shield. Here the Polish Development Fund has launched mechanisms that have been running since today. 18, which means in 15 minutes, they'll be operational. This is another tool that we quickly started. All this was about speed, it was about getting help to the needy as soon as possible. I am now presenting to the High House another law, which is to be complementary to what has so far been launched, in relation to the activities of PFR, BGK and the ARP. This is an action which is not a rapid intervention, rapid assistance, but is geared towards structural assistance for those companies that will have a serious situation that they will need deep restructuring. What is different from those mechanisms is that it aims to provide such tools as will allow for long-term restructuring, even in the perspective of 10 years. Importantly, the proposed law is in line with the European Commission's guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms. These are the 2014 guidelines, i.e. from time to time before the coronavirus. This means that, since there is a different European basis for this assistance, this aid will not add up with the instruments that have already been implemented. So if a company receives aid from an anti-crisis shield or a financial shield, this aid will not add up. Once this path has been exhausted, the company will also be able to reach for the mechanisms and solutions proposed in this law. This is a law that is designed to help all types of companies: small, medium, large enterprises regardless of the industry, regardless of their geographical location. The operator of this assistance is the Industrial Development Agency, an agency which has many years of experience in this type of activity. As I said: this is long-term aid, up to 10 years old, and it can amount to up to 10 million euros per company. What instruments do we propose? In fact, we propose three types of instruments, three types of aid. First, short-term loans. These are loans for up to six months. If this proves insufficient, they can be shifted to another 18 months. Here companies can apply for up to 10 million euros. These are short-term loans which aim primarily at maintaining liquidity. It's about thinking about how much trouble the company's gonna get out of and how much restructuring it's gonna have to go through. If it turns out that she needs further restructuring, we have step two, and this is temporary restructuring support. This is another 18 months when a company in trouble can receive help from us and benefit from this aid by carrying out a restructuring plan on its own. If this also proves insufficient, it also has a third step. This is a tool that is called restructuring aid. Here is the restructuring plan, prepared in this ten-year perspective by the Industrial Development Agency together with this company, she approves this plan. That's how this company gets out of trouble. What about this restructuring plan? In addition to the loan, capital entrances and reliefs in the execution of the administrative penalty are also available. This is intended to provide really such assistance to these companies, so that even in the context of deep restructuring they are able to survive, changing their profile, continue to function. So that, as I said, this is a long-term action after this short-wave action associated with the shield. It aims to restructure Polish companies regardless of size, regardless of the industry. As far as the amount is concerned, if this law were to enter into force, this would mean a burden (the bell) for a budget of 120 ml PLN per year of direct support and an additional 50 million PLN under certain concessions as regards public debts. I ask the High House to support this law, because it seems to us that, after these ad hoc measures, which were aimed at helping companies as quickly as possible, we need a law which will be long-term, for 10 years has led companies through restructuring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u200	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Przemysław Czarnek, remotely, will take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I know there's already a connection. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u201	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Government's draft law on State aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. The PiS Club, of course, fully supports the solutions proposed in this draft law by the Council of Ministers, of which we have heard from moments ago, and is in favour of further, efficient investigation of this project. It is true that the anti-crisis shield support instruments are short-term and are intended to be and are immediately available here and now, contrary to all the voices that we have heard today during the discussion of other points. This crisis shield works here and now. I can give you some of the examples you've asked Marshal Kidawa-Błońska for, suggesting that no one's been supported by the government, and would like examples by name. I can give them to you, I am in direct contact with the director of the Provincial Labour Office Mr Andrzej Pruszkowski in Lublin. The company known throughout Poland - Black Red White, a furniture company which announced group redundancies in March - 1900 employees, requested support from the crisis shield and just received more than 28 million, almost 29 ml PLN for 5200 employees, so she withdrew from these group redundancies. She received 29 million PLN for 5200 employees. These are the concrete effects of an anti-crisis shield - contrary to what we hear from the Seym Chamber. This is just an example of this action here and now. On the other hand, the economic crisis, which is caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus, will certainly have long-term consequences for some companies. Therefore, this bill, which we are investigating today and which was presented just moments ago by Minister Mazurka, is extremely important. The draft Act on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs is envisaged as a complementary action for the crisis shield and following the use of shield instruments. The long-term instruments proposed by the government are to be used even for up to 10 years, which is extremely important, and the maximum amount foreseen for one company - up to 10 million euro - will indeed improve the situation of companies in financial difficulties. The draft law creates support instruments to ensure that entrepreneurs are able to have liquidity in time for the preparation of corrective actions and that they can be financed within the framework of the restructuring plan prepared. The forms that have been proposed, and therefore aimed at rescuing, as well as temporary restructuring support and restructuring of firms in difficulty, should, in our view, be available as soon as possible to the owners of companies as complementary, complementary long-term support to the anti-crisis shield. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of further, efficient legislative work on this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Waldemar Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u203	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law on State aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. I am very pleased that my previous speaker was so positive about this bill, because - let me remind you - it is part of the policy of a new opportunity, a policy which was adopted by Parliament on 22 July 2014 and is written by the coalition of the Polish People's Party - Civic Platform. Yes, it must be added that it is a long-term instrument, but it is an instrument, I think of you, which will be an instrument that will not be timely at all, because a group of Polish economic operators will not be able to benefit from it despite the very important and important objectives that have been enshrined in this bill. Well, in a moment, I'll try to be very precise about why I'm so worried. First of all, it is necessary to start by saying, please, that the time in which we are working on this law is absolutely unsatisfactory, and it is not satisfactory from the politicians of the opposition or politicians of the ruling option, but above all it is unsatisfactory, because Polish entrepreneurs are waiting for this support, who are very hard to bear the freezing of the Polish economy. Let me remind you that the legal basis for the mobilisation of public aid dates back to 2015. In fact, the relevant regulation of the European Commission was prepared at that time, while the government is proposing this bill only today, although, as you remember perfectly, at the turn of 2019 and 2020 we had the first symptoms of the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. In Poland, the first zero patient appeared on 4 March in Zielona Góra. Today is almost the end of April, and the government is just presenting a bill. The bill, which not only does not fit into the time frame, but also, in my view, is extremely difficult from the point of view of administrative barriers. If you carefully analyse the form and number of annexes that are required to be prepared by individual economic operators, you will notice that the scale of the documents, the material prepared is so great that the number of economic operators will have extremely big problems with them. I think many of them will withdraw from applying for this program because they will not be able to meet these requirements. In addition, in addition to administrative barriers, it should be added that, in the case of, I ask you, for example, the first issue of rescuing companies, the trader is obliged to prepare ten relevant documents and 12 more obsessive annexes. Moreover, it is extremely worrying - I do not want to overshadow and say: shocking - there is a time for verification and formal and substantive evaluation of submitted projects. The Minister responsible for economic affairs or the entity designated by him, the Polish development agency, has 30 days to verify documents, in justified cases - up to 45, after which the beneficiary, the recipient, the recipient, the applicant of these funds has 7 days to refer, if any, to the suggestions of these institutions, and then, please, the next 30 days to formulate the appeal when this project is assessed negatively. On the other hand, the institution which allocates and decides shall take a de facto decision to grant these funds shall have 60 days to reply. So this is an extremely long time. I would like to appeal to the Minister if it is possible to shorten this time absolutely (the bell) because even European funds in such a long regime are not being processed. And if your marshal will allow it, I'll conclude. This concerns you, ladies and gentlemen, that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is very reluctant and extremely negative about the European Union. I would like to say that the same as the number of other programmes that we offer to Polish entrepreneurs within the framework of the 1st and 2nd crisis shields and the 3rd programme that we are currently working on today are programmes co-financed by European funds. Poland is the largest recipient of European money. In this perspective, the amount of EUR 82.5 billion is 2014-2020. The process of modernising the Polish state absorbed PLN 500 billion, which came from the European Union budget. Mr... I put a bold but true thesis: if it were not for these measures, Poland would be today - I am finishing - perhaps a little more developed than Ukraine if we compared the level of socio-economic development. So that I very much ask that we be honest in this debate, including those who rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adrian Zandberg will speak on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. There it is, there it is. Oh, there it is. Look, the knee's broken. Ooh... I'm afraid so. Okay, take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u205	High Izbo! Extraordinary times have come and words have come back in this House, which have not been here for a long time: collective redundancies, mass unemployment, cuts, and finally restructuring. At that time, the State's responsibility becomes exceptional. The story that the market was doing well without state aid sounded good during prosperity, but as always it was not worth much at the time of the trial. Aid to firms that are currently in bankruptcy is necessary. But I have to say that I smiled under my nose reading this bill because I felt that it was a product from the past, even an ancient past, because everything now, in times of crisis, will become obsolete really quickly. And no wonder, because of course you should have started this tool a long time ago. This is simply the completion of the old government programme of 2014, as it was mentioned. But I'm going to say something nice: it's okay, ladies and gentlemen, that in this law you allow the State to enter capital, to take over the State's shares. Unfortunately, there is one problem: the measures that you have written down in these regulations can cause, at most, a shrugging of the arms, because 120 million zlotys are quite disproportionate to the scale of the problems we will face when we come out of this crisis. And that's the problem with the whole program. He's too modest to really cushion the crisis. We are talking about public spending, and therefore we need to talk very honestly about the objectives and conditions of this assistance. And that's what's missing from this bill, unfortunately. The past mistakes must not be repeated when losses have been socialized and profits have been made to the few richest pockets. That is why the Left will submit specific amendments to this proposal. This refers to this and any other State aid law. Where aid flows, there should be a categoric ban on the payment of bonuses and bonuses, additional bonuses for managers. Unfortunately, after the introduction of your anti-worker shield, the trade unionists have already reported that more boards are cutting employees' wages, but their members are raising wages. This is immoral and unacceptable. But this also proves that the aid must be really controlled, instead of saving companies, instead of saving jobs, it will actually go into the private pockets of a few. If someone reaches for public funds, it is a sign that the time of obscene remuneration for the management of this company is over, and it is high time to make it clear. This money is intended to keep the business, not keep the luxury lives of the presidents. And we expect changes to be made that will protect us from that. Finally, the key issue - employment conditions, the obligation to work on fair terms. Companies that survive with state aid, thanks to state aid, can't, as if they've never been able to work on trash cans. I think we're all seeing in the gym right now, ladies and gentlemen, what this pathology in the labour market has led to. You just have to stop with that. You write in this bill that its purpose is to restore the viability of companies. It's not enough. These objectives must be much more ambitious. This must be the objective of restoring quality jobs. And that is the only reason why we can even talk in this House about supporting private businesses with public money. Because I remind you that this money comes mostly from taxes that workers pay in Poland, and you have to manage it so that the benefit of this is the benefit of society as a whole, not just a small group of owners. Finally. For the past few weeks, Prime Minister Morawiecki has been saying after the Left that state aid should not be sent to companies from tax havens. Very good, Prime Minister. And now it's time to learn another lesson. State aid must not disappear in the pockets of a small group of company presidents. This bill needs to be amended to safeguard the public interest. Therefore, the Left is in favour of referring it to further work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u206	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to present our position on the government draft law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring enterprises. This law is part of the implementation of a government programme aimed at enabling public support for restructuring processes in companies facing financial problems. The accelerated legislative work on this law was not the result of the current economic crisis caused by the epidemic and the associated increase in restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings, but of the epidemic situation. That is the justification of this law. On the other hand, there are three fundamental points that we have about this project. First of all, why so late? Minister Emilewicz during many debates that were still preceded by the so-called. The first crisis shield mentioned this project nearly two months ago. These 2 months seem, High Izbo, in this situation sometimes wasted. That's the first reservation. Secondly, it seems that many economic operators will not benefit from the benefits of this law. I am a man of great faith, but yet I do not think that the barber shopkeepers, beauty shopkeepers, small shops, shops who are going to get into trouble with the current situation, are able to get through the bureaucracy requirements that this bill unfortunately contains. And thirdly, I will repeat after the previous speakers, these measures that you foresee, this is a drop in the sea of needs that will absolutely not have any significant significance, this is about helping out of difficult situations in which many entrepreneurs will undoubtedly find themselves. Of course, we know what is the situation, what is the need of the moment, although the experience of both laws, so-called. The anti-crisis, unfortunately, do not leave good impressions, hope that we can together prepare something in this House in the real atmosphere, not just the declared cooperation. However, as a club, of course we will actively participate in the work and try to refine the shape of this law so that it is, above all, of any real importance for the exit of entrepreneurs from this difficult situation. And at the moment, our club will be involved in this further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Confederation's Circle will be presented by Mr Michał Urbaniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Well, I have the opportunity to present the position of the Confederation's circle on the State aid project to rescue or restructure entrepreneurs. Well, this government project is basically another protector for the Government of Law and Justice. I can think of a poem at the outset. I'm talking about the poem by Jan Kochanowski, the song about the devastation of Podola, specifically about his two verses: The new parable The Pole will buy himself, that also before harm, and after the injury of the fools. Well, the esteemed government side, you are proposing in this project a number of instruments for companies that, in fact, already have indications that they are in bankruptcy. You are proposing solutions with a series of assumptions that are almost impossible to meet. You are talking about lending, yes, but you have also had three years since the last decision of the European Commission to change Polish law to adapt, since we are in the European Union, to prepare projects that would actually allow companies to restructure. It was only the COVID-19 crisis that forced you to make any changes. This project essentially concerns small and medium-sized enterprises. Not only that, of course. It assumes interest-bearing loans and the duration of the loan is from 6 months to a maximum of 18 months. This is definitely too short a period for companies, e.g. medium, they were able to go back safely into the market and give that money away from the loan. It's too short a period. 50% The safeguards you impose on these loans may be problematic for some small companies as well. You also said in the project that business applications will be dealt with within 30 days, up to 45 days. In the case of entrepreneurs who are able almost that bankruptcy, 45 days it is too much time. 14 days - this could be acceptable in this case, because this is the time in which the company is still able to survive. Otherwise, costs are increasing all the time, commitments are increasing, and problems are growing. In this project you assume that annually you will allocate PLN 120 million to this project. 120 million PLN, but it is necessary to take into account how many legal provisions will be in the submission of applications and how the situation will be with the preparation of restructuring plans. It shows, well, how you approach this project. It will be a project of a clogged hole, thanks to which you will be able to wash your hands from actually saving the Polish economy. If, in fact, Law and Justice, the government side also wants Polish companies to develop in order to save the Polish economy, then entrepreneurs themselves speak clearly about what they need today. What you've been doing today, in fact, for months, has been being reminded of, for example, what you've introduced, or split payment. This is not a healthy way to collect taxes from entrepreneurs. You're blocking the money that entrepreneurs can trade freely within a month and then pay the tax. In this situation, split payment blocks it. It's really big, huge money, and if you overpayment money from a split payment account, it's bordering on a miracle. Entrepreneurs have also been saying for months, I met with this during talks with entrepreneurs from Pomerania, that they need a cash-based method of charging VAT, not like today, that after issuing an invoice you have to pay the tax immediately. It shouldn't have happened until after the transaction. In the course of this crisis, entrepreneurs are calling for the suspension of the calculation, for example. penalties (the bell) for being late. We call on you to take care of this, not a project that's clogged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes the statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Maria Janowska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome. Janyska. Janyska, I think. I figured it was me. Janyska, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Restructuring is always needed because there can always be such a situation that it is needed, sometimes more and more, and you need to be well prepared for it. This is what Waldemar Sługocki was talking about here on behalf of the Civic Coalition. The government decided to freeze it, to freeze some activity at the very beginning, and in a moment it's going to be two months, and in this project, I miss... I have this question: do you see the need for specific solutions for this group, because it is practically today that it is already threatened by the fact that it will cease to work any moment and that many of them no longer work. It is also a question of history, how they were prepared for times of crisis, which always come. Maybe to take an example from local governments, from the marshals of the voivodships, I will give an example of the marshal of the voivodship of Wielkopolska (Dzwonek), who once decided that the so-called. The feedback instruments from the use of European funds and today, I ask you, have already declared more than 70 million PLN, and this is already to be taken, by the Wielkopolska Development Fund, for liquidity and for rescuing companies. 70 million - and here 120 of government money. It's definitely not enough. Thank you very much. Your marshal, one more sentence, okay? Good. The bureaucracy is so great on this project that we will certainly be working on a special situation in committee - and we are in a special crisis situation - to prepare solutions very simple, obvious and fast. We'll just see how much, what the effect of this money will be, because unfortunately I'm afraid that it will be small, because money is also small. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u212	Thank you very much, Member. Another question - Mrs. Agnieszka Dziemianovich-Bak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Reading this law, we would like to say: Prime Minister, Government, Minister, hello, this is Earth, this is Spring 2020, here is the time of pandemic and the biggest economic crisis for years. And your bill, though not bad, comes from a different time. From when Prime Minister Morawiecki was a member of the Economic Council of Prime Minister Donald Tusk. From a time that no longer exists, which has passed away forever with the outbreak. The difficult situation that this law was supposed to meet is not an accident today, not an exception to some entrepreneurs. Today, hundreds of thousands of hairdressers, florists, hotelers, restaurants, shop owners, mass events organizers, cosmetics, instructors are in a difficult situation. And they all, all these people, are waiting today for proper action, for real rescue - not from temporary difficulties, but from real bankruptcy. So my question is: What are you waiting for? When you take care of the bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What did the Left give you in this crisis about the state financing of fixed-business costs? Financing the costs of electricity, gas, rent is a real relief, which today, in times of crisis, all entrepreneurs and their employees are waiting for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Sibińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. First question. Is the Industrial Development Agency, which is to carry out the tasks resulting from this law, operationally prepared for the introduction of capital inputs? The second question concerns local governments, because in the case of rescuing companies it will certainly have a significant impact on the revenue from taxes to local governments. Local governments are already doing a lot of government work today. They don't follow the money. They cover the costs of pseudo-educational reform. Today, local governments support hospitals, entrepreneurs, save local companies, while the government has no instruments to help local governments. That's why my question concerns it. In the face of this crisis, do you also provide for the support of local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Undoubtedly, the difficulties of companies operating in their territory will affect the situation of local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u216	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marcin Kulasek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Help for entrepreneurs should be, but the Left will never agree to unconditionally pumping money into business. Companies do not only work for the welfare of managers or owners, but also to give people a well-paid and safe job. We don't want a scenario where the company gets aid from the state, and the first investment will be the replacement of the limousine fleet for the board. People see it, prick them in the eye with such investments, talk about them and blood is pouring down on them, and in times of crisis they are flooded even more than usual. Hence my question: Will the government agree to the introduction of mechanisms that will ensure that public funds go fully to restructuring, to support innovation and to preserve good quality jobs (The Bell) and not to bonuses and prizes for presidents and supervisory boards? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u219	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The bill we're discussing is for normal times. This is not a bill for the state of the epidemic crisis or for the state of emergency in which the Polish economy is located. In this draft law there are mainly loan solutions. There is no business support, there is temporary support in the event of a loss of competitiveness. We're not talking about losing competitiveness here. Polish companies are competitive, but simply cannot function because of restrictions imposed by the government, by the authorities. A completely different bill is needed. I am surprised at all that four years you have waited with such a law on public aid, which could have been introduced after 2016 - because there were such opportunities - and only now, in order to give the Poles the impression that you are giving another aid instrument, you are introducing this bill. This is a completely useless project. He is good, as I said (The Bell), for good times, but certainly does not help the economy. I wanted to ask you at the end, Minister, what other financial opportunities you have. We know the deficit in the current budget, and we also know the scale of lending needs, 78 billion borrowed from NBP. I would like to know how much more money you have, and then we could work on a real law that would help the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Pawłowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The left has always been on the side of workers and employers. My question will be about workers and employers. I'm asking if the government will finally take care of the Świdnik Airport problem. The company Port Lotniczy Lublin SA, which neither Minister Sasin nor Minister Soboń paid attention to, is a regional airport where you raise political capital, and now you have no decency to respond to the call for help. That's your policy. There's no coronavirus, you're proud of your accomplishments. There's a coronavirus. You can't take responsibility. Port Lotniczy Lublin SA calls for help because it has been omitted by your government. It's your fault you didn't see to it. You print envelopes, and you can't do saving, among other things. the motor of the Lublin Voivodeship, which you also use. Mr. Sasin, Mr. Soboń, today I'm serving you. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, I submit an amendment concerning the security of regional airports. There is nothing simpler at this point than voting in favour of the Left Amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I will no longer repeat my criticisms, although I hope that you will consider a few of them in the future. On the other hand, the question concerns the issue of annual allocation. You want to spend 120 million a year on the implementation of this law. But my question is a little different. Minister, wouldn't it be better, in terms of the needs of Polish entrepreneurs, to make these annual allocations slightly different, i.e. that in 2020 the highest level of funding would be by far, in 2021 - slightly smaller and smaller each year? Because today the needs of entrepreneurs are by far the greatest. I would not divide this allocation of PLN 1200 million into equal parts - on the contrary. If today Polish companies stand [[♪ The bell ♪]] Against the challenges of the pandemic, today should be the biggest financial means, then - gradually smaller. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It may seem that in the case of this law you did everything in order to de facto not help Polish entrepreneurs. 45 days - and worst case scenario, at notice, over 100 days - waiting for a decision. After all, anyone who has ever dealt with doing business knows that in this situation most companies will simply die. Nobody's gonna wait that long. Tons of paperwork to be filled out, a statement of balance sheets by the statutory auditor. It's taking too long, it's too late, and it's practically unreal under present conditions. In fact, we should do one thing today: start to trust entrepreneurs and really look at their needs. Why can this work in other countries on the basis of a statement? Why can money come immediately, and with us entrepreneurs must wait a few dozen days, sometimes more than 100 days to get any help? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u226	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't believe in this project. I don't believe it because, first of all, it's late, second of all, it's difficult, third of all, there's little money, and fourth of all, as Professor Rosati said, this is not the time. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time in a month we've been debating the third shield. The first hole, the second one - similar, we're working on the third one today. If you would like to take advantage of the proposals presented in the Senate, or those proposed by the Civic Coalition, as well as the other opposition clubs in the Seym, this shield would be completely different. Today, however, thousands of people register as unemployed. In my town, Chelm, you can see it in a special way. The government speaks very beautifully, but the truth is different. There is government truth, and there is the truth when we talk to entrepreneurs - it looks completely different. Prime Minister, if I may. [[♪ The bell ♪]] advise: fewer press conferences, more money. More money for companies, but now, because in a month or two, it'll be too late. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u228	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The bill contains solutions for granting public aid in the form of financial support for rescuing or restructuring firms in difficulty. Please answer the question of how the projectors intend to control the implementation of the restructuring support envisaged in the form of so-called. capital inputs. Capital entrances do not mean anything other than the State Treasury's inclusion of bonds, shares or shares in the increase in the share capital of the companies rescued. High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, this may be called an attempt to nationalise companies. Parliament should have a stronger mandate to supervise these activities. Such supervision should be prepared immediately so that representatives of the public can control the support provided. Why didn't the projectors anticipate Parliament's powers (The Bell) for control and monitoring? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u230	Thank you very much. And Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a project for the time and situation in which we are, that is, the situation of a world pandemic. This is a project for normal state aid times. On the other hand, the bill, on which we process, duplicates procedures, duplicates complex records, difficult patterns, which do not work in life. This was shown by Wrocław: no formal requirements were met in 464 applications. The same is true of this law. Art. 15 (2) In order to calculate the amount of the loan, the following formula shall apply: EBIT
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u232	Thank you, Member. Finally, Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are investigating a draft law on the granting of public aid to rescue or restructure entrepreneurs. On 29 August 2016, the European Commission gave a green light. You put it in the drawer and kept it for over 3.5 years. But even when we read into those records that you are investigating today, we will see that these records are not even successful, but the problem is, among other things, the problem. the procedures that are set out there, and the means that you want to allocate. The measures may save several companies, but procedures will make it possible for few people to benefit from it. Please pay attention to what you've done with shield one and shield two. People who want to benefit from the parking benefit have been waiting for more than a month. People who want to use the so-called. a non-refundable loan from the employment office, waiting from 2 to 4 weeks. If this bill is gonna work exactly the same way, you're not gonna save anybody. It's just so that you can show that you want to save your lives, that you have an idea, and that you can't save anyone, that you're not going to be interested anymore. It's just a project that's a bang and only by name reminds you that it's the job of helping anyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u234	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Krzysztof Mazur, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion, although I have the impression that this discussion has been addressed to the public more often than it has been said in substance about facts. I was talking about this at the very beginning, and you know very well that this is really a bill not for this moment, but for the next 10 years. Why are you waiting? Yes, Mr. Professor Rosati, yes, this is an idea for how to restructure companies, also after COVID. That's exactly what this bill is about, because the emergency aid is already here today, 2,400 thousand. Target 1 and Shield 2 applications have been launched. People are waiting. If you have stated, Mr Zandberg, that we are also talking about the entry of the State's capital, then yes, the financial shield of the Polish Development Fund, which started today at hours. 18, as I said, is exactly what he's wearing. So please do not mislead the public that this is the only action and that we have waited so long for this bill, because this is, as I counted, the sixth law: three COVIDs, the fourth was about the loan payment, the fifth was about institutions of development. This is the sixth law in this context. That's point one. The argument, Mr Slugocki, about time, is absolutely false. On March 31st we started, on April 1st we were able to submit proposals, today we have 2,400 thousand. applications submitted. This is, you can say, not enough - and after 14 days the funds are granted - it can be done faster. Okay, but I remember the days of the SLD, I remember the times of the Platform. I don't remember a trial like this working so fast in 14 days. Secondly, if we are talking about administrative barriers, we will really be happy to work in committee to make sure that there are as few of them as possible. Once there is no more such a broad auditorium, we will show you what the European Commission's guidelines are. Tomorrow we have another meeting with them and we are discussing with them why these guidelines exactly to this basis, which is not the basis of the COVID, as I said, is another basis, before the COVID... The European Commission imposes a large administrative obligation on us. We're in constant dialogue with her. We speak in this way, but as you will see what the guidelines are, you will know, ladies and gentlemen, how these guidelines are actually based on their guidelines. What's funny? It is not true, Mr Sługocki, that there are European funds here in this law. These are Polish funds, from the Polish budget, while they are based on the guidelines of the European Commission. It's interesting that we can't really spend our own resources as flexible as we want. We can do it in shield 1.0 and 2.0. , and 3.0, and this is what we are doing, and here these conclusions are very, very simple, but we are based on the European Commission's 2014 guidelines, 2015 and these are just such complicated guidelines, although these are funds from the Polish budget. Please do not mislead the public that it is not. We are very open to making this as simple as possible, but when we present the Commission's guidelines at the committee's meeting, you will understand for yourself what the problem is. Mr Zandberg! You're talking about capital entering companies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, this financial shield mechanism, 25 billion for these largest companies, is precisely this mechanism. If you say that this 150 million, 120 million plus 50 million is not enough, today we have launched a PFR for large companies of 25 billion. And there is also the option of entering the capital state into companies. I would encourage you and your fellow Members to observe this process, because it actually has a scale that is COVID-specific. Note that the scale is too small. Yeah, because that's the scale for restructuring after COVID. That's the point, and I said it at the very beginning, and it's in this bill, so I don't know why it's a misunderstanding. As for the issue of people's activities, that it is to go into the activity of people, not the presidents, absolutely, I agree with the sensitivity of the Left. And you know perfectly well that the measures under this law will be granted on the basis of a detailed restructuring plan. If there is no gold for the car fleet in this detailed restructuring plan, this will not be possible. We're talking about some fantasy again. This is also very interesting, because on the one hand you say: there should be little conclusions, little paperwork, but on the other hand: it should go for this and not for that. The administration operates in such a way that if it has a restructuring plan, it knows that it can ensure that it goes on a restructuring plan and not on a fleet, so that there is some inconsistency here too. On the issue of days - 14 or 30 - we will be happy to accept these amendments on the committee. We would like it to be within 1 day or 2 days, but you will see if this is possible, based on these guidelines from the Commission. As far as the suspension of penalties is concerned, this is what Mrs Urbaniak said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shields one and two provide for the suspension of penalties, so we are talking about the law that has already passed through this House. So that I would ask you not to post things that have already passed. As far as the ARP issue is concerned, is it prepared. Yeah, she's well-prepared. I was talking about the tradition of this institution. Yes, he already has a similar program, several similar programs in his account, so that we think the ARP is a good institution for that. As far as the issue of self-government is concerned, you also know very well that there are solutions to self-government in the 3.0 shield, so that all those who are wondering what the budgetary stability of self-governments will look like, I refer to this legal act. About the issues... Conditions for the manager - I told you. I also forwarded my comments to Mr Rosati. I absolutely agree. Yeah, it's a program on time after COVID, 10 years. We're hoping we'll be out of the epidemic by now. We still need detailed restructuring plans for companies in this context. As regards the airport in Świdnik, please ask in writing. I'm happy to answer, but I don't have the right knowledge right now. As far as the idea of graduating is concerned, to start with large resources, I repeat once again: not at this point. At this point, we have other mechanisms that we have already started, so we think that we will need these measures rather in 2021, 2022, when the mechanisms of shield 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 will cease to work. Then restructuring will be needed for companies that, despite the start-up of the economy, will continue to have structural problems to return to the market. They're gonna need a change of business model, they're gonna need an exchange of hardware, an exchange of know-how on which they work. That's when we're gonna need the resources, so I don't think it's right now. It's for next year, two years from now. I'm saying it's not a 4.0. Nobody here said that. It's a completely different kind of action, so he'd ask you not to mix these ideas. Is there anything else? I think there's been a few words about nationalization, so I can only answer that. This House went through shield 1.0, which gave the possibility of capital engagement, among others. The Polish Development Fund, and within this framework there is a financial shield, which gives the possibility to enter the capital state in terms of support for companies. Do you know what the most interesting thing is? The interesting thing is that private companies really want it. We have specific companies that stand, even at a press conference, as you can see, with the Prime Minister, and yes, they expect that, in time of the crisis, the state will also help in such a way that it will take part of the shares in such a way as to recapitalise these companies so that they can obtain liquidity. So if by time constraints, because I have already exceeded 3 minutes, I have not answered all the questions, please ask me to ask questions in writing and for a job in committees. I'm open to it... Why did you wait three years? Why 3 years? Mr President, why have we waited three years? Just because this restructuring project has a different context today, right? There's a different context today. This is due to the fact that after the start of the economy we will need a major restructuring of companies. Today is a good time to think about it in the next steps.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u236	Thank you very much, Minister. Corrigendum. I've been called. But, sir, in what mode? Corrigendum. Well, not really. Okay, but short, because we're still gonna talk on the committee, the committee's gonna work... Just a little bit. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u237	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry, but either you have to listen more carefully to what you're being told, or you shouldn't suggest to the speaker that he said what he didn't say. I did not say that public aid comes from the budget of the European Union, I just said that the relevant regulations of the European Union allow national public funds to be transferred to Polish economic operators. And you know, and I know, and we all know here in the Chamber that Poland is functioning in the European single market, so this notification of public aid is needed every day, not today. That's what I said. Yes or no? Answer me. There's no correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u238	Good. Thank you very much. The Minister has asked for the floor. You're welcome, but just a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u239	30 seconds. Mr. Speaker! You have been gracious to say that there is some inconsistencies in the narrative of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because he criticises the European Union and at the same time uses the tools of the European Union. So what I'm saying is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] May I say, sir? Please. Thus, on the example of this law, it is clear that the sharpenings that operate in the European Union, which do not allow public aid to companies even from the national budget... Of course. ...are more in minus than in plus at a time of crisis. I'm sorry. I'm just gonna finish. Go ahead, I'm just getting up. After the last meeting of the Free Trade Council, Minister Altmaier from Germany, perhaps quite a pro-European country, spoke about the need for special regulations today, because under the existing rules in the European Union, we do not have the ability to effectively defend the German strategic assets, as he said, i.e. strategic resources. No doubt. And he said: Europe is not for sale, but we need the right regulations to sustain it. There were other voices. It was said that we needed to abolish the capu for public aid, because it is too rigid and does not help us to react. With regard to the discussion on how much the Union is helping or not today, it seems to me that it is limiting rather than helping. This is interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-29-sejm-11-1.u240	The committee, there will be a committee. Your marshal, yet... Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There'll be time for discussion at the committee meeting, really. You can talk to me in the cockroaches. We'll go and talk to the Minister in a minute. I'm sure he's nice. Minister, but EUR 82.5 billion for Poland in 2014-2020 is a fact. It is money which also supports Polish economic operators. Yes or no? Thank you very much. Okay, sir, you're really taking advantage of my goodness. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the granting of public aid for the rescue or restructuring of entrepreneurs, contained in print No 300, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 41]]
