ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u1	I open the 18th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. The girl's stuck. [[Voice from the gym: You gotta oil this chick.]] This is sabotage. [[Voice from the room: O floor!]] [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] I hereby appoint Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Rafał Ambrozik to the meeting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Rafał Ambrozik in room 217. Senators of the Secretaries, please take your designated seats. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the epidemic, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217 shall be asked to enroll in questions and to speak in a discussion with the Senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and in Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals and speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPads within the Senate building. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? I suppose so. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. In a moment, I'll ask you to give me any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on the pass or in some iPads after the vote, in the voting window once and in response to a second confirmation question. I'm asking you to give me any vote right now. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 1]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 6 November 2020, Senator Andrzej Shepherd, Senator VI, VII and VIII of his term of office died. In the Senate, he was a member of the Committee on National Economy and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. In the seventh term of office, he was Deputy Chairman of the Committee on National Defence and member of the Committee on National Economy. During the 8th term of office, he served as Deputy Chairman of the Committee on National Defence and was also a member of the Committee on National Economy. On November 10, you died Senator Jerzy Derkacz, senator of the third term. During the third term of office, he was Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Health. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you. High Senate, I inform you that on 17 July 2020, the Minister of Justice informed the Senate about the processing of telecommunications, postal and online data and the results of the checks carried out in 2019. It is contained in print No 173. The Senate Marshal sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I would like to inform you that the committee at its meeting on 4 November 2020 took note of the information. I would like to inform you that on 6 October 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers gave the Senate a report on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2019. It is contained in print No 230. The Senate Marshal sent this document to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 20 November took note of the document and that the Committee on Local Government and State Administration did so at its meeting on 24 November 2020. I would also like to inform you that on 6 October 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers gave the Senate a report on the implementation of the Law on State Aid to Raising Children in 2019. It is contained in print No 231. The Senate Marshal sent this document to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took note of this document at its meeting on 20 November and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on 24 November. I would like to inform you that the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments at its 20th meeting on 28 October 2020: to the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19, to the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws, to the Act amending the Budget Act for 2020. In addition, the Sejm adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Electronic Service Act at its first 20th meeting on 18 October 2020. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 15th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 16th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators the pleno titulo. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to you by electronic means, contained a point: the Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. In view of the failure of the Senate committees to prepare their reports on the matter, this point was not included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. Once the committee has prepared a report on the agenda, it will be supplemented by this item. I propose that points two, three, seven, nine and points twelve to fifteen of the draft agenda be considered, despite the fact that the committee's reports were submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: a second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threat of vetoing the budget of the European Union and consider it as a first item of the agenda; the Law amending the Law in specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws and consider it as item seven of the agenda; second reading of the draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges and consider it as item 15 of the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate The second reading of the draft resolution on the 650th anniversary of the death of King Casimir the Great The second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 1905 revolution and the preceding rally of Polish workers in the fight against the Tsar's conqueror - and consider it as item twenty-eighth of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I object to the inclusion on the agenda of item one: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the European Union budget. I've been watching the Senate sitting, and I have the impression that even the marshal chick is rebelling against what's been going on in the Senate lately... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] It's a real mutiny of matter. And seriously... This resolution is harmful, this resolution is contrary to the directions of actions assigned to the Polish government, this resolution is contrary to the similar resolution of the Polish Sejm, whose aim was to strengthen the negotiating position and actions of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Brussels. This resolution is also contrary to the constitutional powers of the Senate, because it is the Sejm, not the Senate, who exercises control over the government and it is the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs under the control of the Sejm who exercises foreign policy. The Senate doesn't have that kind of authority. Therefore, if it is indeed the case that the current majority in the Senate has a different view of such matters, the Senate should not at this time adopt a resolution that is so controversial and contrary to the government's policies. This resolution is also... [[Mr. Marshal, the motion is accepted. I understand that in the discussion...]] Okay, two more sentences and I'm done. Mr. Marshal, I don't often make such requests, it's too serious a matter for us to get things done quickly. Finally, this resolution is outrageous as to its form and content. In it, once again consistently, intentionally disregards the institutions of the Polish state, using, for example, a small letter, the name of the government of PiS, instead of the Council of Ministers or the Government of the Republic of Poland. If the Senate wants to deserve, repeatedly quoted by your marshal, respect and respect, then start with respect for other state institutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u3	I accept your Marshal's motion. I understand that this objection concerns only this one point, and the others do not raise... [[I object to the introduction of this first point.]] Thank you very much. Against the vote of opposition, I am voting on the inclusion of the item on the agenda. and consider it as point one of the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threat of vetoing the budget of the European Union. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda and considering it as the first item? Please raise your hand and press the right button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The draft resolution has been put into order. I propose to change the order of consideration: second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 The Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński and consider it as point twenty-first. This has been item twenty-eighth of the agenda so far. This change is related to timing, because he will be taking part in discussions in this matter the rector of the university im. Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. I propose to change the order of consideration of the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich and consider it as point twenty-six. This has been item twenty-third of the agenda so far. If I don't hear any objection, I think the High House has accepted a proposal on order. Finally, I will ask the question: would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Senator Martynowski, Mr. Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I submit a request for deletion of the last item on this agenda, i.e. the item: Information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration about police actions towards participants and participants of protests after the announcement of the decision of the Court of Julia Przyłębska. I would just like to say that there is no such thing as the Court of Justice of Julia Przyłębska. I'm counting on the seriousness, the reflection of the Senate and the rejection of this point. And if you want to hear the information, write it right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Here I will bury my head with ashes, because actually the use of common language or used quite commonly should not take place in the Senate. And your motion, of course, will be put to the vote, just to hear if Senator Bosacki has...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, I have 2 requests on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club for a photo from the agenda of 2 items. These points are, first, the present point of the 17th, i.e. the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Regional Government and the Act on the Local Government of the Voivodship. It is about youth councils and youth sejmikas of the voivodship The second point is now the twenty-sixth point, i.e. the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich. The club very much asks that these two items be taken off the agenda of the current sitting and moved to one of the forthcoming meetings, considering that further consultations and work on both projects are needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u7	And Senator Poor and Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to ask for a change in the agenda as regards order. I'd like to ask that point twenty-five be processed after point twenty-first. Because one of the initiators of the meeting at this point will be Cyprian Norwid, Prof. Tomasz Korpysz, director of the Department of History of Polish Language at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u9	So the senator is suggesting that this point instead of number twenty-five has a number... [[Twenty-two.]] Twenty-two. That's Cardinal Wyszyński. [[Yes.]] Okay. [[Thank you.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a proposal against, or actually object to, one of Senator Bosacki's proposals, which wants to transfer the second reading of the draft resolution to the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich for a more indeterminate future. The reason is very simple: the work on this resolution has been ongoing since 25 February. It was finally adopted at the meeting of the Legislative Commission on 28 September, unanimously. The 12 people who voted were in favour of this resolution. The government's opinions on this resolution, from March and September this year, are positive. That's when we're talking about consulting. From the March opinion, in order not to torture you, I will quote only one sentence: "With great appreciation we are referring to the initiative taken within the Legislative Commission to adopt a special resolution, just this resolution. Opinion of September: In view of the above, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not comment on the draft resolution submitted. And one last thing. At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supported the written opinion. I do not know what else prevents the High House from adopting this resolution, with such unanimity, because she, as I say, did not raise much doubt, major problems during the examination in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u11	Last vote; Chairman of the Legislative Commission. I am not opening a discussion, just a brief explanation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u12	A brief explanation that we actually started our work at the beginning of the year and requested an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The first opinion was not an opinion, the Ministry did not respond to the content, but expressed appreciation. The only opinion that really is the opinion is the September opinion of this year, which followed six months of waiting for the position of government. And after receiving this position, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote down for the first time that it did not comment on the submitted project... This enabled further proceding of the resolution, in the same month in which the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u13	Thank you very much for this explanation. So we have a few things. Let me start with one that seems not to raise an objection, so that point twenty-five can be converted to point twenty-second. This is a resolution on Cyprian Kamil Norwid. If I don't hear the votes against, I'll do it without a vote. But we have issues that we should vote on because there are voices of opposition. I'll start one at a time, at 17th. There is a request for a photo from the agenda of the current meeting of the draft law on the amendment of the law on district self-government and the law on the local government concerning youth councils. Who's in favor... [[Voice from the room: There was no...]] [[There was no objection.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it wasn't.]] There was no objection? Okay, I'm sorry. That's why this point will be removed from order. We have two points left on which there were votes of opposition, namely, point twenty-six... This is a draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich. I would like to assure the senator publicly that I am not putting this aside for the saint, as you have said in the beautiful Polish language, but I have received the voices of the present German Polonia, who has asked for the opportunity to present their doubts, and that is why this proposal has been made. But I am publicly committed that if these additional issues are clarified, we will return to the procession. If, of course, the Senate decides to remove this item from the agenda. Who's... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] Maybe not anymore. [[Voice from the room: Not anymore, we vote.]] We're voting. Who's in favour of the photo on the agenda for item twenty-six? Please raise your hand and press the right button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 62 people voted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: What's with the vote...]] Mr. I.T., did all the data come from all the sources? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I see the votes from the sitting room have come to the full. However, these are only, ladies and gentlemen, votes counted from the sitting rooms. 62 senators voted in one room and the other. Gentlemen, let me know what's going on with the remote voices, 'cause on the screen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] On the screen, I had information that remote voices had gone down, but I didn't see them, because the sum of the votes was 62. There are exactly 48 votes in one room and 14 votes in the other, with 62 votes in total. If you have the result of a remote vote, I'll take it from here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're gonna write me a note. In the vote in the halls I'll give you what I see. 62 senators voted, including... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm just gonna sum it up. In the halls 62 senators voted, 38 for, 24 against, no one abstained. In addition, 34 senators voted remotely, giving us 96 votes. 14 was for, so... 38 plus 14 is 52... [[Talking in the O.R.]] One of them understands. There were 24 senators in the halls, plus 19 remotes, which is 43. One Senator from the remote has abstained from voting. 96 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] Please check the efficiency of the system, because we will have the next vote on item twenty-eighth, i.e. on Senator Martynowski's request to take this item off the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Two minutes off and we're off. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you expect a test vote, or can we... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 48 to 11 minutes 50]] Two minutes used. I remind you... Please return to your seats. I would like to remind you that we are now voting on Mr Martynowski's request for a photo taken off the agenda of item twenty-nine: information from the Minister of Interior and Administration about police actions towards participants and participants in protests after the announcement of the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u14	Mr. Marshal, I'm still here... I'm going through the Senate website, and I see that on the Senate's website we have the results of voting without votes, so to speak, remotely, so that the results on the Senate's website are misplaced. I don't know if the system registered it... So that I will ask for the resummation of the vote on point twenty-six.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u15	The system's registered, but the resummation application also... I gave the results from... [[The system has registered, but on the Senate website we have the incorrect results of the vote.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] But... These results will be corrected immediately. [[Voice from the room: They're registered...]] They're registered as names. You can see who voted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u16	Exactly, Mr. Marshal, I'm checking, among others. The results of our club. It's shown that 25 senators from our club didn't vote... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...and it's not true. That's why I'm asking for feedback.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u17	When will these results be corrected? [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u18	I am against this proposal because the result of the vote is given by the Marshal, the Marshal has given the result of this vote and it is clear. And some records somewhere else, well, they're an extra case. And that can't be the subject of reconnaissance. Your proposal should not be put to the vote at all because there are no arguments for resummation. The Marshal gave the final result.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u19	Mr. Marshal, you have the right to disagree with me. I formally filed a request for reconnaissance. If there is a vote against it, I ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u20	Mr. Senator, Art. 56 of the Rules of Procedure states: The resolution is only admissible during the same Senate meeting and only if an obvious error is revealed in the previously adopted resolution and not as a result of the vote. The vote was held correctly. The only difference was that I manually counted the remote voices. It's already corrected, I got this information, please check it out. We're coming... I'd like your attention, please. We proceed to the vote on the photo on the agenda of the Minister of the Interior and Administration's information on police actions towards participants and participants in protests after the announcement of the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. Who's in favor of taking down this point? Raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 50 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 4]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] The point remains.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u21	As I understand it, Mr Marshal, calling this point before the vote, used the proper name: the Constitutional Tribunal. As I understand it, on the agenda, those who will be printed in a moment will also find, in accordance with the will of your marshal and at least part of the Senate, the proper name of the constitutional body.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u22	You know, the minister's will, especially for military matters, must be taken seriously. [[Don't be courting...]] As I told Mr Martynowski, I will correct it and it will be used not by the usual name, but by the correct name. [[Voice from the courtroom: Only the Court building...]] Thank you very much. [[Only the building is.]] Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I refreshed the page and there's no vote, so to speak, again, it's just gone. [[Now he's not at all, because...]] Mr. Senator, I've read you the rule book. The Marshal makes the final interpretation. And this result will come up, believe me. At no time do we have the idea of cheating either your senator or anyone else. We're in this business of the primacy. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that, after considering point one, and this is the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the European Union budget, there will be a vote on this matter. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, with the exception of 5 votes on anniversary resolutions, which will be held immediately after each resolution has been considered. Tonight at 12:30, a half-hour recess will be announced. I inform your senators that items from the fourth to the sixth agenda will be considered tomorrow. It is a package of health laws. The agenda items concerning the second readings of draft resolutions of commemorative and anniversary will be discussed on Friday. I would like to draw the attention of the senators to the fact that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy during the examination of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, i.e. on the eighth agenda, they recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Senate's Rules of Procedure have submitted a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in print No 271. I ask all senators to be present at this item on the agenda, as we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. I would add that, after preparing the report on the Law amending the Law on Feed, I will propose to supplement the agenda on this item. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the budget of the European Union. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 270, and the report "Print No 270 S." I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This morning, the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union discussed the proposal of a group of senators, a draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from threats of vetoing the European Union budget. The discussion was very lively and concerned fundamental and fundamental issues. I think it's very good that in the Senate such discussions take place, even though some of the senators at the Law and Justice Club thought, argued that the Senate had no right What the Marshal Pęk said just now to deal with such matters. This is absolutely crucial, which is the threat of a veto against the budget package because that's what you have to call it. The European Union by the Government of the Republic of Poland. As I say, this discussion concerned fundamental issues. There were key, very serious arguments concerning national interest, state reasons, sovereignty, as well as situations in which national veto In this case, of course, it is Poland. They are or are not justified in the European Union. This was not a discussion about money, although some of the Senators of Law and Justice argued that our resolution, a possible resolution of the Senate, would interfere with the negotiations of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The contracts were such that the budget negotiations ended, and in July this year Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that this budget and its related financial solutions were beneficial for Poland. When I talk about related financial solutions, I mean, for example. about the transformation fund, concerning the areas in transition from coal to other sources, but above all about the so-called. The European Union's Reconstruction and Reinforcing Fund, which is to provide several hundred billion more. More than 70 billion of them for Poland to combat the effects of the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. These measures certainly And here there was no argument with the evaluation presented during the discussion by several senators Poland is needed during the current recession, which has been the biggest recession since 1989. Other issues, other arguments, aroused strong controversy and polemics. An example is whether the Polish Prime Minister and the Polish Government will defend Polish sovereignty or, on the contrary, because in solutions that bind the rule of law with the European budget, there is nothing that threatens this sovereignty. There was also a serious discussion about whether the veto is in line with the Polish state's justification or not. I will allow myself to present the views of the majority, the views expressed also in this draft resolution. The threat of veto against financial solutions that are beneficial for Poland cannot be explained except by the narrow interests of the governing party, which have nothing to do with the interests of the whole country, country or nation. Naturally, the argument was reversed by the Senators of Law and Justice, i.e. that combining the rule of law mechanism with the budget of the European Union and the budget package is both now and in the long term detrimental to the sovereignty of the country. The part of the discussion was very strong, in which one of the senators, Senator Kwiatkowski, spoke about the fact that nations also have their dreams and that several years ago, 20 years ago, one of the dreams of the Polish people was not only the entry into the European Union, but also the strong settlement in the centre of the European Union and the achievement by Poland of the status of one of the leaders of the European Union. The senator concluded by calling for us to not part with the European Union, not part with our national dreams, through such unthinkable steps as this veto. I would like to conclude, High Senate, that by 22 votes to 11 against the joint committees recommended that the High Senate adopt a resolution in the content submitted to it. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u25	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Marcin Bosacki to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Ambrozik first, then Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you about the criteria for assessing the rule of law. As there is an attempt to link the Union budget and the Fund for Reconstruction with the so-called. The rule of law, I would like to ask you about the criteria under which the rule of law will be assessed in each Member State. Unfortunately, there is an attempt here to combine EU funds with the rule of law politically, extra-traditionally and illegally, and this is also an unprecedented impact on the beneficiaries of these funds, i.e. the Member States. This is what the legal services of the Council of the European Union have been talking about, and this is what the European Court of Auditors has said, which has just pointed to the lack of these criteria. Can you define the criteria that the institutions of the European Union will be guided by assessing the rule of law in each Member State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u27	Mr Senator, these criteria are set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, signed in Lisbon by President Lech Kaczyński, and include: independence of governments, freedom from political influence, respect for human rights and the principle of equality against the law and the division of power of three. [[And which of these criteria is violated in Poland or in other Member States? Because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u28	Mr. Senator, this is the committee's report, and the questions to the applicant will be second. If you want to sign up a second time, go ahead. Senator Czudowska is asking you a question right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I ask for this information: is there such a provision in the Treaty of the European Union that countries may threaten veto, or is there a provision that countries have a right to veto? I'm asking because it's the fundamental difference. Please explain whether it is used in the Treaties to express the threat of veto or the right of veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u30	Senator, this is the version you're asking about. There was no discussion at the committee meeting. It was the subject of whether the states were entitled to both the threat of veto and the threat of veto. Of course they do. Most senators Two comments were made on the subject. It considered that, in this situation, from the point of view of Poland's national interest, not to mention the whole Union, veto is pointless and even harmful, because the Polish government has already agreed to solutions, i.e. the entire budget package of the European Union. I remind you that we do not veto... the Polish government does not veto, because there is no longer such possibility, the connection between the rule of law and the budget, only threatens to veto the budget itself. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u31	Please be brief, because there's another...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u32	You didn't understand me, senator. I am not asking for the opinion of the Civic Platform Club regarding the position of the Polish government on a case that is currently underway... [[I wasn't talking about it either. I'm reporting the committee's work.]] I mean, it's just... I'm not sure I'm gonna be able to... Well, if you report on such important matters, I think you need to have basic knowledge about it. Is it written in the treaties about the threat of a veto or almost a veto? That's all I want to know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u33	Of course there's a right to a veto, it's... Yes. [[Right, that's no threat. Yes. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u34	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! First line. You said there was nothing you could do about it, that the procedure was over. During July 17 and 21 this year, the European Council, i.e. the highest authority, in the conclusions of point 23 of the Annex to the conclusions of The Commission will propose measures in the event of infringements adopted by the Council by qualified majority. Last sentence: The European Council will soon return to this issue. So the conclusions on the shape of this regulation, which we are questioning as a state and which the government is questioning, and rightly so, were to be... These conclusions indicate that this regulation was to be swiftly adopted by the European Council and that it was planned to return to this issue. Well, that's about the end of the procedure. However, I have a more important question, because you do not have to talk to me about the European Commission or the Presidency here. Namely, the draft regulation was first submitted in 2018 by the European Commission, the original proposal is dated this year, and then, in 2018, on this regulation... I would remind you that it was intended to protect the EU's interests when spending EU money. In short, the rule of law here meant, in the simplest sense, compliance, legalism, economy, the purpose of spending funds. This has been consulted with the European Court of Auditors, an institution that simply deals with this, brings together a group of professionals, is one of the EU institutions, the Treaty. The Court has delivered its opinion. This is Opinion No 1/2018. I am not going to beat you by quoting the whole thing, just to quote the headlines themselves: A new mechanism providing for broad discretion for the Commission... [[Mr. Senator, one minute to question.]] But please don't let the marshal bother me like he didn't bother the others... [[Oh, Mr. Senator...]] 'Cause I'm gonna think you're after me. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[Senators can ask questions that last no longer than a minute, and you've been telling me three minutes.]] No specific stakeholder consultation has been carried out, no impact assessment has been carried out, no sources have been identified or clear criteria have been identified... [[Why don't you ask me a question?]] No deadlines for the Commission, no clear commitment from the Commission... I'm just finishing up. This is the evaluation of the European Court of Auditors on this regulation. Incidentally, this regulation, I would call it, was directed against the interests of countries that do not agree with the general political line. [[Mr. Senator...]] And here's the real question: was this mentioned at the committee meeting? Why didn't you put this in order to be objective in the text of the draft resolution? I am talking about the European Court of Auditors. That wasn't consulted after that. He was too objective. There's not a word here. Could you say something about that, as a representative of the applicants, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u36	Absolutely. Mr Senator, first of all, I will correct your information that the European Union or the European Council was dealing with this mechanism for the first time in 2018. This discussion has been taking place since 2013, when a group of 5 countries asked for a discussion on this subject. They were Nordic countries and northern Europe, among others. Finland and the Netherlands. I'm answering your question. As you read... The intention of the applicants is to make it clear why the Senate considers We hope that the majority of the Senate will support this position. That such a tactic of applying threats, threatening veto against the budget of the European Union or the budget package of the European Union is contrary to the Polish state, with Polish national interests. No, we did not deal with the position of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u37	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator rapporteur, a brief question. The good practice of the Senate so far was that the draft resolutions were consulted with representatives of the Polish government. Tell me, Mr Senator, whether the draft resolution, which, however, affects foreign affairs and the position of Poland on the international stage, was consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Was the representative of the Foreign Affairs Committee invited to the meeting of the Legislative Commission or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u39	Senator, yesterday, the veto case was dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Some of the conclusions of the discussions that I am presenting today at the committee's meeting also come from that discussion, discussions with a number of experts. Europeans, political scientists or diplomacy practices, former ambassadors. The European Minister, Mr Konrad Szymański, was invited to this meeting, but at the last minute he informed that he could not be present.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u40	Thank you very much. I understand that... Senator Swede again? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u41	First time, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Somehow I've gotten so close that...]] That was before, about the vote. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I'm talking about the budget veto. To your knowledge, has the budget veto been used before? If so, what countries? How did the veto case end, which was previously applied to the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u42	Mr. Senator, yes, there have been veto threats in the past. This resulted in a compromise on the final shape of the budget. But the subject of the committee's work was not a question of this, either because it is not in this resolution or in the draft resolution. Whether the State has the right or whether in this case the Polish Government has the right to use a veto, because of course it has the right, no one denies it. The subject of the committee's discussion was the fundamental question whether, in this situation, the Polish government uses such a veto in the Polish national interest. And most of both the debaters and the voters of the two committees said, in support of this resolution, that in the deepest Polish national interest is the rule of law, sovereign and strong Poland in the centre of a united Europe, that veto or threat of veto is contrary to the Polish reason for the state and that sacrificing the key interests of the state Both economic, political and strategic, which we haven't talked about yet, but I'm ready to have this conversation. In order to protect the interests of the governing party, it is contrary to the Polish state's reasoning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u43	Thank you very much. There's no... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.]] Marshal Borusewicz has another question, right? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Is it that the veto does not actually concern the budget, but is the result of dissatisfaction with something else, namely the regulation? So the threat of budgeting is basically not based on reservations to the budget, but on reservations to something else, to a regulation linking the budget to the rule of law, so it's basically a substitute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u45	That's exactly what it is. However, according to the information I have, but which were also discussed at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Poland or the Polish Government gave Brussels diplomatic channels clearly to understand that it is not a matter of substance, i.e. vetoing budgetary solutions, but that it is an element of the game so that the rule of law mechanism does not enter into force, a mechanism requiring Member States to comply with the principles of the rule of law contained both in the European Treaties, as I mentioned, and in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This threat of veto to the budget package is intended to achieve precisely these objectives so that a regulation combining the rule of law with the budget does not enter into force in this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u46	You ask the senator, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u47	Thank you very much. I'm referring to that last question. Earlier, the question was whether you were aware of the cases that some countries may not have used the veto itself, but the threat of a veto, and the answer was yes, there were such cases. So are you familiar with any country's veto threat to the budget because it was dissatisfied with completely different solutions? Is that the case you're familiar with? That's the first question. And the other. Is the regulation which has so far been agreed in the so-called. A trilogue, after its issue, may be challenged to the Court of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u48	You're welcome... [[And can Poland do so if it does not like it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u49	I'll start with the second question. Yes, Poland can challenge this regulation to the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is the first message and answer. And the answer to the previous question is: no, never before in history any country, before Poland and Hungary, threatened veto due to other solutions. Moreover, no country has ever threatened veto to the budget in history after agreeing to this budget. As we all remember, This is knowledge that even state television is unable to cover. The government itself boasted of this budget no more than 4 months ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u50	Thank you very much. The last question before recess is asked by Senator Czerwinski. If it fits in a minute, we'll give Senator Majer another chance. One minute, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I'm smiling under the mask. Well, let's make it a minute. Mr. Senator, I am now referring to the text of the draft resolution. The Senate of the Republic of Poland provides fellow citizens, as well as the nations with whom we co-create the Union, that it will do its utmost to ensure that the government of our country ends with political upheaval. I understand that by political contentiousness you mean the main object of this resolution, i.e. the threat of vetoing the European Union budget. Is the exercise of their rights in the process of agreeing, the use of these tools has probably already been used by the majority of European countries Can you call it political brawl? Why are you presenting such a negative, pejorative assessment of the government's actions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u52	Thank you, Senator, for that question. It's pretty crucial. This is precisely because we believe that a veto, the threat of which each country can play during negotiations, is not used in accordance with the interests of the Polish state, i.e. in order to increase this budget or to transfer such or other appropriations to other objectives. And that would be useful. I would remind you that, in this new, recently negotiated budget, agricultural funds are decreasing rather than growing, which has been promised many times. But the Polish Government does not use this veto for this purpose, only to be able to continue, colloquially speaking, to take Polish courts as their faces, to trample the independence of the courts, as they do step by step, more and more, for 5 years. And that is why we believe that this is contrary to Polish interest. This is not about the intention itself or the mechanism of the veto, to which every country has the right, but about the fact that we use it not in the national interest, but in the interests of the governing party, which alienates us even more, which makes Poland even more lonely. We are no longer on the margins of the Union, but we are slowly starting to go beyond that margin. This is clearly explained in the first 4 or 5 paragraphs of the draft resolution. That's why in summary, in the punch line, it's called political upheaval.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Major will ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u54	I'm gonna cut it short. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I will return to the answer you gave to the senator, Marshal Borowski. Are you familiar with the cases... Or else: are the committees familiar with other cases of budget dependence on non-negotiable solutions? Well, that's kind of the answer. You gave this answer to Senator Borowski, and this was the answer to the question of the use of this mechanism. Are you familiar with previous cases of budget dependence on any additional elements that are not enshrined in the Treaties of the European Union? [[It's written down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u55	Yes, it is. You're welcome. If you don't mind, I'm asking you to give me a short answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, the budget has been repeatedly linked to the Treaty requirements and the Treaty requirement is also a requirement for Member States to comply with the rule of law. Yeah, it's in the treaties. So it's never been related to extracurricular requirements before, and this time it's not related to extracurricular regulations either.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u57	Thank you very much. Senator, as announced, you will have a chance after your break. Dismissed until 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 30 to 13 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u58	We are returning to the discussion of the first item on the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the European Union budget. We continue to ask questions to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the applicants authorised by Senator Marcin Bosacki. The question is Senator Victor Durlak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, as we have already established in the course of the questions, each country has the right to a veto and has repeatedly been used by the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, my question is specific and concerns such a matter: have any of the chambers of national parliaments ever adopted a similar resolution to the one to be taken here in the Senate? Are you able to answer that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u60	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u61	Thank you for that question. As far as other members of the European Union are concerned, I have no such knowledge, but a similar one, only different in substance and passed a resolution adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Poland last week.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u62	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order for us to know what we are talking about with regard to this resolution, it is also worth knowing what is the real, not the media, but above all the actual opinions about it of various bodies, especially European ones. From one opinion I have already questioned the senator here, namely the European Court of Auditors, but there are also opinions much more predisposed to this organisation... or institutions, I apologize, that is, the Legal Service of the European Council. Could you tell us what the content of these opinions is? Positive? Negative? It's a regulation that both the government and us are talking about, as I understand it... How many such opinions were there, and why was one of them, the one from October 2018, classified?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u64	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u65	Mr. Senator, I don't have that kind of knowledge. I know that the draft regulation in 2018 was a different project than the one that is finally being considered at the moment. Because this was created only three weeks ago. And it wasn't, I have to say, the subject of the joint Senate committees this morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u66	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. We are now in the middle of a discussion... Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Unfortunately, this is not the first time in Polish history, when a matter very important for the future of our country is very antagonizing Poles. And, interestingly, in this debate, which I will talk about in a moment, unfortunately in an inevitable way for the history of Poland on both sides of the general issues there were very similar arguments. Well, one side says it defends the Polish national interest, the other side says the same thing. It is worth asking ourselves whether this is the first time in Polish history. No, it's not. Let's reach over 200 years back, the Constitution of May 3rd and the Trade Fair Confederation. The trade union, supported by the authority of the Pope then, supported by the authority of bishops and the Primate, asks Russia to intervene against the Constitution on 3 May, which brought Poland closer to a revolutionary Europe then. According to the czar's choir, Katarzyna, then Pope and a large part of Polish bishops say: it is contrary to Polish tradition, because the Liberum veto, which the Constitution endured on 3 May, is our Polish tradition. This tradition of arms and the Pope, and the brightest tsarica of Russia. And some, we already know today, traitors, and some of the most sincere Polish patriots followed this argument and, like the Pope, welcomed with joy the Russian army entering the borders of the then free Republic. Yes, this army, which came to push us away from Europe, accompanied the prayers of Polish bishops and the voice of the Vatican, wonderfully, that the Tsaryca suppressed Polish freedom. What happened 100 years later, over 100 years later, during the 1905 revolution? Even today, when we see, even in Wikipedia, how is the revolution of 1905 described in the Polish Kingdom... We've got a setup. We can see who was on the side. On one side we have the Polish labour movement, the Polish Socialist Party Józef Piłsudski, and on the other side It's in Wikipedia. Opponents: carat, Ochrana, Polish Conservatives and National Democracy. Add to this many bishops calling on Poles to fight the revolution, along with the Tsar. And they did it again in the sense that they were patriots. Today, for the third time in the context of relation to the European Union, we are asking this fundamental question: who is a patriot, who works in the interests of Poland? Were those who, more than 200 years ago, in defence of traditional values together with Russia, pushed us away from Europe, or those who, against the labour movement, fought for progress and for a better future, were on the side of the Carat, or did those who, together with Putin, want to destroy the European Union? Again, this fundamental question about where the Polish business lies stands before us. And I, knowing that I am also speaking to my political opponents today, who are Polish patriots in my heart, say to you, Brothers and Sisters, remember, because again you are on the same side as Putin, on the same side as the man who said that the greatest tragedy of the 20th century was the collapse of the Soviet Union. He says today that today the worst institution is the European Union, which you criticize with it. And here the Polish government reaches for the argument of veto, against which we are all rebelling on our side. We're asking you a question. I'm saying it without irony. To you, Brothers and Sisters, Poles, I ask the question: in the name of what does the Polish government want to use this veto? Is it because the settlements of this budget are bad for Poland? Is it because the settlement of this budget and this financial perspective do not give a chance to get out of the crisis, that they do not give millions of Poles who, thanks to this money, will be able to cope with the biggest economic disaster that haunts us? No, because the government said that the budget is good for Poland. And yet he wants to veto them. I only want to veto them for one reason only. On account of the rule of law provisions. But you also know, dear friends of the piss, and we know that this dispute is only about one thing. Courts, prosecutors, the independence of the judiciary. And only so that no Polish court can ever tell the Polish prosecutor that he is arresting someone without evidence of crime, as it did not happen a few weeks ago in the case of well-known media people, only so that in Poland the prosecution can do what the prosecution wants, but in fact what the attorney general wants to do and his political superior, only in the name of this you want to risk the future of Poles? Because it is not for the national interests of the Republic of Poland that you are arguing with Europe today. In the name of this business, Europe wants to give us the money to get us out of the trouble we have. And today you are going to war with Europe only because of your particular and evil intentions regarding the Polish justice system. It's clear that we'd like to... It is the norm that we should be together on European policy issues and we should support the common position. It would be good if the government tried to reach such a position with opposition in the case of the biggest challenges, to work them out with us, here, in the Senate, not to underestimate, as Minister Szymański did, for the invitation of Senator Klich. That's where it's notoriously... This is the most busy committee that constantly invites someone from the government just so we can talk. You don't want this conversation, and then it's surprising that we're not with the government, while this government hasn't even tried to rationally agree with us on a position. And yet there have been situations in Polish history, I say here without malice. When everyone, from left to right, supported the Polish government. It was the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. Polish President, sleep. Lech Kaczyński stood up for the Nicen system. Do you remember the passphrase of Nice or death? They were all behind the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, the whole opposition. And they were all in favour of the president who resigned from the Lisbon system... Excuse me, from the Nice system. This, not another system of counting votes and the arrangement of power in the European Union, is today because the government of Jarosław Kaczyński allowed Lech Kaczyński to negotiate one, not another Treaty of Lisbon, which the President himself said was a great success. And of which the same president in the interview said that he was his personal concession to Germany in terms of counting votes within the European Union. This is the truth about our existence in the European Union. Today so many of you, from the PiS senators, are using these anti-European spells of yours. You talk about sovereignty and still treat the European Union as a foreign being towards the Polish state. But, guys, I got some really good news for you. Mr. Senator, Mrs. Senator, and you, and you, are citizens of the European Union, not just citizens of the Republic of Poland. And you are citizens of the European Union because the Treaty of Lisbon introduced and clarified this concept. Moreover, the fact that we are all citizens of the European Union gives us rights in this European Union concerning not only the territory of the Republic of Poland. It's a great value. And we have it through a step forward in the area of European integration, which was the Treaty of Lisbon. To conclude this speech, I would like to appeal to you today, because it is not too late... We have the right to differences in ideology, politics and certainly how long Poland will exist Let's hope there will be forever. The Poles will always argue about something. But, for God's sake, let's stop arguing about imponderabilia, about our freedom, about our security! And there is no better way to secure a better future for our children than for the European Union. We can't think of a better way. Far from perfect, I agree, but I want to make it clear from this tribune: I know that my children want to stay in the European Union. Polish children and Polish young people see their future in the European Union. We want to stay in the Union and we ask you: do not bring the Lightest Republic out of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is a special moment, so it's worth recalling those days 16, 17 years ago when we were all in euphoria. We were in euphoria when most Poles in the referendum voted for Poland's accession to the European Union. It was a moment of lifting. It was a moment from which you could actually count the new time, set the watches again. And then, a year later, this moment came when we were officially in the Union. What was that? Was that a return to Europe? No, because geographically Poland has been in Europe all this time. Was that a return to European values? Well, no, because in our hearts, as well as in the political programmes of Solidarity and all post-solidarity groups, as well as in the political programme of the left, which negotiated this treaty, and the PSL, which the same treaty supported, and even in the programme of many representatives of today's power, were included such anchors as the rule of law, civil freedom, human rights. It seems to me that the most important reason for our joy was that we finally reached our goal, and this was the European Union's goal. Previously, the target was NATO, and even earlier, independence. This was the last of three major projects carried out in previous years. This was the last of the goals that we have achieved together. The script of this project was written in Polish. The script of what the government is proposing right now is written in Cyrillic. [[It's Bulgaria.]] The script of this veto, which is to be composed, is written Cyrillic, because it is in the interest of those who are our opponents, in the interest of our main opponent in the international arena, Russia Vladimir Putin. Poland, thanks to its accession to the Union, broke out of the iron curtain, under the protective umbrella of NATO and the European Union. Objection of the Polish position in the European Union, weakening this position, means the loneliness of Poland, and in the history of Poland's loneliness always meant one loss of independence, the loss of sovereignty, about which at the moment so much was spoken by supporters of the veto. This is cynicism; it is hypocrisy; it is a great European lie. You are trying to wear your party interests into the garments of the sovereignty of Poland's interests. Is anyone gonna fall for that? I don't believe it. And probably that's why 2/3 of Poles reject this veto, which is currently threatened by the PiS government. This rejection is rational, because Poles know that both the budget and the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction are needed for Poland, just as the rain is needed for burnt land. Well, our land is burned down by the outbreak of coronavirus. These measures will be used to rebuild the economy, but also to rebuild each Polce and each Pole individually. These measures are so that Poles will actually get back on their feet. They are designed to rebuild bankrupt companies to help workers who are fired from their jobs to help farmers who do not have their markets at the moment to help, as one of our guests, the entrepreneur, the bankrupt industries of the hotel, transport, transport, restaurants, all those affected by the epidemic. That is the essence of the Fund for Reconstruction. That's the kind of reconstruction it's all about. This is about rebuilding the Polish economy and Polish industries. So? And the Polish government wants to veto this fund? This is sabotage. After all, this is an act against the interests of Poland and Poles. The Fund for Reconstruction is another It is an expression of European solidarity. We have been dealing with this European solidarity since the very beginning of the great European project. We are particularly experiencing this solidarity right now by mobilising funds for the fight against the coronavirus, for current needs. It's already happening. The Union's recent decisions since March this year confirmed that it is a Union of solidarity, that solidarity is the basis on which the EU project is based. So? The PiS government wants to deny this European solidarity? He wants to be the detonator that blows up European solidarity, this big project, which is the Fund for Reconstruction? Does the PiS government want to contribute to the agony of European solidarity? These are all questions that are going to come out of your mouth. After all, it is unimaginable that this great new project, which is to serve all Europeans and all European economies, should be blown up. And the PiS government wants to do it. I am afraid that if he continues to support his veto, Europeans will not allow it and then Poland will be outside of the Reconstruction Fund. And then Poland No longer Hungary, because Viktor Orbán is no longer a naive person, because Victor Orbán Jarosław Kaczyński will leave him alone, just as he left him when there was a vote on Donald Tusk's candidacy as President of the European Council. Poles and Poles, they belong. No, as Prime Minister Szydło said, politicians, but they belong to Poles and Poles. Finally, the third point I would like to talk about. If this threat had been met, it would have meant that the PiS government had a hand in creating a Europe of many speeds. Europe is already moving forward at different speeds. After all, not all countries belong to the Schengen area, not all countries belong to the euro area. We are happy in the Schengen area, but we are not in the euro area. We are therefore part of this second-speed Europe. If the PiS government were to deny the budget and the Fund for Reconstruction, this would mean further marginalisation of Poland and support for these different speeds in the European project. And who's gonna be happy about that? The one hoping to destroy the European Union, Vladimir Putin. Ladies and gentlemen, these are three reasons. Firstly, the interest of Poland and Poles in rebuilding after the pandemic. Secondly, European solidarity. Which means I'm giving something to get something in the future. Finally, thirdly, this need for European unity, opposing different speeds in the European Union, for which this idea to veto the budget and the Fund for Reconstruction, to gain impunity for itself, for politicians and their officials from PiS breaking the law in Poland... This idea is not only disgusting, but it is also fatal for Poland. Therefore, support for today's resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is really support for the fair Polish-language Polish way to success. Non-support for this resolution means support for policies written by Cyrillics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For many Poles, the European Union has been a dream, a dream and a symbol, a symbol and a synonym for democracy, respect for human rights, security within voluntary, not imposed collective security systems, as well as prosperity, prosperity and economic development. Poles were jealous of how fast Western European countries rebuild after the destruction of World War II on the basis of Marshall's 1947 plan, from which the Polish authorities did not benefit. Today we are at a special moment. We can decide for ourselves to benefit from the benefits of the European Union for the following years in terms of the budget and the Fund for Reconstruction. The Poles took this decision, expressed it in a referendum, agreeing to join Poland in the European Union. They express this consent every day when they are asked about their assessment of Polish membership in the European Union and they are speaking in public about how many benefits and benefits of this membership they see. For the last 15 years Poland has realized these dreams. We were members of the European Union... Not only were we members, but we co-created this structure as initiators of important initiatives, such as. that concerning the Eastern Partnership. Poles did not have the opinion of the European institutions imposed, as we have heard in this Chamber, we have co-created these opinions for many years. It was the Poles who led the European institutions, the European Parliament and the European Council over the years. I have had the privilege of directing the work of the Contact Committee, which brings together the heads of control bodies of all the European Union countries. Of course, it can be said that unfortunately in recent years Poles as heads of European institutions no longer exist. Poles are only where our representations are, so to speak, with a key, on a place that belongs to us as a Member State of the European Union. But that might change. Today we are assessing the effects and consequences of decisions and budget negotiations. These negotiations were held at the July 4th European Union Summit in an absolutely unconfrontational way, in a way that I hope will It will encourage reflection in the context of the assessment of what has been negotiated. How to assess the budget for the next 7 years? It's worth remembering the numbers here. This budget is one trillion and 74 billion euros. In addition, there is a EUR 750 billion reconstruction fund to help EU economies get back on their feet after the Coronavirus pandemic. For Poland in this new financial package there are about EUR 123 billion of grants, including 27 billion from the Reconstruction Fund, which you block effectively, because there are not even solutions such as a budget commission. In addition, Poland can count on about EUR 32 billion of cheap loans from the Fund for Reconstruction. Together, it is over EUR 150 billion. With today's course, it is about PLN 750 billion, which Poland, Poles, Polish entrepreneurs expect. What did Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki say about this budget, which has not changed by one cent today, in July in the Polish Sejm, when he presented the results of these negotiations? Let us quote: Poland returns from the EU summit as a great winner, we are the largest beneficiary of the Cohesion Fund, and the Union budget means that this is a huge opportunity for Poland for a golden decade and this opportunity is significantly higher, as the Prime Minister said. He continued to talk about the negotiating success of Poland, about the fact that they decided hard, numerical, substantive arguments. Have these hard, numerical, substantive arguments changed for several months? No. The Prime Minister continued to say at the Parliamentary Speaker that it was these arguments that decided our victory that contributed to Poland's coming back from this European summit as a great winner. We can be very proud of the effectiveness of all our diplomacy, the effectiveness of the Council of Ministers, because it is a common cause and a joint victory. So don't take that victory away from us. The Prime Minister continued to say that our victory is not only a victory of Poland, that it is a victory of European solidarity and that Poland among 27 countries is in the first place as regards the total pool of available funds. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have such a short memory that we do not remember these words. It is worth quoting today, especially to all those who would like to take this victory away from us. Today, in the first part of the discussion on our resolution, the questions addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur referred to the opinion of the European Court of Auditors in the context of the draft budget. I have the Official Journal of the European Union in front of me. There, the opinion of the European Court of Auditors, which was referred to as Opinion No 1/2018, is presented in full. What do we read in this opinion? The opinion referred to the proposal for an evaluation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of the Union budget in the event of general rule of law deficiencies in the Member States. You did not quote this opinion in detail, you specifically quoted the opinion of one member of the Court. And in the opinion, what can we read? I will present here a passage in the General Notes of this document in part the general objective of protecting the budget of the European Union. The document states: The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as documents drawn up by the Council of Europe, which are based in particular on the expertise of the Venice Commission, provide guidance on the fundamental importance of the rule of law. I would like you to refer to the documents and then follow the guidelines contained in them. The Venice Commission has already assessed the situation in Poland several times and presented its recommendations. It's time to make it happen. It further states that these guidelines on the fundamental importance of the rule of law are the common value of the European Union in accordance with Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. The agreed rules include: the principle of legalism, which means a transparent, responsible, democratic and pluralistic process of law-making; legal certainty; prohibition of arbitrary action by executive authorities; independent and impartial courts; effective judicial control, including control of respect for fundamental rights, and equality before law. Are fundamental rights undefined? 'Cause you were talking about inconspicuous terms. They're defined very precisely. Art. 2 The Treaty on European Union states that these values are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and the rule of law. As you can see, I am trying absolutely uncontroversially to convince you that the only good decision is that the Polish government participates in this broad financial project to rebuild the European economy after the negative consequences of the economic pandemic, and that this is what our resolution, the Senate resolution, is intended to do, clearly indicating that the decisions ahead of us are not a threat, but a huge opportunity and fate for the lottery that we have as a Member State of the European Union. I'm doing this so that the Pole can be wise to harm, not to harm. Today before Poland one of the most important decisions. Will we and the rest of the European Union rebuild Poland after the pandemic, or will we fall into a geopolitical drift of loneliness? I hope we make the right choice. Our decision will be judged by future generations of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the threat of a veto, the veto that the Polish government wants to make in the European Union, in Brussels. But the case seems extremely strange, because it's a veto or it would be a veto for nothing. Could it be a veto for nothing? Of course, I don't mean the colloquial, at least, to anything that means that something is bad, weak, worthless, because it's obvious. But this veto is addressed, at least declaratively, by the government, firstly, to the budget of the European Union After all, it is already accepted, established, and, as has already been said here, in an enormous amount of over 1 trillion euros, almost 1 trillion EUR 50 billion. Could it be a veto to the European reconstruction programme, colloquially and on a daily basis called the Fund for Reconstruction? No, because it is EUR 750 billion, and of which almost 60 billion is only for Poland, for Polish farmers, for Polish entrepreneurs, for Polish economy, for Polish local governments who build roads, schools, gymnastics halls. This is for the Polish state, which now needs money for hospitals, health care, social assistance for those who are suffering from an epidemic. So it can't be a veto because this amount and this budget are already adopted. Could it then be a veto to a regulation that binds European Union funds to compliance with the rule of law? Well, neither is it, because this regulation is already adopted, adopted by the European Parliament. So here's the question. I'll try to scratch it. What does Law and Justice veto? What does the Law and Justice government veto? Well, in this case, it's hard to say. that it is the government of Poland, the government of the Republic of Poland, because the government of the Republic of Poland is obliged to take care of the interests of Poland and society. The government of the Republic of Poland is obliged to take care of the interests of the state, and this veto is contrary to the interests of the state, contrary to the interests of the nation, contrary to the interests of the state. So what does the Law and Justice government want to achieve? What are you negotiating? You keep saying that this is an instrument of negotiation, not much of it, here in this Chamber today, it has been raining all the time, that it is a natural instrument, in accordance with the European Union's law. Yeah, no one's denying that, but the question is, what do you want to deny? I hear the regulation, which is the beam in your eye, is against the treaties. Then I refer you to the Treaty on European Union, Article. 17, Art. 7 and, of course, the one that is crucial in this matter, Article. 2, defining, Primo, values of the European Union, secundo, precisely the fundamentals of the rule of law, which are to be followed by all countries, not only Poland, but all countries. I'm also sending you to art. 322 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, ba!, especially for this article, because on the basis of this article Poland has long been in operation and in force, and we respect their similar regulations, which concern the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. So there is not even a precedent and a lie here or, to put it mildly, it is not true to say that the regulation has no legal justification, legal basis in the treaties and regulations of the European Union. We still don't know what it is, what you're negotiating, what you want, and why you veto. Because I think that 60 billion to rebuild Poland after the pandemic we want all these 139 billion for cohesion funds, structural funds, etc. We all do. So what don't you want? What you don't want, what almost 90% want. citizens in Poland? Because in all the polls, between 85 and 90%. citizens are in favour of Poland's membership in the Union and express their views on the positive assessment of the effects of our membership. I think it's something else. I put this thesis, that, first of all, the start of this war, now not only Polish-Polish, but also Polish-European, Polish-EU, you want to cover the inability of your governments and the inability to fight the epidemic of Coronavirus. Secondly, the start of this Polish-EU war you want to cover the inability to manage the state in times of crisis and the negative consequences for the economy, entrepreneurs and their employees. Third, and that's probably the worst part, you want to cover up the United Lawyer's internal crisis, the fact that it's all coming apart in your hands, it's falling apart. It's probably not gonna take long, and it's got to be covered up, throwing some curtain, distracting public interest from its own crisis, creating another crisis. That's your old rule: putting out another fire, a bigger fire. But why do I say it's the worst? Because that means that you put the party business, the partying business above the interests of the state, above the social interest, above the interests of all of us. To conclude, I would like to join all those who appeal, although I do not know whether the appeal is a good form of establishing a relationship with you, because so far all these appeals have been like throwing peas against the wall. I want you to come to your senses. Politicians pass, political parties pass, governments pass. I want this country to continue! And the Polish state will last when it will be a full, strong credible, reliable member of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 5 years the arrogance, insulting all the government of law and justice has made Poland lose its position in the European Union. Today's threat of vetoing Law and Justice increases this loss not only among EU politicians but also among all citizens of the European Union. Because how is it possible that during a pandemic that decimates Europeans, us, Poles, who takes away the work of our citizens, which leads to the liquidation, the bankruptcy of thousands of companies, there was a country, maybe two Member States, which at such a difficult time, which require enormous help, announce a veto to this necessary assistance? You can say veto is the law of every country. Yes. But is pandemic time the best time to use it? Is it well understood and held accountable to its own and even to all European citizens when it comes to pandemics? The PiS government very often explains its decision so that the need for a veto is the result of the need to fight for sovereignty. She's scaring the Union to force us to accept homosexual marriages, older adoptions of children by single-sex couples, even child trafficking at fairs. How is it possible for the government of the 21st century to tell such 19th-century crap to society? Experience of the last five years forces the question whether sovereignty in the mouth of the rulers does not sometimes mean ensuring impunity at the expense of society. I assure you: through the Fund for Reconstruction, we will not lose our sovereignty. In 2003, the Council Poles agreed to join the European Union and agreed to interrelationship in certain areas of life Let me stress: interrelationship in certain areas of life To transfer decision-making powers in these areas to the EU level. However, this does not mean, as the politicians of the United Right claim, that it is the Brussels officials who make these decisions for us. This is another untruth. Why are we being fed so untruthful? So do government officials completely fail to understand what our membership is all about? Well, ladies and gentlemen, Polish representatives participate in each decision and the strong position of Poland depends on the results of these decisions. We decide in the votes and work of Polish parliamentarians in the European Parliament. We decide in the votes and the strength of the arguments of the Prime Minister and Ministers in the Council, we decide the strength and position of the Polish Commissioner in the European Commission. Today at the committee meeting I heard that Poland's weak position is being exploited by strong Member States. So what does getting up from the knees of the PiS government in the international arena look like? Is this the signing of international agreements at the desk of the President of the United States? Is this waving a saber in the European Union, in which it is standard to negotiate? What happened that in the last 5 years Poland from the second, third position among leaders fell to the second ten? Is the goal of falling to the last place? We are losing our position in the European Union, and nature hates the vacuum. This position we leave in the Union is occupied by Romanians. It is Romania who teaches our government what it should do. I am not surprised, therefore, that the politicians of the United Right are upset and reluctant, that they are discouraged from our membership of the European Union. The politicians of the United Right often address their adversaries with the following words: read with understanding. I would encourage them to use it themselves. The last September version of the regulation on the conditionality of the use of the EU budget clearly indicates what this rule of law is about. Stresses the legality of the use of resources, transparency, accountability, democracy and pluralism in their division It is therefore impossible for the family, colleagues and acquaintances to share them, vice versa: to ensure that society as a whole is able to benefit from them. In the case of loans, it stresses the guarantee of return. Isn't it obvious that the citizens of the countries of net payers who pass on some of their taxes to us so that we can grow more dynamically and raise the standard of our lives, want to be sure that their money will not be wasted by irresponsible governments? Each of us, giving or borrowing our money, would care for the reliability of their use. So what is hidden under the reluctance of our government to accept a reliable, pluralist, addressed to the whole society, all Poles, help? Ladies and gentlemen, what can happen if the PiS government actually vetoes the regulations that they give us, the Poles, a chance for a good and quick reflection after the pandemic? Several scenarios are possible. And so on. 25 countries, creating the Fund for Reconstruction - EUR 750 billion to be allocated It can conclude, as was the case with the 2013 fiscal pact, an international agreement and divide this money between 25 countries and not between 27 countries. It is nonsense to threaten the politicians of the United Right that we can create such a fund within the Visegrad Group. I wonder who from the Visegrad Group will join the project, which will be charged with a huge additional cost. I wonder where there will be banks who want to participate in a project where at least one country does not want to respect the rule of law. Another script? The euro area countries will prepare for the euro area, for their members, a European reconstruction programme and invite the countries that apply to the euro area, so they will invite Romania and Bulgaria. Denmark, Sweden, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic remain outside the zone. Denmark and Sweden are gonna be okay. And what will happen to the Czechs that we will do without this help? Another script? What happens if a decision is made to combine the procedures initiated against the Polish Government and the Hungarian Government in connection with the violation of the law and we are denied the right to vote in the Council? Does the PiS government really want to provoke such drastic decisions for Poles? We hear more and more from representatives of the government that the Polish budget lacks money to help all those who had to close their companies, schools, eliminate beds for patients with other than COVID diseases in hospitals. We hear that there is no money for all doctors who have saved our health and our lives since March under grieving conditions. We receive a clear signal that by the end of the pandemic and after it without the Reconstruction Fund, we will not be able to cope with the crisis in which the government introduced us in its chaotic decisions. Why would the government threaten to veto a supposedly perfectly negotiated budget? On purpose, I say'recommend', and in support of my words I will quote one example concerning farmers and rural areas, which demonstrates this supposed excellence in the negotiated budget. We very rarely go into the details of the arrangements at European Union level. Perhaps it is worth reaching out to them in this case. It is not said that aid to farmers for 20212027 will decrease by 2%. Also 2% They will reduce these subsidies to farmers in our country. Our Commissioner for Agriculture could not ensure that the agricultural budget was at the same level as the one negotiated in 2014 by the Civic Platform Government and PSL for the next five years. The Polish Commissioner could not even win a high budget, at the previous level, for rural areas. What will be the situation in Poland? In Europe, this budget is reduced by 6% and in Poland it is reduced by 16%. This is the truth about the alleged successes of the PiS government's budget negotiations, so the Government of the United Right takes care of the interests of Poles. Is that really what we Poles want? Don't we have enough to put the party business ahead of the Polish business? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u77	The veto is supposed to be in relation to the budget, but it's not about the budget at all. And that's clear. But it's also clear... If the PiS government believes that it does not violate the principles of the rule of law, the division of power and other fundamental principles enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, then why do these announcements of a veto? If the PiS government thinks everything's okay, then why does it say it's gonna veto? This argument is weird. We know and you also know that the rule of law in Poland has been destroyed since 2015. We have discussed this issue many times in this House. We discussed amendments to the Constitutional Court Act and then changes in the situation of the Constitutional Tribunal in general. Only the Court's building was left from this Constitutional Court, but not the contents of this building. It's gone. We discussed amendments to the Supreme Court Act. After all, these subsequent laws were to subjugate the Supreme Court, to subjugate political power, to subjugate the PiS. And the National Judicial Council, which has been subjugated... After all, we see who's there, and we see how these people vote, what decisions they make. The Supreme Court, the new chambers that are formed in violation of the law, in violation of the Constitution... What's this? This is a violation of the rule of law. And in defence of this, in defence of undermining the independence of the courts, the government is threatening the veto of the European Union budget. So he's threatening and, in other words, he's taking hostages for all those who want and should take advantage of this budget. Takes as hostages the Southern State: Italy, Greece, France, well, of course Spain. Those who are waiting for this budget are waiting for the Fund for Reconstruction, this new, additional one, out of the budget. But he also takes us as hostages, Poles. For his will, because that is the way to define the rule of law when it comes to the judiciary, as well as the prosecution, he also takes us hostages and risks us. He is risking the money that the European Union is going to allocate to Poland. He is also risking Poland's place in the European Union, because if there is a veto and I understand that if there is a threat of veto, it is also an opportunity to implement this threat... He is risking Poland's place in the European Union, because I cannot imagine, even if there is no action in the European Union, that the atmosphere around Poland will be the same. She's already angry, and it's gonna get worse. But we already know what the consequences may be, what counterproposals might be. It may be the creation of a Union of two speeds, i.e. the euro area and the others. We've been protesting against it for many years, blocking it. And the Germans were also blocking those proposals that were. You can lead this veto to the implementation of this proposal and then we'll really be pushed aside. I don't know where we might be as a result of this situation. Of course, this is a weakening of the Union, this is a division of the European Union. And we don't really know the consequences of that division. So we're hostages. We, Poles, other countries, the other societies of the European Union are hostages, but the hostages are also the money to reach us all. These are 123 billion for Poland in this financial perspective, in total over a trillion euros for the whole Union. And that's 123 billion euros. I'll say no gold. In addition, to this 123 billion for Poland, it is necessary to add EUR 32 billion of possible low-interest loans and an additional 27 billion from the Fund for Reconstruction in a pandemic situation. Don't we need that? Don't you need this? The government wants to give it up? Because fairy tales that nothing will happen if there's a veto, if this announcement is realized, it's a fantasy. It's a fantasy. If anyone believes that, they really believe some fantastic stories. This decision, which is announced, is a threat, but What do you want me to say? It's a preview. This is a threat to those countries of the European Union that need particularly assistance, namely those of the southern European Union. It is also a threat to us, to Poles. And that's what we don't agree on. That's not what we're gonna agree to. So don't let the government or the government say it's possible to categorise it, it'll be a budget commission, we'll get out of it somehow. No, ladies and gentlemen, this will have significant financial consequences, but it will also have significant political and geopolitical consequences for Poland. The European Union is not only a guarantee for us to operate in this modern, efficient and richer part of Europe, to which other countries are coming, but it is also a geopolitical guarantee for us. And I would not just like to be a passive observer of the removal of Poland from the Union. You are already leading the Union out of Poland, breaking the rule of law, breaking EU values. Now what? Well, that's another step in getting the Union out of Poland, isn't it? Now it will be rather the removal of Poland from the Union. Well, because if this veto functions, it will already be bringing Poland out of the Union, it will be a different situation when it comes to the quality side. So we can't let that happen. And do not think that such a decision will remain unanswered, the answer which Poles will give you. And over 80% of Poles want to be in the Union. If you don't want to take your government and leave the Union. We remain, together with our nation, which supports the Union, wants to be in the Union and will defend the Union, just as we do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Poles still do not believe that our Polish government wants to block the EU budget. They have grounds for this because the specialization of this government is to say something and then do something completely different. But even if there is a secret strategy hidden under the threats of the President of the Polish Government, repeated by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, I will remind you that David Cameron, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, in holding a referendum, did not think at all that he was bringing Britain out of the European Union. And he did it. I expect that the Polish government can also manage not only to block the budget, but also to get Poland out of the European Union. This government has a unique ability to achieve the opposite goals to those it declares. And although it does not sound pathetic, I have no doubt that Poles do not want such a policy, because they also love the Union for the money that we receive for development and for a better life. When 77% in 2003 Poles voted for Poland's accession to the European Union, mainly because they wanted to live like Europeans: drive better cars, on better roads, live in better equipped apartments, have warmed houses, bigger TVs. And today, 16 years after Poland's accession to the European Union, this enthusiasm is even greater. Today more than 80% of Poles want to continue to be in the Union and benefit from belonging to this part of Europe. It means that they see these benefits, confirmed by hard facts: our country is developing, we live better, thanks to money from the European Union. Departure to Germany is no longer a trip to another world. Our houses and German houses, our streets and German streets, our schools and German schools are similar today. 20 years ago it wasn't like that, it was two different worlds. And the statistics confirm these impressions. In 2004, Polish GDP per capita, counted per person, was only 40% German GDP. Today it's 60%. We've caught up to 20%. We catch up with Europe, we catch up with Europe's standard of living. No matter how much you want to make fun of it, it is. And the budget you want to veto is unique. Over the next 7 years Poland has a chance to receive funds similar to those it has received over the past 14 years within 2 financial perspectives. And, ironically, the Polish government sees it and appreciates it. In July, Prime Minister Morawiecki boasted that it was his fault that we had such a large budget. And now he wants to block this budget? The logic of such an attitude is appalling, I suspect, at the third grade of primary school. More importantly, Poles are looking forward to this money. Within the framework of the new instrument, the Fund for Reconstruction, more than 1 000 200 projects have already been submitted, about 600 of them. These are local government projects. What's interesting? The Polish government itself urges the submission of projects that could be carried out by the Fund for Reconstruction, and makes them itself. To my question, who is to pay, who is to give the money to finish the canal digging by measuring, the minister said: write a request for funding from the Fund for Reconstruction. And our city is making such an application, and it adds four other applications. And now the president's asking me, what's going on here? They've asked for applications, and now they don't want to take the money to implement them? In Elbląg, where investments worth PLN 1 billion have been made with EU funds, it is impossible to explain to people why we do not want to accept the EU budget. It is similar in other cities. There is a long list of problems where billions of euros are also needed. Each year 40 and 50 thousand Poles die of contaminated air. Among the 50 cities with the biggest threats due to pollution, 36 cities are cities in Poland. Without EU funds, we will not be able to solve this problem. I ask: who will have on their hands the blood of these tens of thousands of Poles, which we will not save because we are doing some kind of mishap about blocking the EU budget? Poland is plagued by droughts, floods. PiS has already stopped the flood prevention program for Żuławy. The PO-PSL government managed to carry out tasks under this programme for 600 million, but the tasks for 1.5 billion PLN are waiting for them to be carried out. Where are you going to get the money for this project? Wait till the Żuławy sink? As far as the Polish rivers are concerned, barges can swim through them so that flood waves can influence them in times of drought. you could use this water, you need to invest from 100 to 140 billion PLN. The Polish government says that it will implement this programme by 2030 with EU money. How do you want to accomplish this purpose? By blocking the EU budget? These are just a few examples of investments needed in Poland, which we will not implement if we block the EU budget. And from this perspective, which I am talking about, in the announcement of the veto, the worst part is that, unlike other promises, you are capable of fulfilling it. This can be easier because the countries of the European Union have had enough of the fights that the Polish government has caused and will not be under the weight of our so-called "website." Get up off your knees. Nor can we explain ourselves that Yalta is the one who has given us such a fate that Tusk is to blame. Is Germany guilty of one The Polish government. They already treat this government as a European freak today, as shown by the fact that we are fighting the whole of Europe almost alone again. Orbán helps us to protect ourselves from the same accusations that we protect ourselves from. We're fighting something that's 77%. Europeans support and even demand this. Interestingly, Poles also agree to link the Union budget with the application of the rule of law, 73% Poles support the link between the budget and the rule of law, and only 16% He's against it. Poles already know that big money in the hands of politicians who do not respect the rule of law is a greater threat than an opportunity. They know that Kaczyński's electoral programme of taking over the spheres of life, over which politicians should never have power, that taking over power over the judiciary, governments, the media is dangerous and can only be stopped by European solidarity to protect democratic values. But I don't have any illusions. You can veto the budget, to the detriment of Poland, but your real programme, for which you want to remove us from the Union, is impossible. Not with the Poles. You're only giving Poles another reason to go out on the street again. Poles will not be able to push values out of Europe. So I appeal to the Senators and Senators of Law and Justice: call with us the Polish government to withdraw from the threat of vetoing the EU budget and thus the inevitable entry of Poland into Polexite or at least the absolute marginalisation of our country's position. That's what the sovereign expects of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u80	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Mark Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am listening to this debate, in which the Senators of the Senate are mostly speaking, and I am thinking to myself: how many words do you have to say in order to present reality in a way that does not correspond to the truth? All the time in this debate, you are promoting a completely false picture of the current situation, a false, very infantile picture of the European Union as an institution, its policy, its financial policy, its principles. There is not really a serious debate in the Senate about the current situation, a very important situation, an unprecedented situation, a breakthrough situation and a decisive future for the European Union. This is because the European institutions prefer these strongest, most influential European countries, with a particular dominance of Germany, decided to use the negotiations of the long-term financial perspective, in addition to the very special situation of pandemics, to make sure that countries such as Poland, but in fact all the countries of the European Union, put themselves against the wall, do not give a choice and create such a narrative that opposition to clearly incompatible with the Treaties and with all the existing principles of the functioning of the European Union of the rule of law is an attack on the Polish society, on the European budget, is some particular vileness, because the money needed to combat the crisis is being collected. Friends do not function that way and that is not how friends work towards each other, they do not function and they do not act to each other, who have equal status in the Treaties, who have a unanimity in the Treaties for deciding such matters. The state has said so many words about European money. And do you not see that the fundamental threat of this entire rule of law is precisely that money which we rightly and legally deserve, which has been negotiated, which has been negotiated by governments, can now be arbitraryly held back, restricted, taken away by a procedure that we have not agreed to by entering the European Union and at the various stages of our membership of the European Union by debating these aspects? This is simply an insolent, legal, and politically insolent procedure, ladies and gentlemen. And that must be clearly said to the Poles. And Poles, Dear Senators of the Senator Majority of the Senate, as in the vast majority in favour of membership in the European Union, appreciate Poland's membership in the European Union, and in the majority they are in favour of the present veto, because they believe that such a connection between these matters is simply shameful, outrageous and usually illegal in the world. And about this rule of law, changed by all cases, we listen here all the time. The problem of the European Union today is precisely that it is becoming an increasingly illegal institution. It's becoming an institution where the law doesn't rule. It's politics. And if a law rules, it rules the law of a stronger one, the one who has more power to influence European money, European funds are not the European Union's favour. Even if in some aspects of membership we are a net payer and a beneficiary of huge European funds, they do not come out of nowhere. I remind you of the multi-billion-dollar contribution, I remind you of the costs of opening up the European market, everything that is a great business for those countries of the European Union, which a few years ago agreed to another enlargement of the European Union. Let's stop being so naively infantile. Both the European Union itself and subsequent enlargements are primarily due to the calculated interests of the great players of the European Union. And we're in the game of these interests. However, we are to participate on an equal basis, without complexes, without all the overbuilding that constantly puts us in a row, so either we have the right to say nothing, or we have the right to remain silent, and in fact someone wants to decide for us all the time. One of the leading politicians of the left once said: yesterday Moscow, today Brussels. Well, you can't agree with that kind of thinking. This is a completely different relationship, a union of sovereign states. And for us, this sovereignty is an absolutely crucial value, the highest value. And with great concern we see that this sovereignty is becoming increasingly limited. We, when signing the treaty, agreed to limit this sovereignty in some respects. We were aware of that, we were aware of that, because that is the specificity of entering such an extensive international organisation as the European Union. But we have never agreed to a European state, to a European constitution, to transform the European Union into a federation. This idea, I remind you, fell several years ago, did not gain the support of other Member States, so the European Union is still the organisation of sovereign, independent, equality-based and key decisions by unanimity. Everything else is simply the usurpation of the European institutions and these dominant European countries. I said that on the committee today, but I'm gonna say it again. For the past four years in the Senate, I was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. On different levels I watched this conscious, thoughtful and total I'm gonna stress that again. I'm using a strong word on purpose. The very insolent and cynical way of introducing equal and equal ones within the European Union. This concerned whether it was a special status for the euro countries or a special status for those countries that are economically dominant. In fact, when they don't like it, it's like... restrict individual freedoms in the European Union, such as the free movement of goods, services, persons, transport, etc. There's no sentiment here. This is a very thoughtful and consistent action to maintain dominance in the European Union all the time. The time has come to stand firm against it. A veto as one of the powers conferred by the Treaty on each Member State is a good instrument to stand firmly against. Of course, it creates some difficulties, because until we have an agreement, there will be a budget commission, but it is also not that the whole long-term financial perspective is collapsing. You just have to sit down at the negotiating table and get out of this deadlock. If we don't give a veto, there'll be political circles again, the use of the tribunal, the use of the European Commission. Well, it's gonna be the way it was again, and it's just not okay. The European Union is suffering from a huge democratic deficit in terms of its functioning. Apart from the European Parliament, no key institution comes from universal choice. A huge number of key decisions are taken by Eurocrats, by people who have nothing to do with individual Member States. These problems are getting worse, and there is no reflection in our political and legal elites to stop them from doing so. Such processes must lead to increasing disparities, inequalities, conflicts, legal and political problems. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, it's been 10 minutes.]] Last sentence. In addition, the role of institutions which are particularly important in the context of the rule of law procedure is increasing. This is the legal role of European tribunals, the role which is completely unknown to European law, to continental law. These courts actually create the law on the basis of precedents, and yet the law is enshrined in the Treaties. In conclusion, I will say this: such a resolution is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because it falls within the competence of the Polish government, into the competence of the Polish Sejm, which is entitled to conduct foreign policy. This is another manifestation of an alternative Senate policy, a policy that is contrary to the Sejm and government policy. It is harmful and will have no effect Neither political nor legal, except for the great confusion in the internal and foreign arena. I have been observing European politics for many years and I really do not find any country in which the opposition would play such a negative and cynical role on the international stage as in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u82	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with that last issue you raised, Marshal Pop. I stress that European policy is not just a policy pursued by the government. The co-operation law we adopted in the general consensus was the agreement of all political forces prior to our accession to the European Union, says that the government has a duty to cooperate with the Sejm and the Senate on European policy issues, and the Senate and its organs have the right to speak. Well, this certainly concerns speaking on matters relevant to Polish policy in the European Union. As far as I recall, it was the Law and Justice that advocated strengthening the role of national parliaments in relations with the European Union, which strengthened their role in the European Union. Notabene was one of Prime Minister Cameron's demands to justify voting in the Brexit referendum. So we have the right to speak on this matter. In fact, it would be neglecting one of the important elements of our government mission if the Senate were to remain silent on such matters. I, unlike many people sitting here, am not opposed to the use of veto in the European Union. I'm not talking about abuse, but it's not unusual in itself. Only that the veto should be applied to matters of national interest. Poland has argued several times within the European Union on key issues, e.g. to maintain the Nicen mechanism. We remember the password "Nicea" or death! We've managed to maintain this mechanism for several years. Such unity exists on issues such as energy security, opposition to Nord Stream 2. This kind of unity was in the European Parliament and I am talking about Polish representatives to the European Parliament in the context of posted workers. However, this case, which in recent years caused conflict and led to such a deep involvement of Polish politics, has nothing to do with national interest. The destruction of the judiciary has nothing to do with national interests, has nothing to do with the welfare of the state. Today, it is also clear to the naked eye that the loudly announced reform has not brought any benefit to the citizens. The judiciary is more non-functional than before 2015. Of course, it is completely ridiculous that they need to be subjected even more in order to be functional. But the history of humanity does not know the judiciary without independence and at the same time effective. Yes, he knows various systems that are effective and inefficient, but respectful of the principle of independence. Finally, it is not really about defending the Union as a union of sovereign states against the transition to the federalist model, as you say, Marshal Pęk. Because Prime Minister Morawiecki has accepted a whole series of decisions in recent years, which mean that integration is being deepened. He himself announced in the European Parliament the idea of a new EU tax as a kind of offer for European countries. After all, it agrees, you also agree, to the mechanism of the Fund for Reconstruction, to the next generation fund, which assumes that we will repay debts from new sources, including the new EU tax. Well, everyone knows, and especially economists know that common taxes, communion of debt means deepening rather than relaxing integration. I'm talking about it in terms of simply describing the situation. This is not about any clear concept of Polish policy in the European Union. Well, it's not about stopping the dictatorship of the strong, either, because the whole mechanism is designed so that it doesn't work without small countries. The point is that Poland was radically alone, abandoned by the states of our region. But it is difficult to demand that countries such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania lose their influence in the European Union for the sole purpose of this operation, which is to protect the destruction of the judiciary in Poland. The Senate has no other choice. He must speak in accordance with the draft resolution. I am saying this with the hope that the final verdict of the summit will be beneficial for Poland and that there will be a compromise, a withdrawal from the veto, and perhaps an additional interpretation of the application of the mechanism from the rule of law regulation. This is a very likely way out, and I understand that the Prime Minister wants it. The question is, will he have the political power to make it happen? Well, then, of course, these arguments of your marshal's cracks that it's a fight to be or not to be, about the political issues, the fight against the German dictatorship, if there's an agreement. The agreement is beneficial, it will be beneficial for Poland, so... All the more sensible is our resolution, because it forces a meaningful agreement. Finally, we have reached a position in the European Union by means of various political forces. I remember a moment when the Civic Platform and Law and Justice worked very closely together and were able to force meaningful, rational decisions on the government of the SLD. EU funds are not government resources, they are public funds. We have the right to demand that they be issued in Poland, and we have the right to demand that they be issued transparently and in accordance with the interests of citizens and entrepreneurs. It's not an ordinary kind of policy. This is a state policy, not a government policy, and you need to have a special kind of responsibility for implementing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will clearly vote against the resolution on the content proposed by the applicant. I'd like to use two arguments. The first, in my opinion, is the weakening of the government's negotiating position in a crucial situation when the European Council is to be held on 10 and 11 December, where decisions may be taken in this regard. And we're still in the negotiation phase. It is normal for the parties to stiffen their positions during the negotiation phase and this is an obvious negotiating tactic. The Senate initiative acts as a Trojan horse, weakening the position of the Polish government in these negotiations, and in principle I believe that it plays an extremely negative role, regardless of what anyone considers to be the arguments contained in this draft resolution. And the second element, in my opinion, is important I don't know if it's gone, but I don't think it's gone in the middle of this debate yet. Well, on 17 November, the survey was announced for RMF FM and the Gazeta Prawna Journal, and according to this survey, 57% the respondents are in favour of using a veto in the event of a link between the payments of these Union funds and the so-called issue. The rule of law. Of course, this poll has already generated comments from various specialists there that it is manipulated, etc., but it was not done on behalf of the Law and Justice, so I took the liberty of quoting its result. High Izbo, in connection with this draft resolution, many arguments have already been presented here. I would like, on behalf of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski and my own, to make amendments which I will allow myself to read briefly. One. In the title of the resolution, the general definition of the subject-matter of the resolution is replaced by the following: "supporting the activities of the Council of Ministers in the field of budgetary negotiations in the European Union'. Two. The text of the resolution is replaced by the following: The Senate of the Republic of Poland notes and recalls that: 1) The Republic of Poland is a democratic and sovereign state of law, constituting a political community of all citizens; 2. as a member of the European Union, the Republic of Poland and its citizens have the right to respect their rights and sovereignty, on an equal footing with all other countries and their citizens, on the basis of the provisions of the Treaty on European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with their secondary law of the European Union; 3. the rule of law set out in Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 of the Treaty on European Union contains the principle of legal certainty, which means, inter alia, that any action by public authorities must be based on clear, uniform, precise, pre-defined legal provisions; this concerns both the Polish and the EU legal order; (4) Whereas, as it is unacceptable to create a law which could lead to discrimination and worse treatment of certain citizens vis-à-vis others, discrimination against Member States and the application of different standards of conduct to them is so unacceptable; whereas this is directly prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Treaty on European Union; 5) In recent years, European Union bodies have repeatedly violated this principle, claiming that reforms introduced in Poland are breaking EU rules - while there is no criticism of the same regulations in force in other Member States of the European Union; 6. the repeated double standards applied by the European Commission undermines confidence in the integrity of this institution as an impartial guardian of the Treaties and raises concerns about its abuse of rights in the future; 7) the more important is the principle of legal certainty and the need to create precise, inefficient interpretations of the rules on the European Union's Multiannual Financial Framework and the Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity; 8) This is particularly important, as the European Commission's abuse of these rules may result in a complete suspension of financial support for Member States If the European Commission decides to initiate the procedure on the basis of arbitrary and possibly time-changing criteria; 9) any proposal containing provisions that are vague, vague and susceptible to a biased interpretation must be strongly rejected Otherwise, there is a risk that payments from the EU budget may be completely blocked by an arbitrary decision of the European Commission; 10) Many statements by politicians from many European countries leave no doubt that Poland is to be the target of such actions; this issue is therefore crucial from the point of view of the Polish national interest. With this in mind, the Senate of the Republic of Poland: 1) calls on the governments of all the Member States of the European Union and the bodies of the European Union to return to the talks and to reach an agreement in line with the EU Treaties and the conclusions of the European Council of 17 and 21 July 2020; (2) declares that it will not agree to any arrangements which will not guarantee the Member States of the European Union that their rights enshrined in the Treaties are respected; 3) calls on all social and political forces in Poland to refrain from disputes concerning the strategic interests of the State which may be used to undermine the international position of the Republic of Poland and, in particular, not to support or inspire the actions of representatives of other countries contrary to the Polish national interest; 4) stresses that the creation of divisions between the Member States of the European Union is a great irresponsible In particular, during a global pandemic, when as Europeans we should jointly mobilise all our forces to fight for the lives of our citizens and to overcome the crisis that is threatening us; 5) hopes that a reasonable approach to these issues will allow all the Member States of the European Union and the bodies of the European Union to work together to develop clear, objective, compatible with the Treaties, and to quickly reach an agreement and implement the instruments that the European economy needs. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that this is the content of the amendments we propose for the draft resolution. I report them on behalf of Senator Czerwinski and my own. I hope that the High Chamber will accept these amendments, and then the Polish Parliament with one voice will support the Polish government in these difficult, crucial negotiations for our future, which will be in December this year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u86	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u87	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I don't want to prolong work on this first point that's been going on long enough. What I want to say is that a lot of people I talk to, a lot of people who discuss online, are wondering what this is for. Is this some kind of higher policy that we don't understand, or are there some hidden goals that we can't understand, either? Because what is the purpose of Europe today to look at Poland, to look at Hungary... So many countries are not afraid of the word rule of law or other similar words, and Poland and Hungary want to veto it. Well, I can't understand it. And a young generation, too. In this my son asks why it is so. It's hard to answer. Perhaps this discussion today will allow us to understand this in some way. I want to be clear that I was born in Poland. Today I am Polish, but I am also European. I have Polish citizenship, but I also have European citizenship. And I do not want to meet people in a European country and answer strange questions about which country I live in and why Poland as the only country opposes practically the entire Union. Well, it's incomprehensible. And I am appealing here for reasonableness, not to fool around with the amendments and other things that are being prepared here, because simple math... or simple understanding of what's going on doesn't allow us to look at it calmly. And it's extremely uncomfortable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will start by saying, for me, the statement related to the referendum that took place 17 years ago in June 2003. I took part in this referendum and voted for Poland's membership of the European Union, but not because of money. I would like to point out immediately that, of course, the funds that Poland was supposed to receive were unknown. It's neither their size nor their conditions. I took part in this referendum and said yes because of the other values I expected through my membership of the European Union. They were related to the openness of the world, to education, to access to new technologies, and also to those values that we looked at from behind the Berlin Wall with envy. The funds, in my opinion, were secondary. This is an important statement because, during today's debate, a lot of words have been said about why these funds are so important. They're important. They help us overcome civilization barriers, help us catch up with the Western world, including with regard to infrastructure. But I want to make it clear that there are other values that are worth paying attention to. That's one thing. Secondly, the very content of this resolution raises some doubts. I would like to share these doubts, first of all, because I would like to see that the intention that we have in a certain activity is not crooked, clear and does not raise doubts about others. I want to make it clear that I am not in favour of restricting, especially in this case, Poland, the right to use the tools that other countries use in budget negotiations or in other matters that are being negotiated. Therefore, I think that the title itself is unfortunate, because it can be presumed that we are in favour of limiting the veto in this particular case. And I clearly want to stress what Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski said, that this tool is available to all countries and should not be questioned. Another thing: logic. With such a title, one can presume that we are above all against the threat, not the veto. I think this logic is, unfortunately, broken. The government can say they'll drop the threat, but they'll use the veto. Will we be happy then? I therefore believe that the title should be changed. And that's the amendment I'm going to report. I would also like to stress that I always prefer, when the titles are about what we have in mind, the intention is positive and not negative. Therefore, my amendment will give such a title to this resolution: a resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to adopt the negotiated draft budget of the European Union. It will then be clear to everyone that we are primarily in favour of the factography, which is very simple to explain at the moment: the government has negotiated a budget which is decent or, as the Prime Minister claims, very good and should therefore be adopted and the doubts about other issues are shifted to those cases which are known in the European Union, including the use of the Court of Justice, in order to settle them. I believe that the fifth paragraph should be deleted and that the seventh paragraph should receive a clearer wording so as not to raise doubts about the reception of the text. Now a little bit of history, but also justification for my comments. It should be remembered that in December, as I recall, David Cameron applied a veto in several cases. These were not cases related to what he was negotiating at the time. I'll remind you what he was negotiating. He negotiated whether he had doubts about the introduction of fiscal discipline in the euro area. Let me remind you: David Cameron, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, in which the euro does not apply, was not involved in the case in which he submitted a veto... then a few vetoes... This started the Brexit process. Sam Cameron didn't want brexitu, but as it turned out, we know perfectly well today. Therefore, the intention is not important in this case, but action, concrete writing, the correct content. I would like the public to have no doubt as to why the Senate has taken up this subject and why the Senate does so, and not otherwise. Third case, very important. I do not wish to speak on behalf of Poles, and I would prefer that in this text the statements of the Senate on behalf of all Poles, using a large quantifier, do not take place. I always care about that, I try to represent my constituents, sometimes others, but in general, I think that the use of great quantifiers is, in short, out of place. Fourth note. I know the EU institutions, after 5 years working in Brussels I know how many flaws these institutions have. That doesn't mean I'm a Eurosceptic. I am a realist, I look at these institutions also through the prism of institutions in Poland. I watched the slowness, the slowness, the inadequateness, the confusion of the primaries. It's all happening. But in general, I would like to stress that I have the highest respect for this decision of the nation that I am a member of. It was 7 and 8 June 2003, and I would like to refer to it. As far as the key issue is concerned, it is very important for me that this budget is actually adopted as soon as possible, with the acceptance of Poland, without doing this rumor, which unfortunately spoils our image. I'd rather the negotiations were on the budget itself. And I have to say that I would support the government's veto if it were to address key budgetary issues, e.g. mentioned in this room participation in EU funds by the Polish village. These measures seem insufficient, but, as I understand it, we have achieved more elsewhere, and it was necessary to leave somewhere, in short. I am in favour of adopting such a resolution, which will be formulated correctly, adequate, with a title which will not be a misleading title, a resolution in which there will be no possibility of negative interpretation. I'm making amends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, I focused more on the text of the resolution. I described it as sloppy, using offensive, even aggressive terms towards the government, as proclaiming false thesis, whether directly or indirectly, and above all as literal, because there are mainly certain thesis from the widely understood political beletristics, without evidence, without concreteness, that is the best term. As far as some of these allegations are concerned, they were sort of wiped out during the committee meeting, it must be acknowledged, but unfortunately the biggest ones remain. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote one sentence that speaks of the whole of this resolution. Incidentally, I agree with some of the thesis made by Senator Zdrojewski, with the preliminary part. Quote from this resolution: The Senate provides fellow citizens, as well as the nations with which we co-create the Union, that it will do its utmost to ensure that the government of our country ends with political upheaval. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether to provide fellow citizens, because public opinion polls say 57% of them don't want your assurances, he thinks it's the right tool, we're talking about this veto. But you might want to have a bigger percentage, so it's gonna be pushed in some way. But why nations from other countries? What are they guilty of? After all, you claim that this is your thesis, so that it is clear that if there is a budget commission, Poland will lose on it. So by default, the others are going to gain, because the money, the budget funds, they're not going to die. Not much, an instrument of reconstruction, according to your assumptions... i.e. The vetoing countries, Hungary and Poland, will be overlooked by the intergovernmental agreements of the remaining twenty-fives, sorry, twenty-six. What does that mean? That also means there's gonna be more money for them. What do you want to assure all nations of? It's a little muscle tension. Incidentally, what do you have? I'm talking about those who are trying to push through this text of the resolution. The tools... Or else, what tools does the Senate have to influence the government in this regard? That's what this empty-mouthed, muscle-strength thing is. Perhaps the point is to have a few more press conferences. It's impossible to shoot some of them on glass. There's no such scale. So much for the lyrics. Now to be specific. The source, I would call it, controversy and differences of opinion, is the attitude of the Polish Government in the matter of actually three-pack, i.e. the regulation determining financial aid, budget, and Fund for Reconstruction. As long as everything is not negotiated, nothing is negotiated, simple rule. Why is this so that we currently do not have a direct legal opportunity to influence the regulation, that is another matter, we will come to that in a moment. But we still have the tools we're using. They're very far-reaching, and nobody says we want to use them at all costs, in a ruthless way. We're giving some room for compromise. I'm talking about the government, of course. First of all, the historical issue: where did this regulation come from? Well, the 2018 project. I am not talking about what political ideas were before, the European Commission's proposal itself is from 2 May 2018. He was immediately very honest, but at the same time categorically assessed. The Council's Legal Service has assessed it in a clear negative way. This report from the Council's Legal Service has been sealed. That is not enough, the European Court of Auditors, that is, the European institution, which should maintain common sense, should be as little political as possible and should simply deal with accounting and financial control, and this is what it does, he also criticised this regulation, I apologize, then the project. I'll read it to you again. It's just a list of contents, so anyone can google themselves. Here you go, what the ECA, the European Court of Auditors thinks about this regulation. A new mechanism providing for broad discretion for the Commission. Well, why should the Commission decide on such sensitive matters as money for individual countries, and yet to rebuild after the COVID? And who is this Commission? Officials elected by the state? And where are the direct elections? You talk so much about democracy. If the Commission were directly elected, perhaps... Why should this dozen or dozens of officials decide what is to happen to the money we have? By the way, this isn't some kind of EU money. As far as the European Fund for Reconstruction is concerned, this is the money from the loans that we will also make and which we will have to pay back. That's interesting. We're gonna borrow, we're gonna gamble, and then we're gonna have a dozen gentlemen and we're gonna decide whether we can get that money back or not. Well, it's extremely law-abiding and democratic. Let's keep going. Evaluation of the European Court of Auditors: no detailed consultation of interested parties has been carried out. The Regulation has been evaluated all the time. No impact assessment has been carried out. The sources of guidance have not been identified or clear criteria have not been identified. There are no deadlines for the Commission. There is no clear commitment from the Commission to assess the possibility of abolishing own-initiative measures. There is no Commission commitment to assess the potential impact on final beneficiaries and the national budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this assessment is unambiguous: to the basket of such a project. He survived. It survived until 2020 and accelerated under the German Presidency. Well, that's what happened. The 7-year period 2021 is coming up, the budget needs to be adopted, and the regulation should be pushed by the way. But before that, the European Council, in July this year in particular. And the conclusions of this Council of 21 July are clear. I'm going to read points 22 and 24, because it's best to refer to sources, not to what we imagine of sources. .22. The Union's financial interests shall be protected in accordance with the general principles set out in the Treaties of the Union, in particular the values set out in Article. 2 TEU. The European Council stresses the importance of protecting the Union's financial interests. The European Council also stresses the importance of respect for the rule of law. 23. On this basis a conditionality system will be put in place to protect the budget and the Next Generation instrument EU. This is what we call the Reconstruction Fund. And then, in this context, The Commission will propose measures in the event of infringements adopted by the Council by qualified majority. But there is another sentence: The European Council will soon return to this issue. Has she returned? Not yet. Come on, let's go, let's go, The Commission is invited to present further measures to protect the EU budget and the Next Generation EU instrument against fraud and irregularities. As you can see, this was intended to protect the Union budget against fraud in spending money. It was just about financial protection. Please note: the next opinion of the European Court of Auditors was no longer requested. Why would you do that? And the fork will criticize again this regulation, which is to apply. Not only was it cut out of the procedure for the adoption of the regulation itself, but also from the procedure for assessing whether the financial rule of law was infringed or not. It's as if our Supreme Audit Chamber were to be removed from the budget implementation audit process. This is a very good example, an analogy. And this is European democracy. And the criteria are vague. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this. We don't have to be right, we're kind of interested. Why? Because there have been, as a rule, 2 parties • cheap, plus the German Presidency and those who may be harmed by this regulation. I have before me a passage from the Prime Minister of Slovenia's letter, which thus assesses what happened in the formulation of this regulation. I would like to remind you: to formulate against the conclusions of the European Council, and to put it simply, when the German Presidency abused its mandate. There has been an attempt at technical coordination. It is only a matter of technical coordination between the European Parliament's presidency and the President of the Council of the European Union, namely Germany, with a view to establishing an additional instrument. Slovenia, who voted in favour, claims... Next: with this instrument, the political majority in the European Council will decide whether or not the rule of law is respected. If this happens, it will be the end of the European Union. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] This is the conclusion of this part of the speech. That's what this is about. Poland defends the fundamental principles on which the European Union is built. Even outside observers see it, only the Senate of the Republic cannot see it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'll start by referring to my previous speaker. I can't help but admire how selective the senator is about certain statements. I hear about how good this is the European Court of Auditors, he's okay, but already, for example. The Venice Commission is a be. You choose Only what suits you. And which is consistent with your line, and you are not guided by the good of the country. That's what I think. You're talking about making the institutions as political as possible, and you've politicized the institutions in the country as you've never been before. So this is hypocrisy. It's really cosmic. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I'd like to tell you a story. There's been a lot of arguments here. I'll use history, my history. In 2002, when Poland was not yet a member of the European Union, I became president of a city at the western border of our country. 2002: dirt, fear, poverty, 42% unemployment, empty streets, sad people. That's what 2002. In my town, 300 garden dwarf plants were established. I don't know if you know such red people standing at the borders. People were saving themselves from any kind of work, looking for any chance to survive to feed their children. It was 2002. [[SLD governments.]] The collapse of large industrial plants, the fall of companies. At that time, the mother did not have anything to feed her children for. I will not forget for the rest of my life, when women came to me, crying, begging that an entrepreneur, then a Polish entrepreneur, would not cut their salary because they received 500 PLN per hand. It was 2002. Then we dreamed that this European Union, which was far away for us and which was just a dream, would come to us. I don't know if you remember, because it's easy for us to forget, but then there were pre-accession measures, there were Phare CBCs and many others. New Salt, my city, was just in the third frontier zone and we felt a little hurt because counties or cities like Słubice, Kostrzyn or Gubin reached for that money. Europe was just helping us. That's when we got that money back and forth. Then they pulled us out of this horror and this tragedy, this drama we've been through. That was the world back then. It wasn't that long ago. At the time, this European Union was a dream for us. We dreamed of her. We were going to be friends abroad and looking at those quiet Germans who were walking around, our friends, I immediately mark. I'm talking about it because I hear a lot about something like the German option here. I can't understand it. These are our friends, they're not our enemies. Recently I have also observed such rhetoric, an attempt to convince Poles that we are a proud nation. Yes, we are a proud nation, but we are not the only proud nation. The proud nations are the Romanians, the Czechs, the Bulgarians, and the proud nations. We're being told that we're a chosen nation. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not a chosen nation. The European Union has helped us, has reached out to us, and we are now trying to turn our backs on the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand that the government representing the nation that spilled blood for freedom and democracy today is governed by the rule of law. I don't get it. I can't understand it. If we put the future of Poland at one stake, the funds for which local governments are waiting, the funds for the investments started... We are waiting for further tranches of money that will allow us to catch up with this Europe, and maybe someday, if the country is normal. Poles are waiting for this budget, local governments are waiting. I cannot understand why we, this proud Polish nation, are happy to lose 25:2. Perhaps Mr. Czerwinski, the senator will explain to me your name. As it is, the Czechs, Romanians, Bulgarians, Slovaks understand that the community is a game on the team that when we enter the European Union, we have taken over certain principles, and one of the fundamental principles is the rule of law. And at the end of the day, that's the case, that's the last sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of Polish local governments, cities and villages, thousands of Poles, especially those older ones who remember pre-Union Poland: do not do this to us, do not back us up. We don't want to go back to the past, we don't want to go back to what happened. The European Union has given us a huge opportunity to develop, so today let us not lose 25:2. Poles will not understand why you are putting our country back in the past. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u94	Thank you very much. Please take the floor... [[Voice from the room: 26:1.]] ...Senator Lydia Staron, remotely. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, can you hear me?]] You can hear the senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u95	Good, 'cause I didn't hear it. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that supporting the Council of Ministers in negotiations on the budget of the European Union is a duty of every Polish parliamentarian. This is not about one or another budget, it is not just about money, it is about the principles on which the European Union is built, and above all about respect for the Treaty, and thus the law. False information is circulating in public space: allegedly Poland demands permission to break the law. Nothing more wrong. Anyone who knows the Treaty's provisions, regardless of political views, knows that in terms of budget negotiations, the right lies on the side of the Polish authorities. Poland opposes the adoption of a mechanism linking the payment of EU funds to the fulfilment of the so-called criteria. The rule of law, understood as concrete ideological, political and not respect for the law, I stress respect for the law. This mechanism is included in the draft EU regulation. The project refers to the possibility of taking measures in the event of risk "Yes, the risks "of breach of the rule of law, with the rule of law meaning the values set out in Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, i.e. respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, etc., etc. No one is questioning that these values, these principles should be respected by Poland. However, the point is that the primary law of the European Union sets out in detail the procedure for ensuring compliance by Member States with these values. Every lawyer knows that procedure is extremely important. The procedure ensures that there will be no abuse in the application of the law, which sometimes occurs. In this case, it is about not imposing foreign cultural patterns on us under the motto of democracy or equality, e.g. the right to abortion on request, the right to adoption of children by homosexual couples, the number of refugees or others. Such slogans as democracy, equality or human rights are understood in a completely different way, depending on beliefs. Some believe that human rights are the right to terminate pregnancy in any case and at any time, e.g. in the ninth month, i.e. the so-called. abortion on request. For us Poles, for most of our society, the law so understood does not exist. There's our Polish constitution. According to Poles, there is no such thing as the right to adopt children by homosexual couples. Unfortunately, the decision-makers in Brussels have a completely different opinion on this subject and in the future they are most likely to find that the lack of adoption of children by homosexual couples violates human rights, as well as the principle of equality and non-discrimination. The consequence of this will be that Brussels stated that Poland is not a country What's that? I'm a law-abiding man. This is the kind of power that the Brussels decision-makers wish to be granted in the framework of the draft EU regulation. The granting of such powers to Brussels is contrary to our state. We will lose sovereignty in very important areas for millions of Poles, in such important matters as raising children. However, the most important and important thing is that such a regulation would be incompatible with Union law, with the procedure already mentioned, which is also a key element of EU law. For this reason alone, the government should receive broad support from Polish parliamentarians, regardless of political options. Let's reach the treaty. Art. The 7th Treaty on European Union provides for the possibility of suspending a Member State in the rights arising from the Treaties by means of a political decision taken at the level of Heads of State or Government, namely at the level of the European Council. However, this requires unanimity. In the absence of unanimity You cannot be deprived of your rights under Union law. The second procedure is the possibility of bringing the case before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is the Commission's power. The Court shall then decide whether or not there has been a breach of Union law. This is provided for in Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In other words, only those two bodies, the Court of Justice and the European Council, can say unanimously that the Member State concerned is illegal Not officials, not officials. It is therefore unacceptable to grant the EU Regulation to other authorities the right to decide whether or not the State is governed by law. That's not enough. They're gonna decide to block the payout just on this pretext. So, what is it? The suspension of the State in the rights of a member. Such a regulation would break the Treaties. Brussels officials in the draft regulation refer to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. What does this recipe say? Financial rules, liability of financial actors, and therefore prevention of fraud, embezzlement, not the right to impose on Member States the right to define family, human rights. It is a huge abuse to refer to this provision in order to introduce regulations that could be used to impose the law on Poland. Whether it's about abortion on demand or the number of refugees, etc., etc. And then it is that regardless of whether the Polish society wants it or not, that is, the decision is in the hands of Brussels. To sum up, the Brussels elite's draft regulation is not only against the law, but can also lead to a reduction in Poland's sovereignty. And right now, veto seems to be the only sensible measure, especially since veto is our law, provided for by EU legislation, and we can use it to protect our interests whenever we feel it is appropriate. It is therefore not true, as some political environments claim, that this is the destruction of the Union. Defending your own interests, using legal means, cannot be regarded as morally unacceptable. This is the foundation of the true rule of law. And as for the budget commission, this is it. the so-called. the atomic option, and for this reason, it seems to me that no one in Brussels takes it seriously, because there will probably be some kind of agreement or agreement... All the more so that it doesn't pay off, because it is associated with a large number of unknowns. At the end of this year, the Multiannual Financial Framework is also ending, and in the opinion of some experts, the rules on the budget allocation could be applied if it were only for the adoption of the budget for the following year, but within the same multiannual perspective. This is where the conversations are going... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Dear Senator...]] I'm finishing up. I'm trying really fast. In other words, if the German Presidency does not withdraw from its illegal proposal for a new regulation, it may lead to such a situation that there will be no financial framework at the beginning of the new year. The Germans themselves will lose most of it. Suffice it to say that if the German position is now dissatisfied in Germany itself and the press there I've even read about it today. There's no doubt... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Dear Senator, please...]] Okay, that's different... Okay, I'm done, but I'm gonna need five more minutes. Okay? [[Voice from the room: no, three minutes.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: 3 minutes because you've already used 2. Three more minutes.]] All right. Then I'll ask for three more minutes. Okay? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] Thank you very much. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, but will you use these three minutes now?]] Yes. And then I'm not gonna do it again... Good. I'm gonna go. It is enough to say that the German position is already dissatisfied. I was talking about the press there, who's writing about it right now. Berlin's relentless attitude will not hurt so much Poland The funds for the projects are already operational, they are also for farmers, and they are guaranteed by the Germans themselves in the first place. Why? For other EU countries, it will become clear that Germany is willing to deprive other Member States of EU funds for its illegal proposals and thus to harm those countries. It all arouses the worst historical association, connected with distant times. Therefore, the Polish position saves the European Union, the treaties and the entire legal order of the Union. It is Poland that seeks to ensure the rule of law in the Union, and Germany and those who support the introduction of illegal rules They are instrumental in further erosion of the European Union. Despite numerous legitimate reservations about the government's national policy on this issue, the Council of Ministers should receive support from all political forces in the country. Today it is about the interests of Poland. That is why I will, of course, vote against this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I speak of the resolution itself, I would like to point out the procedure for its procedure. Once again, we received a draft resolution for the joint committee meeting three hours before the meeting began. The discussion set in a limited time limit due to this short time was closed earlier. We see that there are two standards here in the Senate. Depending on whether the draft resolution is submitted by the Senator of the Law and Justice Club or by the ruling majority. A good example is the resolution proposed by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, who, after nearly a year in the current sitting... Work on it continues to be postponed in time, you are already asking for an opinion in principle. And the current resolution is taken from day to day, from hour to hour. As far as the content of this resolution is concerned, many substantive comments have already been made here. On the one hand, it is full of contradictions, and on the other hand it is written unacceptable, in my opinion, language and disallows the negotiating position of the Polish government. On the one hand, you are accusing the loss of billions of EU funds by our country as part of the negotiated funds from the European Union budget in a new financial perspective, and on the other hand, yesterday, you were just talking about the poor resources negotiated by the government in this budget. On the one hand, you are talking about the alleged concern for these billions from the EU budget, and on the other hand you are criticizing the government for its tough stance on the introduction of a subjective mechanism for linking the rule of law with the payment of this money from the EU budget, namely, a mechanism which, in the subjective assessment of the European Commission, can take away this money from us. Today, as an opposition, you claim that the budget veto is so dangerous, and this is for your governments, when Janusz Lewandowski was the head of the budget committee, in 2010, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands threatened the veto. Great Britain has also threatened the veto of the budget, many times. Did something happen to anyone about that? No, it's just that the budget has been adjusted, that is, the countries that have called for some changes, through the threat of a veto, they have achieved their goals. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I fully support the government's position. We have the right to demand that the European Union should not be a Union of double standards, that it should be a Union of equals and not a Union of equals and equals. We should not accept discretionary mechanisms that are based on arbitrary and politically motivated criteria. Blocking EU funds is a clear violation of the Treaties. In my opinion, the proposed resolution agrees with the government's negotiating position and has nothing to do with the Polish state's right, which is why I ask for its rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. As a result of what you said, I have two things to correct. Firstly, I did not see any time limits being applied in this debate because of the political option. There's no such thing. The time limits are laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and all senators have the same time limits. Secondly, regarding Senator Czerwinski's resolution, we waited, the Senate was waiting I don't know if it sounded like it, but it was said today. A few months for the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So it's not because the Senate's tardiness, it's because of other circumstances... That was explained. [[May I?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u99	One sentence, Mrs. Marshal, because there's been some inaccuracies. I was not talking about the debate in the Senate in my turn, I was talking about the debate at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Legislative Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u100	You're welcome, Senator Bang... Mr. Senator Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u101	We need to clear this up, Senator, so there's no doubt. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union held a long, 2-hour discussion yesterday on these three legal acts. The Minister for European Affairs has been invited to this discussion, however it may be. The Minister confirmed his presence two weeks ago, and yesterday, in an appropriate letter, he told me that, unfortunately, due to other responsibilities, he could not attend the meeting. We were convinced for two weeks that the Minister would be with us. Well, that's too bad. We've been waiting for the government's position on this. That's it. [[Voice from the room: But...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u102	I'm sorry, I don't allow polemics, it's out-of-regulation polemics. Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u103	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Today Europeans ask: quo vadis, Polonia? Where are you going, Polish? And I think many Europeans ask: why are you Poles blocking support for the whole continent, support so needed after the crisis that is just coming? Many specialists, economists, say that this will be one of the biggest crises that the world and Europe will ever face. The budget of the European Union for 20212027, the Fund for Reconstruction for the fight against the Coronary, is EUR 750 billion. And why are you Poles blocking aid for Italy, which is very affected by the epidemic? Why are you blocking aid for Spain and other countries affected by the pandemic? Why are you finally blocking help for your own citizens? And this is where there's been a violation, Mr. Senator. The EUR 57 billion from the Reconstruction Fund is not for loans. Of these 23 billion euros are for grants and 34 billion are for loans. This is the structure of this aid, which will be for Poland... is intended for Poland. [[Where's the money coming from, if it's not from the loans?]] In Poland, individual sectors are dying. Entrepreneurs write... [[Senator, don't answer such questions.]] But I'm not answering, I'm going on. [[I see. And your senator, please...]] Entrepreneurs write desperate e-mails to parliamentarians, ask for support. The next item on the agenda for this meeting will be the taxation of parts of Polish entrepreneurs, because from somewhere it is necessary to get this money. Block the money for doctors by not publishing the bill. Why? Well, I've read some interviews about it. That's why you're doing this because there's just no money. Nurses in some health care units talk about moving away from beds of patients, including those with COVID. They're all gonna die, stop asking, the nurses are gonna walk away from the patients' beds, the doctors are gonna walk away or they're gonna get sick. And then what? How are we gonna handle this? How are we gonna manage without that money without that help? No one forced us into the European Union. When we went in there, and I remember very well these times, we said, said, everyone said that we were going back to Europe, part of which we were always, only because of adverse historical circumstances, because of the intertwining of various unfortunate events we were outside the Community. There was joy, there was satisfaction. We have joined the European Union for the values contained in the article. 2 Treaty: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law, respect for human rights, minority rights. Many of you are younger than me, even many years old, and may not remember it, but I remember this enthusiasm. I even remember the enthusiasm that accompanied me when I didn't have to wait at the border anymore. A lot of young people don't remember that. A community based on pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity, equality between women and men... Which of these values are bothering you? [[Voice from the room: All of them.]] Why would you do that? Why? I've got some answers, and these answers have given me the last few years. In order to unpunished the justice system and not to interfere with it, so that public funds can be embezzled against bad masks without punishment, on spectrum respirators. Yes, I would like to ask: has prosecutorial proceedings been initiated in this case? Because reports only indicate that civil proceedings were initiated in the case of PLN 70 million not allocated to the state budget. Perhaps it's also done to beat people on the streets with impunity. This includes journalists and parliamentarians, as it turns out. Or just to put people in jail with impunity? Also the opposition, as we have heard from the Seym Court. Because only in such situations does the rule of law stand in the way. Rule of law, I repeat. After all, someone who respects the law has nothing to fear. Only because we are a civilized country, we are to get funds, money for investments, for fighting smog, for preventing energy poverty and digital exclusion, for preventing inequalities, for supporting Polish farmers, for Polish entrepreneurs, for health care for which there is no money, for education, roads, railways. Are we gonna do this alone? A little history. On 5 June 1947, General Marshall announced that he would put the European economy back on its feet. Everyone was very happy, but one man in Moscow, Stalin, said: no, the countries of the Eastern Block will not benefit from it. Between 1948 and 1852, 13 billion dollars at that time, i.e. today, there would be about 130 billion of dollars in the European economy, of course outside Poland, outside the countries of this block. We could've gotten about $500 million out of this. We didn't make up for these delays until later. We didn't make up much for these delays until after 1989. I wonder why we're doing the same thing today. History is mean, it likes to repeat itself, only that a wise nation learns from history and doesn't do the same again, doesn't make the same mistakes. I'm hearing words here that I can't deal with. All this rule of law, so-called. The rule of law has to be admitted that for a lawyer it is devastating I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. How can one even talk about those who are our fellow citizens from Europe, who, as Senator Tyszkiewicz has already said, are our friends? And it is not true that Poles are in favour of veto and lack of money. In such surveys, the most interesting thing is who is asking and what question, because one can ask such a question, which answer will be in line with the expectation. I am surprised that after this slogan, which basically became a meme in Europe, i.e. 27:1, still, when everyone around us says that the Polish government is wrong, the Polish government responds, everyone else is wrong. When all the lawyers from all over Europe say that Poland does not comply with the law, the Polish government says no, we do. It really only reminds me of a situation when a person gets drunk, so everyone around him tells him to go to bed and get sober, and he says wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong. I have also heard here saying that there are no people in the European institutions by choice, that there are only people in the European Parliament by choice. Yeah, he was chasing the pot to the kettle. Well, there are open competitions here, there are transparent rules of choice in offices, there is a professional civil service and everything is lege artis. How can we accuse someone of anything when we break the basic principles of recruitment to both the Treasury companies and the authorities. We've eliminated... I'm talking about the country, but you've eliminated the civilian service and the professional diplomatic service. Your minister, when he left, said that there were no more professional diplomats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I'm asking you what's going on here. European solidarity... Besides, solidarity is such a Polish word. I look at Marshal Borusewicz because, as I say, solidarity, it reminds me of, among other things. with Marshal Borusewicz. It is a beautiful Polish word, but there is also such a thing as European solidarity. It's also a very difficult word. European solidarity makes us think not only of ourselves but also of others, it tells us to be guided by the interests of the community. And think about one thing. Once we veto this budget, once we've made our enemies in this Europe... After all, most of these countries, perhaps all of them, are NATO members. What if there's a time like this? Well, it can happen because we're living in restless times. When will it be necessary to put yourself at risk for Poland, for Warsaw? Who's coming here? Spaniards? [[Voice from the room: Hungarians.]] Italians? How about the Americans? No, neither will the Americans because the President can't even accept the election results in the United States, he can't congratulate the President-elect Joseph Biden. As the Foreign Minister explained yesterday, we are looking forward to the development of the situation in the United States. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. [[Thank you very much for your words about me, but I have to tell you...]] Finally, I would like to ask you to consider who, in the name of this solidarity, will come here to die for Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u105	Hello? Hello? Am I audible? [[Yeah, absolutely.]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Listening to this whole discussion, I feel obliged to speak as well. I am convinced that the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Poland concerning the budget of the European Union are going in the right direction. The Government of the Republic of Poland does not question the budget of the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Poland wants the negotiated budget of the European Union to be actually implemented and not dependent on any additional, unclear, undefined criteria concerning so-called. The rule of law. I would like to remind you here that having a Community budget is based on 8 main principles, namely accuracy, universality, annual budget, balance, clarification, application of the unit of account, sound financial management, transparency. There's no word on the rule of law. I think it's worth remembering here, in all this discussion, the words of Donald Tusk. Tusk crushed the idea of binding the budget to the rule of law. I would consider this to be a very risky step in the wrong direction. In mid-2018, I spoke about the link between EU funds and Donald Tusk's rule of law. He pointed out that money from Brussels should not be subject to purely political criteria. He pointed out that such solutions were a risky step, a step in the wrong direction. It would not be good for Europe to mix these two cleanings. The money that we spend on different issues in the budget should not be subject to criteria, I would say, purely political. Donald Tusk as Prime Minister did not exclude the use of veto and emphasized that he was ready for it. He claimed that Poland as a full member of the Union has the possibility to block the budget as well as other Community countries. He said that we would also use and use the tools that the Treaty of Lisbon gives us, if necessary, even at the next European Council. To conclude, I would like to say this: I believe that this draft resolution in the proposed wording should be rejected by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I believe that the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Poland regarding the adoption of the budget of the European Union will strengthen Poland's position in the European Union. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Two minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u107	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask for some time to correct your words first. I didn't come forward before because you were blocking the correction. This concerns the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich and its procedure. First, there was an attempt to hide the lack of government position. Although I quoted two positions of government, one from March, the other from September And now, today, there is an attempt to block this draft resolution as if the position of representatives of Polonia... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] That's still a correction. I would like to inform you that during the work of the committee there was a representative of Polish society, vice president of the Polish Union in Germany, Anna Wawrzyszko, and she accepted the text of this proposed resolution. When it comes to dividing Polonia, and perhaps introducing another organization into Germany, so that the Polish Union in Germany would not be recognized as it has been for a long time, it is an effective policy, but I would warn against it. So much for corrigendum. And now these two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the topic... In fact, it is the European Union regulation, the Council Regulation and Parliament that are the subject. Well, this regulation has several features in our Parliament that will not pass. The first is that the secondary law, the lower order, is trying to change the primary law, the treaties. It's as if we've been changing the constitution by a ministry or by a minister or by the Council of Ministers. Well, yes, ma'am, it can't be. This isn't a democracy, really. Second ground of appeal this is unacceptable mixing with each other in various areas, in this case financial issues and worldview issues, because that's what this is all about. Poland will be instructed, pressured around the world so that it can receive money Which, by the way, it will deposit in advance because it will pay a premium or borrow, together with the rest of the EU countries. The third point is the rule of law. However, this criterion is circumstantial, because if we are only talking about the rule of law as a way or discipline when spending EU funds, then yes, yes, we should control it, but this rule of law cannot be like a bottomless bag into which you can, practically speaking, put every piece of legislation or every area of law. And the last point is that this is still the rule of law. It was written by the European Court of Auditors that it would be decided... I mean, a preliminary project, but I think the final one also says this: how this rule of law criterion has been violated is decided by the European Commission. Of course, it listens to the clarification of the State concerned, but then the decision is really taken and the Commission executes it, i.e. it initiates the procedure and then enforces it, so it stops any payments. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It's been two minutes, Mr. Senator...]] Yes. I wonder, what do you need it for? Why are you interfering with the Polish government in obtaining the right funds that are necessary for us and really reducing the negotiating potential... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] ...Polish government? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr Senator!]] I don't know what this is about. Maybe it'll work out... Mr. Senator! ...whose business you represent.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u108	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'd like to... I am very pleased that the Senate majority so appreciates the effort and negotiating efficiency of the Polish government. This negotiated budget, as well as the Fund for Reconstruction, indeed, seems to be a good budget, but it could have been even better if it had not been for the so-called group. European stinglers, a group of countries that have effectively cut the budget. These are Denmark, Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Austria. The link between the rule of law and the payment of funds without establishing clear criteria for the assessment of the rule of law is, after all, an attempt at unlawful and non-orthodox, discretionary deprivation of funds by Member States. This is also what the European Court of Auditors has said. Here, of course, Senator Czerwiński described this opinion very well. 'Cause in fact, that's an 80% opinion. It's negative. And it should not be trivialized, as he did, unfortunately, Senator Kwiatkowski. I appeal, Mr Senator, to treat with due respect the documents of the European institutions, all the more so because we respect the equivalent of the ECO in Poland, or NIK. We respectfully approach these analyses and inspection reports of NIK. You as former CEO of NIK, I think, will agree with me on this. Nor is it that the Senators of the United Right quote the opinions of a single member of the European Court of Auditors. This is certainly not the opinion of one member, one person. The opinion was signed by President Lehne, but the rapporteur of that opinion before the tribunal was the Belgian Auditor, sorry, but I do not remember her name. And the ECA is a collegial institution and this opinion has been adopted in a collegial manner. And I think it's important to treat her with respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u110	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. Five minutes, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll admit you've provoked me to make another speech. I, in the first part of my speech, asked you to .. as often as it is. you are suggesting that we read with understanding the various texts of this principle for ourselves. In all the speeches of the Law and Justice politicians, the United Right had half-truths, changes in decisions, and misinformation. I'd have to spend an hour here to list all the irregularities you've handed over to our constituents. I'm just gonna go back to a few. The first point is that it is not the European Commission that decides whether or not to hold back EU funds. This decision shall be taken by the Council, taken by the Member States, not by the Commission. Stop talking such nonsense to Poles! Second thing: what you say about the rule of law. I ask that you read the documents and do not tell Poles that for the first time the European Union introduces the principle of conditionality in the use of European funds. Every financial framework, even when we received pre-accession funds, was subject to the principle of conditionality, was governed by the rule of law. And I will only mention some of the elements that concern this rule of law. It is intended primarily to cover the legality of the use of funds, transparency, accountability, democracy and pluralism in their division. What do you mean? You don't want to give this money to the Poles? So where are they supposed to be transferred? In the pockets of your families, your friends, your friends? This is an outrage! Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Not nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u112	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u113	Thank you very much. I'm basically just an explanation. The point is that those who use the poll • and in this room have such references to the poll presented a few weeks ago • know whose poll they use, whose poll they use. Well, at the moment when the announcement of the veto was presented to the Polish public, a poll prepared by the United Surveys agency appeared. Let's remember this name: United Surveys. This is a poll that says 57% Poles support veto. Fortunately, there are researchers in Poland who follow fake news and research the sources of these fake news. It turns out that the United Surveys agency is, firstly, a company registered in Estonia, secondly, a company that has a website, but there are no additional channels of contact other than the possibility of writing emails, there are no phone numbers, there are no references that are necessary today to be taken seriously. There's no information on the experts, the co-workers he's using. All indications are that this is a virtual office. Grzegorz Rzeczkowski, the author of a great book entitled: It's an alien alphabet. How Kremlin and PiS people played wiretapping, which deals with these matters professionally. Well, this company asked its respondents, if at all it asked the following question: "Would it be possible for Poland to veto the EU budget if this was to come into force?'. Let's take a look, ladies and gentlemen, at the content of this question. This is a question about veto, but in the event that EU money for Poland is stopped. Nobody here talks about stopping EU money for Poland, but here is the... The government's position is to veto the budget because it is impossible to veto it due to the method of adopting a regulation binding the payment of funds with the rule of law. This question was put in such a way that possible respondents would have a chance to answer the question. Well, who would answer a question like that? Well, the agency whose origin is questionable is also questionable the tools it uses, as I said earlier, is asking a question whose content suggests a positive answer. And this is immediately included as an argument in support of the position of the government of the Republic of Poland to adopt a veto on the budget. This is not a coincidence, my dears. There are no cases in these situations. The data manipulation I'm talking about right now is typical of this government... I don't want to extend the scope of our deliberations, so let's just say it's about manipulation. You're manipulating the same... The government is also manipulating public opinion by trying to convince it to be so-called. sovereignty argument, which with this subject He's got absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u114	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u115	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think this is the end of our very important debate in the Senate, because the moment is crucial. This veto is harmful. I am firmly convinced that this debate has also shown this. In 3 dimensions. It does not, of course, increase the financial assets of the Republic of Poland necessary to combat the crisis caused by the pandemic, but can potentially significantly weaken them. As a result, money may be taken, which is needed by Polish companies, Polish farmers, Polish health institutions, Polish schools to survive these terrible months and unfortunately already perhaps years of crisis, which caused pandemics. So there's no mention of a substance veto. That's one thing. Secondly, of course, this veto is also directed against the rule of law. This veto is to break the rule of the rule of law, as the PiS government has been doing, the power of the PiS for 5 years. And the rule of law, including independent courts, the division of power, is good for Poles and Poles, for citizens of the Republic of Poland. It is not only enshrined in the Constitution and in the European Treaties, but it is simply objectively good, because when courts are independent, it is better for the citizen than when they are subject to a ruling party. Finally, thirdly, this veto seriously weakens Poland's position in the European Union, once again we are alone or almost alone with an uncertain pseudosociate from Hungary, and every weakening of Poland's position in the European Union is objectively bad for the national interest. So we know beyond any doubt that this veto is not in the Polish national interest. It is in some national interest, in the national interest of our great neighbour from the East, Russia and in the interest of his present aggressive environment of geopolitical power. Aggressive not only in the territory of the former Soviet Union, because, as we know, Putin influenced elections and political decisions throughout Europe in this region. Putin has never accepted that Central Europe, including Poland in particular, the largest Central European country, is a fully-fledged and influential member of the Western community, a member of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. This decision therefore implements whether it helps to implement the 2 fundamental principles of Russian policy on the European continent: firstly, to remove, separate, weaken the ties of Central Europe and Poland with the west of the continent, and secondly, to weaken, loosen ties in the European Union in general. That's the decision. It's crazy, because you can't call it anything else, it's an outrage that has to be stopped. I am sure that today the Senate of the Brightest Republic of Poland, adopting this resolution, will take the first step towards defending the national interest of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u116	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Halina Bieda made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Andrzej Pajak, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and during the speech to the minutes of Senator Alexander Szwed. The discussion is closed. I propose that the committees should have a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. I'm about to announce an hour's break, which is until 5:15 p.m. I immediately inform you that five minutes after the announcement of the break there will be a meeting of the Senior Convention. Listen to the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u117	Message. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the examination of the proposals submitted during the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the budget of the European Union will take place in rooms 176 and 179 half hours after the announcement of the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u118	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 14 to 17 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u119	We return to the consideration of the punt of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the budget of the European Union. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 270 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Today, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have gathered to consider the amendments, first of all the proposal to reject the draft resolution. This proposal was not supported by the majority of the members of the two committees. As regards the vote on the amendments, amendments 2, 5 and 6 were supported and amendments 1, 3 and 4 were not supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u121	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by pleno titulo senators: Aleksander Szwed, Marek Pęk, Jan Maria Jackowski, Jerzy Czerwiński, Andrzej Pajak, Zdzisław Pupa, Bogdan Zdrojewski and Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka. Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to appeal to the High House for our amendment to the amendment tabled by Senator Czerwinski, Senator Pupa, Senator Spider and myself. The amendment of the title and the amendment of the content of the resolution so as to be one-sounding with a resolution of the Sejm, however, received the support of the High House. It would be a good signal that the opposition, and the majority of the government on fundamental issues for the Polish national interest, speak with one voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the draft provisions. After voting on the amendments tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety, print No 270 S, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the motion of the Senators of Law and Justice to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 50 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In the face of rejection, we are voting on the amendments tabled. We are voting on these amendments. Attention, amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 4, 5 and 6. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1 and 3, the senators Jerzy Czerwiński, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Pajak and Zdzisław Pupa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 50 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 2 is Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's amendment. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za, za.]] You're all for it, you're all for it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 91 were in favour, 5 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 4 is the amendment of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 5 is the amendment of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 49 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was not accepted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 6, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 94 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. Now to vote on the whole resolution. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The title of the resolution after the changes is... I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to adopt the negotiated draft budget of the European Union. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: And that's it?]] And that's it. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to adopt the negotiated draft budget of the European Union. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 248 and the committee's report In print No 248 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting on 18 and 24 November considered the Law on the amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No 248, also called the Law on the so-called Law. Estonian CIT. The basic assumption of this law presented by the Ministry of Finance is to enable investment to be financed by entities belonging to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, in particular those which have so far had difficulties in obtaining such funding. The way to enable this fund-raising for investment is to decide that these companies will be able to join the so-called. flat-rate payment of CIT. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] During the meeting of the committee, representatives of the Ministry of Finance enumerated the conditions, the criteria to be met in order to benefit from such a legal solution. Allow me to present these criteria and these conditions, because they must all be met together. This is so important that it will be a specific group of companies that will be able to proceed to such a solution and benefit from such a tax solution. First of all, the revenues of the company must not exceed or exceed PLN 100 million; the company's shareholders are only natural persons; the company does not have any shares in other entities; the company employs at least 3 persons excluding shareholders; passive revenues do not exceed operating revenues; the company is another criterion, I remind you that they must be treated together with investment expenditure. I stress that all these indications concerning a given company must be taken together. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The general rule of this bill is that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, you can't hear anything. Everybody's talking.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. If anyone wants to talk, please come into the hallway.]] The general rule in these provisions states that the flat-rate tax rate will also depend on investment expenditure. During the committee meeting, we took note of the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau and the amendments tabled by the senators. In total, these amendments were 40. During the discussion, the senators also raised the question that the project does not cover all economic operators operating in our country. We talked about the exclusion of entities or persons operating in a single person business. They are not covered or will not be covered by such a possibility by limited-liability, limited-liability companies. Such a solution will not be available to cooperatives next year. These are important things to pay attention to. One of the elements that was raised and which during the discussion The fact that the Ministry of Finance stated that, in fact, some of the preferences we are discussing for the conduct of business from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance concern companies, i.e. limited liability companies or public limited liability companies. Those words that sounded have caused our reaction, because we remember that the number of economic operators in our country is actually one-man business activity. The omission of such activities in this law resulted in a discussion at a committee meeting. I was just talking about the amendments. I would like to say that these were amendments, on the one hand, resulting from legislative remarks and, on the other hand, the substantive amendments which were just saying that this law should also cover limited-liability companies, so that the investment fund referred to in this Act would be a fund that could also be used by cooperatives. In conclusion, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to present a few more facts about this bill, the records that exist there. Namely, if any of the eligible entities wish to benefit from the benefit of this law, they will be able to do so voluntarily, i.e. there will still be a question of the choice of the method of taxation. That's one thing. Secondly, it is important that investment expenditure must be at least 15% during a period of 2 years following each other. The third point, which was also underlined, is that the Act is a pilot. It will be presented for the next 4 years, starting next year, i.e. from 2021, but with the possibility of renewal. That's another line. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Finance, the resolution of this law will apply to approximately 200 thousand entities which conduct business activities of the type covered by this law. The cost for the state budget is about PLN 5 billion 600 million. The Commission recommends the adoption of an amendment act. During the vote, all members of the budget committee were in favour of this solution. I would like to point out that a minority request has also been made.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a request for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Together with Mr Bierecki, President Bierecki, we have tabled a minority proposal because there has been no amendment, which is marked by number 8 in the Commission's amendments. This is an amendment which is more precise and generally pursues the purpose of this law. There was a difference between the Senate Legislative Office and the Ministry of Finance's lawyers. The Senate's Legislative Office claimed that Amendment 8, tabled by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, was simply pointless, unnecessary, and the Ministry of Finance claimed that, for security reasons, it would be good to clarify the rules if this amendment were. From what Mr Kleina has determined, it was clear that the lawyers were still going to get along. Because it was so strict. legal dispute between the lawyers of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal Office. To tell you the truth, I don't know if this deal has come about. And one comment to my previous speaker, who was reporting... I do not want to repeat what he said here, but one point is very important, very important: this law concerns companies governed by commercial law, companies governed by the law. and public limited liability companies. It cannot include individuals engaged in economic activities at all, because they do not pay CIT, and here we are talking about CIT. And actually... So I don't know why my predecessor raised this issue at all. She just doesn't apply to this area of operation... It's not that form of taxation. Persons conducting individual business activities under their name or in any other form pay other forms of tax. But in fact, this law does not apply to two types of economic operators which, in theory, could be affected, namely cooperatives and limited companies. Here representatives of the Ministry of Finance have stated that we are introducing, so to speak, this solution and we will see how it functions. And this is very beneficial for entrepreneurs, the so-called. Estonian CIT. To sum up, they do not pay CIT tax, i.e. tax, which is paid by companies operating in the form of companies operating in the form of o.o. and public limited liability companies, until they transfer those profits out of the company. So we increase the liquidity of companies during this difficult covid period, when there may actually be some kind of imbalance there. The Minister said that experts are working to further cover these CIT cooperatives. During the work in the Senate there were still some analyses regarding whether to expand it, but there was not yet the approval of the Ministry of Finance to expand it. That's it, just to complete my previous speaker's statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u127	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? Mr. Senator Dowhan, then Mr. Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u128	Thank you. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur: has the problem of tax fairness been raised, the equality of all economic operators? That's one thing. And secondly, how does this fit into the Constitution on equal taxation? 'Cause I don't quite understand what that's supposed to do if only a narrow group is covered by that possibility. What are the benefits of the tax, and why does it not include all taxpayers who should be equal in doing business, whether in the form of a public limited liability company or as a natural person? Well, it's just an organizational thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u129	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u130	In the committee's report, a partial answer to the senator's question seems to have come up. I raised the question, too. Senator Frost was just saying that we're only talking about CIT. Of course, we, as members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, understood this and that is why we raised this issue. Yeah, so it's called. The Estonian solution is actually limited to a group of these 200 000 potential recipients of this solution. We talked about the fact that we do not treat this in the context of equal treatment of economic operators, and I think that in my speech has partially sounded. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented this as a formula for a pilot approach to the topic. There was also talk of limited-liability companies and proposed solutions or discussions with cooperatives about how this solution should also be included. These threads sounded, yes, but we're not the ones to whom this question is addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u131	Senator Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... I will address this question to the Senator of the majority. The Senator rapporteur for minorities has already said why single-member economic activities are not covered by this, but I would like to ask whether at the committee's meeting there was any mention of what support medium-sized enterprises would receive by entering the Estonian system. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u133	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u134	At the beginning of my report I said that this legal solution will largely be addressed to those entities which operate as public limited liability companies or limited liability companies. This does not apply, as the Estonian example shows, to large companies, it is addressed to micro and small enterprises. I think that's also the answer to your question. It is also a bit so, Mr Senator, that this solution to be applied will actually work in such a way that CIT, which will pay individual entities, flat-rate CIT of 15, 25% , will also be largely dependent on investment expenditure I've been talking about that, too. The companies that these companies will bear over the years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u135	Senator Swede, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there's something else I'd like to ask you. We have the Estonian system described in the explanatory memorandum. But did the committee's meeting mention what it looks like in other countries? Is there a system similar to the Estonian system in other countries? What does it look like in particular in the Member States of the European Union? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? If not, then I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u137	We were talking, too. I'm looking at my friends. We talked about German solutions, if I remember correctly, but the Estonian example was the leading one here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u138	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I've always been nervous about how things were changing, because these changes only cause extra employment, and I used to have to hire a second chief accountant. But I have a question about whether there has been such a discussion, Mr President, rapporteur, and whether the government, by making such a radical change in the rules of taxation for limited companies, takes into account the fact that... [[It's not that... it's not that bill.]] Isn't that the bill? [[The voice from the room: No, it's not that one.]] I'm sorry. [[I can answer, but then maybe...]] I have a second question about those 200,000 employees that... [[Voice from the room: Subjects.]] ...the things you talked about. Mostly they're young people. Was there a discussion on what safeguard mechanisms the government plans to introduce so that the beneficiaries of the amendments to the Act would not be only or almost exclusively wealthy foreign entities, owners... [[Voice from the hall: It's not the bill either.]] It wasn't in that... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know the next one's gonna be... [[I can answer that, but that's not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u140	No, no. These questions... [[There's gonna be another point in a minute, and then I'm gonna ask you a question.]] ...doesn't apply to this bill. I understand that this may be wrong, because the next bill also applies to taxes. Exactly. Exactly. I understand you'll come back to this at the next point. And now, Senator Ambrosik. [[I'll ask you questions at point three.]] Good. Senator Ambrosik. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is a question for Senator Mroza, and I would like to ask if it was about how these solutions have affected the economy of the country. Has there been economic growth, an increase in the scale of investment? How did consumption develop? What are the forecasts for Poland in the coming years after the introduction of this Estonian solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u142	And where's the senator rapporteur... [[But there was a question to...]] Oh, it's for your minority rapporteur, yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! We talked in a very general way about the positive effects of these solutions on companies in general. Yes? If things get better in companies, it'll be better in the economy. Such a detailed analysis of this impact was not presented. Today, when we introduce these solutions, I would say, we encourage companies to invest. Well, the price of not paying taxes or deferring the need to pay taxes is in the future the condition of investment. Yes? We want companies to invest and, at this difficult time when we have the COVID epidemic, to turn on the economy. So in this context it can be said that these are very pro-development measures. And as for how it works today... Well, it was, so to speak, the Estonian patent. We are probably the second country, except Estonia, which implements such solutions. Several countries, e.g. Georgia, if I recall correctly, has implemented solutions in this area... We're not 100%, of course. We used this Estonian CIT. As the Minister said, we want to see how this CIT, which is very beneficial for entrepreneurs, and therefore, which is beneficial for the economy... We want to encourage, we say: invest this money, then you won't have to pay the tax. So-called. Estonian CIT is much more favourable than the use of various types of investment discounts. This is a simpler, more effective solution. You won't have to make tax returns monthly, quarterly, annual, as Senator Komarnicki said, a little running out, referring to the next point. That's gonna make you not have to hire those double accountants, so to speak. The Minister's side of the story is out. I will repeat what the Minister said at the committee meeting. In Poland, only 20% of economic operators account for CIT themselves. In Estonia it is 60%. So we're simplifying this system so that Senator Komarnicki doesn't have to hire double accountants, or maybe... Well, I don't want to tell him to fire that accountant he has, because in other respects he might be useful. But I'm sure he won't have to hire additional accountants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u144	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u145	I have a question about the real benefits of someone applying this Estonian solution. Are these such significant differences in taxation, or is it just a partial freeze of the need to pay the tax? Well, one day that profit has to be paid. How does the Ministry encourage taxpayers to benefit from this? How did they figure it would cost $5 billion?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u146	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u147	I understand that's the question. also to the Minister at a later stage of the debate, in plenary. The general rule, let me remind you, is this. The CIT taxpayer who will want to take advantage of this solution, for the first 4 years, we are talking about piloting He'll have flat-rate CIT. Like I said, it's about 15%. And 25%. He must bear investment in order to meet the requirements of entry into this tax arrangement. For this reason he will not bear, I would say, the tax consequences from year to year, as Senator Frost also mentioned just now. The values that the senator is asking about right now will be... The answer to this question will only be possible after these four years, because no one can really predict it today. The Ministry of Finance estimated that these, let's call it, losses of the state budget during the first period of the CIT loss, I stress It's going to be 5.6 billion. That's the information we got.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u148	Thank you, rapporteur. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u149	I have a question for Senator Mr. Frost as rapporteur for the minority. Mr. Senator used such a phrase that Estonian CIT is very beneficial for entrepreneurs. Here is consent, but Polish solutions differ significantly from the Estonian original. So please indicate the differences.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u150	There you go, Senator rapporteur for the minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u151	Mr. Senator, this is a question for the Minister. The Minister, of course, signalled something at the committee meeting, but we did not analyse Estonian solutions. As for the idea, we agree. Well, we've applied some kind of hybrid solution here. These are not 100% solutions Estonian, though I wouldn't want to be here... I have not followed Estonian rules, but the principle is the same: no tax is paid in a given tax year if profits are not transferred. These details are probably very, very much, but this was not the subject of the meeting. We have not analysed this from such an angle that there are such solutions in Estonia, and our solutions are different. The idea is the same, albeit in detailed solutions, as the Minister indicated, there are certain differences. I wouldn't want to mislead you. I know some things, but not from the committee meeting. It's the Minister who's a tax lawyer, and I'm afraid I'm gonna twist something. I'm sure it's not 100% the same. Well, let me mention that in Estonia, however, this is more widely used. We have limited ourselves here to selected economic operators. There are some conditions that decide when to take advantage of it. Well, not every subject will be able to do that. Estonia went a little further, but this is a smaller country, and there's that, so to speak, easier. We want to see how this system works. My predecessor was talking about these... It's kind of an estimate, but it's not about how much it's gonna lose. Well, I could say this: it is about how much money will remain in the pockets of Polish business entities. That's how I'd put it, even though you can do it like a friend. The question is, do we want to say that the glass is half empty or half full? That money's just gonna stay in the companies. And the idea is to link it to the need for investment. Thank you. [[Thank you very much...]] We generally have a problem with investments, because Polish economic operators Well, let me put it this way. They have quite a lot of money in cash. I don't want to mention the name of the bank here, but lately I was doing something there and the bank's representative told me that today there are already negative interest rates for economic operators. Well, that's how much cash these companies keep. Of course, not every company does that, but those who have cash keep it in their accounts. So this is also some form of incentives for economic operators to invest, which are the flywheel of the economy. It's like an additional element, although investment is very important, very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u152	Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u153	I'm also here to see Senator Mroz. It's interesting what the senator said about that cash that suddenly appeared in the banks. We have known this for a long time and, above all, the Ministry of Finance knows it, which is perfectly aware of why it happened. Tax system in Poland and fiscal burden, which you have been introducing in the form of various taxes for several years And the hidden ones that we're already paying for everything. They make Polish entrepreneurs reluctant to invest, risk money. Well, mostly they have to give them back as tributes that you've introduced. So do you think that the actions that the State has taken in recent years, including those introduced in a narrow Estonian tax dimension, which should not exactly be called Estonian, because there are quite different solutions than ours... Yeah, they're a little bit alike. Is that right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u154	Senator, you have imposed such a thesis, which is actually false and general: that due to the introduction of some legal solutions that increase tax burdens, entrepreneurs do not want to invest. You were also a senator in your previous term, and you know that because they went through this room... Well, the whole concept of the development of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... There are a whole range of activities that we have been implementing over the last five years, making life easier for entrepreneurs in many different areas of operation. Whatever you're doing... I don't recall introducing any tax increases, but we've kept Donald Tusk's CIT raised... sorry, VAT. But remember, Mr. Senator, you're in business, you're the one who should remember. However, we have introduced a CIT reduction for economic operators. We have introduced a number of solutions that facilitate business activity. Of course, we introduced sealing solutions for the tax system, but we fought against the so-called. tax optimization in many different areas, and thanks to that we sealed this system. I don't recall, Mr. Senator, making some tax raise. If you recall, I would ask you very much to set an example... [[The solidarity tax recently...]] Yeah, but you know, the tax... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, but, Lord... No, no... But, Mr. Senator, the solidarity tax doesn't apply to economic operators at all, it's people who have some extremely high income... And it was about individuals who pay PIT, not CIT, so it was about something else. We are talking about economic operators today, so tell us where some tax burden has been increased for economic operators. [[This isn't a discussion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u155	Thank you. Yeah, that's it. This is not a discussion, so that, gentlemen, do not discuss. Thank you so much for the senator's response. Are there any more questions? There isn't. [[Voice from the hall: Now the government.]] Therefore, the senators can now report from a place that is no longer... [[Voice from the room: It was, it was.]] Oh, no. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on this bill, Deputy Minister Jan Sarnowski? No, thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thank you, no.]] But there will be questions, Minister, which is why I invite you to the podium. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u156	Minister, you have been complimented by your senator as an expert on the tax system. The Senate meetings have an educational value. The state at the conferences often used the wording that this project is a reflection of the Estonian project. I'll be talking about details later in the discussion, but I'd like to ask you... We're also being listened to by entrepreneurs. Please provide a comparison of the differences between the Polish CIT and the Estonian original.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u157	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u158	Today's proposal does not differ significantly from a solution that has been in operation for 20 years in Estonia. The practice of acting and clearing the tax is virtually identical between us and Estonia. This is due to the fact that the rules were also created in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of Estonia. What distinguishes the system that will be introduced in Poland from January next year, from the one that operates in Estonia, is its limitation only to small and medium-sized enterprises. And now, specifically, why we decided to take this step. To make sure there is no doubt: the Estonian system is a very, very beneficial solution, especially for small and medium-sized companies, because it helps them break the glass ceiling of lack of funding. In 2017, according to the OECD report, one third of Polish companies in this sector did not receive the necessary debt financing. Unfortunately, the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises have to invest on their own, using equity rather than debt capital. If I remember correctly, the debt capital only helps them finance their investment in 11%. And what does such funding mean? This means that the more money they have left in their accounts and the less they pay the tax, especially the smaller it will increase the volume of their investments. This is the effect that has been observed in Estonia. Immediately after the implementation of this link, in the early 2000s, the volume of investment in the small and medium-sized enterprises increased there by as much as 40% compared to how it grew in other countries in the region, comparable to Estonia. In Lithuania and Latvia. Like Polish companies, Estonian companies have already mapped those places where they will need new funds, while... And thanks to tax savings, this was achieved because there was again a cascade effect, namely not only that the tax savings could be spent on making investments, but also leaving more money at the cash register simply allowed companies to increase their lending capacity. So that these investments were also sufficiently larger. And fortunately, this trend has remained, until today, the rate of investment in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is higher than the EU average in Estonia. And definitely, definitely higher than in Poland. And now the question arises: why Poland decided to limit such a good system... [[Voice from the room: Excuse me. There's a request 'cause you can't hear too much, Minister 'cause it's more to the microphone...]] Of course. I'm sorry. Here the question arises: why did Poland decide to limit this system when it had such good results? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of our joint work with the Ministry of Finance of Estonia. Well, the Estonians told us that when they implemented their project, they encountered some problems. What we call the Estonian Bermuda triangle, and what was three very serious hits that the Estonians had to deal with. Firstly, it was the impact of the reform on large companies. It turns out that large companies have never faced the problem of access to debt financing, or at least this problem was not as big as for smaller companies, hence leaving funds that would otherwise have been paid in the form of tax did not lead to a significant increase in investment. Given that, however, the largest companies are the companies that pay the most taxes, a large part of this tax expenditure, i.e. expenditure, the cost that Estonia had to bear for the implementation of this tax, even in the first few years, simply without receiving a tax payment, simply did not have any positive effect on the economy. We could say that we noticed a similar phenomenon in the years 2018 and 2019 when this so-called phenomenon. Estonian CIT has also implemented Latvia. The revenues from CIT in Latvia decreased by 90% in the first year following its implementation in the universal formula. In the event of widespread implementation of this so-called. Estonian CIT in Poland could mean especially now, in this particularly difficult year of covid, 2021, a fall from year to year of revenue from this title by up to PLN 40 billion. This is an expense that is very difficult to justify, especially given that it would not lead to an increase in investment, because these funds would not go to those companies that simply need funds. Hence this first limitation, namely only to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, i.e. companies that generate revenues of up to PLN 100 million. I would add, because here was a question for the rapporteur of the minority, for the rapporteur... Excuse me, to the senator... I would like to remind you that this limit is also exhausted by a large majority of companies in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, especially those of medium-sized enterprises. The average company has between PLN 40 million and PLN 200 million in revenue, and here the limit is set at about half the amount of PLN 100 million. Here the second question may arise: why we limit this so-called. Estonian CIT only for limited liability companies and public limited liability companies? Here the answer lies in a vision of creating a legal order on taxation, including ways of supporting investment. The vision now presented by the Ministry of Finance is so-called. minimal maintenance income tax. What's this all about? This is because companies that conduct business in Poland should, as long as they have not yet reached a sufficiently high level of development, do not exceed, you can say, this ceiling of half of the revenue, characterized by medium-sized companies, for so long... As long as they are smaller, they should at least be able to apply a simplified flat-rate form of taxation. Thus, in the project that we are about to analyse, we decided eight times to increase the possibility of applying a lump sum from registered revenues, so that any one-man business operator who is a micro-entrepreneur can benefit from this, i.e. up to 8 million... Excuse me. $2 million, $250... yeah, exactly. On the subject, I would like to say that as long as the company only serves to sustain the entrepreneur and his family, the entrepreneur is not planning a large increase, also a large increase in risk, the search for debt financing, it should be possible to use a simplified form, with a lump sum. When an entrepreneur wants to grow, when e.g. comes a new partner, the entrepreneur is looking for new funds for investment, then the risk increases. We want the company to transform, change its legal form into capital, which also has very good economic effects, namely in the case of some misfortune, e.g. The death of one of the shareholders is not a loss of the so-called. interests in progress, we are not dealing with the termination of employment contracts, with the loss of concessions. Poland's economy is losing a lot of money that even greater economic activity is unfortunately carried out in the form of one-man business activities. Part of this problem has been addressed by the Successive Management Act, but we want to see the trend of moving companies that are developing and where risks are increasing, to strengthen and support capital companies. Good. Estonia's second problem is tax optimisation. In Estonia, after the implementation of the universal system, companies started to appear like mushrooms after the rain, which were intended to avoid taxation. Through Estonia, many profits from other European Union countries were transferred to tax havens. That is why, based on this negative Estonian experience, we have decided to introduce a regulation that would allow for the creation of a tight system, at least at the first stage, when the National Tax Administration will adapt to this. Namely, this system will be covered primarily by those companies that actually exist, are not companies with bangs having only a mailbox and, first, employ a minimum number of people, hence the conditions we talked about, and secondly, at least half of their revenues result from operating activities and not... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you okay? [[A voice from the room: Maybe I'll pick it up...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u159	No, no, it's maximum. Okay, I'd be... [[Voice from the courtroom:... towards the marshal and...]] Minister, I would... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Maybe...]] I'm very pleased that you're addressing me, but because you have a pinhole and you're high-profile, it's just that what you're saying isn't understandable. I can see it from the senators. Closer to the microphone... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Of course, well, I will be closer.]] [[Voice from the room: Why don't you take off that caliper?]] No, no, no, no, I'm not suggesting a picture of a caliper, because if anything happened... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: I suspect that the mask will make it even worse.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't you pick up the speaker?]] You can't pick up the platform anymore, I checked, so that... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: We will try it for now.]] Good. Well, there's the technical problem. I see that the senators do not hear your explanations, which are very important, which are substantive and very important. So, Senator Robert Dowhan... Minister, maybe if you were talking even louder through this hatchet...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u160	Of course. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Firstly, this is the solution that concerns the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, these are the ones that will benefit most from it. Secondly, it is a sealed solution, which is not at risk of optimization, also international. And thirdly, it is also an effective solution. The Estonians also reported to us a third problem with their system. Well, in a crisis situation, e.g. In 2008, and recently, in 2020, the system worked well because by leaving the financial security cushions to companies, these companies have been able to survive a particularly difficult period of economic slowdown. The problem in Estonia is that, in a situation where deconciliation ends, companies have no incentive to invest. Estonia's major problem, which was highlighted by the World Bank and the OECD, is the over-liquidity of the companies that operate there. Hence, the proposal to make at least a minimum of an obligation to make certain investments, with this obligation changing as a project is created, has been made more flexible so that it is not just investment in the fixed assets that we are most concerned about. We aim to increase the productivity of companies to acquire what they could not acquire as a result of liquidity shortages, but we also want them to from the so-called. Estonian CIT benefited from all those companies that really want to invest. Hence the opening of the Estonian system also to companies that invest in employment, because there are also economic activities that benefit in a large part of the work of people and it is the key to increasing the scale of activity, e.g. IT companies or advertising services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u161	Thank you, Minister. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u162	I have a total of three questions for the Minister. The first question is the 15% question. That needs to be invested. That's 15%. About what? Up to 1 year? To the past years? How can this be translated into a language that is understandable to entrepreneurs? Second question. You're saying there's been a consultation with the Estonian Ministry. Have there been consultations with our employers' organisations and other actors that could also suggest other, better solutions? I mean, for example, what they are today in the Czech Republic, where there is a linear tax of 15% . You don't have to look far and work the combination, just pay a small tax And the state is pleased, and the entrepreneur is pleased. And my third question. Minister, what's the deal with this tax? I understand that if you invest for four years, you meet all these requirements, you hire, you don't exceed your income, that 100 million, if I understand correctly, then the company doesn't pay any tax. And after 4 years, will he pay the tax for those 4 years if he does not want to continue to benefit? Is this just a tax deferral in time? Or just what she's already earned... So if he pays CIT a dividend, then he only pays tax on dividends?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u163	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome. Well, maybe I'd have to ask you a follow-up question: are those 15%? Is it supposed to be invested every year? Because every year that means once a year. Can it be within 1 year, or will it be 15% each year during these 4 years ? [[How does this apply, or to the beginning of business, or year by year?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u164	Of course. The company, when deciding to switch to the Estonian system, undertakes to make a certain minimum investment volume, with the base amount for this investment being the value of the fixed assets of the selected categories held by the company. It's important, for example. property, because we know that the company can have a lot of real estate, which would make this amount go very, very high. And now like this: the growth must be 15% within 2 years or 30% within 4 years, and for companies that enter the Estonian system next year, this will not be the obligation for the first 2 years. So we give them the opportunity to just get used to the system and see how it works. And to answer the question of how it works, I'm going to say yes. Indeed, when a company fulfils the conditions for remaining in the Estonian system, there is no tax and, if there is no tax, there is also no obligation to calculate income for tax purposes, to report tax, tax accounting, even the submission of MDRs, i.e. information on the tax schemes used. After 4 years, the trader may decide to remain in the Estonian system if he still meets the conditions. So that this is not a system from which you come out after 4 years, it is a system in which you can stay even forever. However, the final limit, of course, as I mentioned, is in addition to fulfilling other conditions not exceeding the ceiling of PLN 100 million of revenue. In the event of remaining in the Estonian system... Now we pay tax every month, every quarter or every year, also depending on whether these are advances or as part of the annual accounts, and just all the time. the trader lives under such pressure as to reduce income to tax, thus also bearing expenses which cannot always have a full, 100% economic justification, on which not only the Treasury loses not only the Treasury, that we supposedly have less tax revenue, but above all the entrepreneur himself, because he is less rationally managing his assets. In the Estonian system, when the trader himself decides when he will pay the tax because he pays it in practically two situations, namely when he pays his dividend, he will decide it himself, or when he comes out of the Estonian system, it is also a purely voluntary issue... So that, in a situation where he needs funds for investment, he can, on his own, lead to the fact that his tax will hardly ever occur, as long as it stays in the Estonian system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u165	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u166	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the change is due to enter into force on 1 January 2020. This is the question. First of all, this is a very short term. She must be, as I understand it, passed until the end of November, to a certain extent. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u167	No, because it's... First of all, it's not an obligation. Secondly, well, this is a change in favour of entrepreneurs. So that it can also be adopted later.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u168	So the term doesn't seem to bind us. In a way, because by January 1st, we have to end this. But here's the question. Because he's gonna be here... There will certainly be two stakeholders, a taxpayer and a tax office. The question is whether the IRS will have to adapt to this, too. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u169	We were still in the process of drafting legislation, and we are also in constant contact with tax authorities, firstly with the National Tax Administration, and secondly with the National Tax Information, which will also provide information to taxpayers who will call a special number concerning Estonian CIT. So that the process of training employees, tax administration staff has already started and for January they will be ready to handle this tax. And I would also like to stress very much that a large part of the restrictions on entering and remaining in the Estonian system, especially the condition that there is no possibility of holding shares in other companies, possibly the requirement that the company's owners are only natural persons, is precisely the result of the comments of the National Tax Administration, which, on this group, can be said, trusted, safe taxpayers want to simply test this system in the first year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u170	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask these questions which I have already addressed to the Senators of the rapporteurs. It's about these two questions... I mean on one. You've already partially responded. The question is what support medium-sized enterprises receive by entering the Estonian system. And I asked what it looked like... if we had a similar system in other countries. The senator rapporteur for the minority said something about Georgia. I saw in the impact assessment that there was also talk about Germany and I think Chile...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u172	I'll explain right away. Because here we're talking about two different regulations. The first is the Estonian system, such as it operates in Estonia, which means there is absolutely no tax, there are no reporting obligations as long as they remain in it... This system operates in Estonia, Latvia and Georgia. Before that, in the 1980's, it was still in Chile. And in parallel in the same project we also introduce for companies that meet the same conditions, the possibility of creating the so-called. the investment reserve. The investment reserve is, you might say, the path to the Estonian system. We are aware that many companies have accumulated a loss from previous years, benefit from the Polish Investment Zone, special economic zones, have also engaged in the use of R &amp; D relief or IP Box relief. That's why, well, we don't want to shut them down on investment opportunities, liquidity support. That is why we open this possibility to them, on current settlement terms. So they would not have this simplification resulting from the lack of compliance obligations to settle the tax, but could have created themselves a special account for which they could make payments, decoupling its value from the tax base for investment in the coming years. And this investment reserve is the solution that has been operating in Germany, Austria and Hungary for many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u173	Thank you. Are there any other... Oh, Senator Robert Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u174	The last three questions, Minister. First: Can a new entity be set up and used for this Estonian tax? I take it you do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u175	As a matter of fact, you can start a new entity. I will say more: a new entity that enters the Estonian system at the beginning of its activity will be additionally rewarded, e.g. will not have to meet the conditions of employment in the first year of the activity of at least 3 persons outside the shareholders involved not only under the employment contract but also under other contracts resulting in membership. He'll be able to reach that ceiling in three years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u176	The second question, because I didn't quite understand it: if someone is already a partner in a capital company, can he use this Estonian solution in a new entity, if he is a partner?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u177	Of course, maybe. The only limitation applies to a company using the Estonian system itself. The owner of this company cannot be another company and it cannot be the owner of another entity, while its partner may own several capital companies and conduct business activities in different forms.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u178	Good. And one last question. I'd like to ask you again about the tax. I'm sorry, but I didn't really hear it technically... Especially the right side is still jamming, so it didn't come to us. This tax, if all requirements are met and the calendar year is closed... Requirements are met, which means that there is no physical tax; as the Minister said, no tax returns are made. But another year goes by and the company has to pay tax for various reasons. So what's the tax? And is it also for last summer when there was some income, and for those reasons it was not paid? Is it kind of going back, and that too has to be paid, or is it just a new accounting year and tax is paid for this year? And if you pay, what is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u179	In the case of exit from the Estonian system, depending on whether it is done alone or as a result of a breach of one of the conditions, there is a need to settle the difference between the accounting value of the company's assets at the time of entry into the Estonian system and the one at the exit. And here, first of all, we use accounting rules, which means that this settlement is also more favourable than tax rules, because there is a smaller catalogue of costs that are called. NKUPs, i.e. they cannot represent revenue costs, and secondly, the tax rate is slightly lower. Now the cumulative CIT with CIT is 34.39% for large companies, and in the case of small CIT taxpayers, this limit is also increased by the next law that we are going to talk about today, up to EUR 2 million in revenue - 26,29%. So when leaving the Estonian system, the tax rate for large companies instead of 34.3% is 30%, and instead of 26,29%, 25%. So that there are also more favourable cost settlement rules, and a little lower tax rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u180	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If I could ask you a question... I'm talking about the subject of taxation. What are the categories of taxable income? And are there hidden profits? I know it's a category somewhere, but I'm not on the budget committee. Are they also covered here... Are they subject to taxation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u182	Yes, at the request of the National Tax Administration... We were also asked to create a catalogue of safeguards that would not allow the company to pay its shareholders funds without paying the dividend. So that we actually created in the act a catalogue of withdrawals, possibly some related activities of payment, which will be treated as if we paid a dividend. This is e.g. enable the shareholder to live in premises that are owned by the company or to use the car for private purposes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u183	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a bit so that a good pattern, which is actually so-called. Estonian CIT... This approach could be a very good thing for many CIT taxpayers in our country. That is, when we approached analyses and discussions about this law, we thought that the proposed solutions would be very good. And it's a little bit like we're going into the woods, because that's how it happens when we go into the woods, it gets darker and more trees are coming out. And what we have just talked about today is that an entrepreneur, a man who will carry out an economic activity and will allegedly benefit from this benefit, will have a huge problem with it. We are talking about the fact that potentially 200 000 economic operators will be entitled to use this tax solution. Unfortunately, I am convinced that in the first year it will actually be a handful of companies. It's going to be a handful of entrepreneurs who do business. Satisfied with this solution will be: accountants, accounting offices, tax advisors. The questions that have just been asked indicate that this system is, unfortunately, complicated and incomprehensible. However, I cannot agree with the omission and treatment of a little bit of step-by-step economic operators as natural persons. I know they're not CIT payers. I always ask the question: why do we differentiate entrepreneurs as part of new solutions? How do we explain this, given that now in the country, there are more than 3 million 300 entities, including 2 million 400, which are individuals' single-person activities? How we will explain to those who will not be able to benefit from the so-called. Estonian CIT, is that a solution? This will be very difficult to explain and show this solution as a benefit of the entire tax system. It did not sound good, and I think it should sound also in this debate information that by leaning over CIT, we should remember that still in our Polish solution shareholders will have to pay PIT. There is no such element in a typical Estonian solution. So we leave again... we take one step forward, two steps backwards. This is the situation today when it comes to a solution that is prepared and proposed by the Ministry of Finance. And one more thing. When the government prepares tax solutions, I have such a warning signal. And this time it went off too. Why? Because it is often said that currently proposed tax solutions are good solutions for entrepreneurs, for taxpayers. And notice who you're forgetting. I'd like to make it sound like you're forgetting about local governments. Because if you have introduced tax changes for people up to the age of twenty-six, you have changed tax rates and today you are introducing lump sums under CIT, then you automatically reduce the revenue of local governments. You have not proposed any instrument to compensate local governments for the loss of their own income. The regional government, which in this case will lose the most for this, did not receive any proposal from the Ministry of Finance to compensate for this loss. It's kind of like that the government in tax terms is by the government, by the Ministry of Finance I'm not afraid to use that word. Cut slowly into slices. At the end of the day, local governments will turn out the lights. Not just on the streets. And this is the direction that governs the current government. This is the second, but what an important thing I wanted to say. Therefore, in the next law that we have already mentioned today, we want to propose some kind of compensation for local governments. We want to introduce a solution that will in some way compensate for the losses incurred for the implementation of this law. That's too bad. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. That we take 1 step forward and 2 steps backwards. Minister, more courage, less fear, and then you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u185	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, we supported the so-called law. the Estonian tax, knowing that it has many, many shortcomings and that in practice it does not contain a precise version of this tax, which was introduced in Estonia for these companies. Besides, there are also many problems with this tax in Estonia, and he also has many weaknesses. You could say that... and that's how I think about what we're doing and what the government's doing about it, that... it seems to me that you're missing the consequences of things. Some time ago, we adopted the so-called law in the Seym and in the Senate. Little CIT, huh? This is for companies whose turnover in a given year is probably up to EUR 1 million 200 000, 9% taxation. You thought it was a test at the time, too. You said: we will see how this works, how it will work in practice, whether it will contribute to the development of entrepreneurship in the organised form of public limited liability companies. I can't assess it today, but I think that's the mistake that's still... I cannot assess, because I do not know whether the number of these companies has actually increased, whether the number of companies taxed with this tax has increased, etc. And again: by presenting the so-called law. Estonian tax, you say That's how you justified it at the committee meeting. That this is an experiment, that is, a test like this, to see how it will work, and that you will then be able to show various other solutions. And the second element, which also... You said during the committee meeting that you wanted one-man activity to be transformed, for example. in single-member companies or companies to make such a trend, because if a natural person conducting an economic activity dies, it is simply a problem with the inheritance and the operation of the company. In the latter case, I would like to say this: in 2018 the Sejm adopted the law I remember her perfectly. On the management of a successful enterprise of a natural person and other facilitations related to the succession of enterprises. This law was adopted precisely to prevent the liquidation of the company after the death of its owner, so that the heirs could introduce a succession board, even if there is a dispute between them. This board can function for up to 2 years. I'm talking about it because I remember in our time of government that I invented... Of course, I'm not alone. We came up with a bill that didn't come in. It was a law that we called "Donatio mortis causa" or transfer of the company in the event of death. This has not been implemented, but in practice this law, which is from 2018, deals with this issue. So you can't say that we think companies are a better option. It seems to me that it is simply disrespectful to people who conduct one-man business activity and are responsible for the entire wealth of doing this business. In the company it is only up to the amount of shares and it is probably even more convenient. It should be the other way around. Let's just say that you have the guts to start a business, and you're risking all your assets in this case. And here it turns out that these people are underestimated, it is said better to transform, put the minimum capital in there and it will be much better, yes, unfortunately, it was said at the committee meeting. Maybe it came out a little bit, so to speak, and today you'll probably be pulling out of this phrase, but it was a voice that was basically a vote against individuals conducting a one-man business. And the second point: this bill has its good elements, but what I'm saying again is an experiment and we'll see how it works. In such cases you can't talk like that, you can't act like that, because we're doing an experiment. There may be a lot of companies in this experiment and they will benefit from it, but others will be outside this system. So there's gonna be one big group of entrepreneurs that uses the system, and the other that can't use it. We have introduced this amendment precisely for this reason, so that this also applies to cooperatives. Today the cooperative movement is very weak and we should think about how to support cooperatives, because it is a good form of economic activity. This is a slightly different way, but the social attitude is perhaps even more favorable to such an economic activity. And it's gonna be outside of this system. Of course, you'll find some justification here. No, they don't pay dividends, etc. But cooperatives also want to raise capital for future investments. It would have to be introduced, even partially... In this amendment, we are trying to introduce the principle that the Estonian tax in the part concerning the raising of capital will also include cooperatives. Well, today this tax doesn't include individuals either. Of course we know, we understand that this is CIT, but it cannot be left in the worse situation of entrepreneurs engaged in one-man business activity. They have committed their capital, their wealth, they have a great responsibility, and they will pay a higher tax than others. Here was a declaration from the director of the department that this idea that I made at the committee meeting... This is not about this tax being in such a classic Estonian issue, but about giving one-man business people the right to raise capital for investment, so that this capital at a certain time, for example. For five years, it was not subject to tax. The point is that this taxpayer's income should be collected so that he can make an investment in time. Well, if someone hadn't made an investment at a time that would have been the result of the law, that income would, of course, be taxed, even higher than the normal tax that is paid on a general basis. It's all to be done. All I'm saying is that we shouldn't keep experimenting. Well, now we're experimenting on a group of small businesses, small companies, which we give 9%. CIT. Right? Then we introduce Estonian tax for another group of small entrepreneurs. These further experiments, which persist in the economy and in the tax system, de facto lead to a mess. The Minister's head is spinning, and he's probably saying, "He's the one who's talking nonsense." No, he's not. I don't even hear what you're saying, but I suspect that's how you comment with the department director. It seems to me that we should be thinking about general solutions that would apply to everyone and not share taxpayers because this one is organized into a company, this one is a one-man business, and this one is a cooperative. If they are active, regardless of their legal formula, they should generally pay the same taxes. Right? This also applies to those wretched limited companies on which you believe they are better taxed than others. As a general rule, the Ministry of Finance should seek to introduce general rules for all those engaged in economic activities. If this is not necessary, let us not depend on the amount of taxes or various reliefs on how someone is organized, how the company operates, etc. The only thing I'm gonna say is... Oh, one more thing. It is worth noting that one-man economic activity is most often carried out by young people. They start by running a one-man business. Later, some become a company, but some do not. After all, there are many very large companies, even world-wide, global, which are a single-person business activity. You could give examples here, but I don't want to promote these companies. It's just worth appreciating any form of action. It is important to ensure that these are solutions for all, not just for individual groups of entrepreneurs. Today we should also consider how to introduce this small, 9% CIT tax. We should try to figure out if this is a good solution, how we could expand it, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to thank you for thinking about other subjects, Mr President, Mr Kazimierz Kleina. His inherent modesty led to the fact that... well, Mr President proposed that this solution should include housing cooperatives as well. [[Cooperatives...]] Mr. Chairman... [[All the cooperatives.]] All the cooperatives. Thank you very much for that. Because there are entities like: Social cooperatives and they should develop in carrying out a unique economic mission. That is why I would like to thank you very warmly for this idea, for this initiative. Of course, there's some kind of problem that needs to be considered... And I'm also going to be curious about the Minister's voice, and I'm going to say that I listened very carefully, and I really see the work you did at the Ministry of Finance. For me, it would be interesting to know whether you are working on something, whether there are any ideas, ideas, initiatives, to think about people who run a one-man business, for example. taking into account this mechanism, that non-investment in the future results in higher taxation. But I will go back to my horse, that is, comparing the Estonian solution with the Polish one. Minister, a wise Polish proverb says: better rite than nothing. So there's no doubt about it. I am very happy that there is this initiative. But when you compare both solutions, you can see that these changes are not just about the fact that you embraced SMEs. There, in Estonia, is unlimited time. As long as someone's investing It doesn't pay CIT at all. In addition, a number of conditions have been introduced in Poland, which are not in the Estonian original. Perhaps correct me if, in some passage, my particular statement requires clarification. But when I look at him as a lawyer, not an economist... The Estonian tax system assumes that there is no corporate income tax until the profit is paid. Please note the pro-investment mechanism. That entrepreneur who's still investing doesn't pay income tax. There is no more effective tool to encourage pro-investment policy. If the company is an o.o. does not pay a profit, the CIT tax is 0. I'm talking about the Estonian solution, of course. At the time of the payment of the profit, the company pays CIT in normal amounts, and a dividend tax is still levied on individuals. Thus, the cumulative profit that can be allocated to investments is not taxed, and this exclusion is unlimited in time. When I look at the Estonian solution, this seems to me to be the essential advantage of this solution in the Estonian model. We look at the Polish version: the profit of the companies with o.o. is not taxed. And public limited liability companies, but only for four years, with the possibility of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll be right back. I know what you're trying to say. ...with the possibility of extending until the age of 8. After that period or at the time of the dividend payment, the tax is higher than the nominal CIT rate. For a small taxpayer instead of 9 it will be 15% , for the others instead of 19 will be 25%. I'll tell you what you're trying to say: it could be reduced, but with a lot of investment. Of course, if you think that I did not include something in this analysis, I will be very happy to hear it, and Polish entrepreneurs will be even more eager to hear it. The condition for applying this deferral is to invest, additionally, Minister, cars and buildings have been excluded. So it is not enough to build a new production hall to use it. Besides, we've got a lot of extra conditions, some of which you've been talking about. A turnover of up to PLN 100 million, employment of a certain number of employees, no hidden transfers to owners, e.g. the purchase of own resources. Finally, after paying off the dividend I saw such simulations made by accountants After 8 years the savings are, but in the order of 4,5%. And I'm not saying it's bad. Good. But with this way of presenting this project, you have raised more expectations, and that is why we need to inform very precisely what this solution gives, and what does not give, that cognitive dissonance among those who run Polish companies, not to deepen. Let me repeat: I support this project, I will vote for it, and I hope that when you gather good experience in the implementation of this project, we will be able to expand it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u189	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Nor do I say that this solution is wrong, because any solution that is intended, at least theoretically, to relieve taxpayers or encourage investment, or to keep these capitals in the company, and not to remain, for example. overeating. albeit that's what you live for, to consume. I'll be the one to back it up. I'm just wondering why we keep making things harder for ourselves. Why can't we create a simple system, equal to everyone, and not that there is always an exception to exceptions, exceptions to individuals, cooperatives, that it is divided, is messed up here, and in the end it comes down to what Senator Kwiatkowski said, that if it really counts, maybe 4% will come out, maybe 3% will come out, and if someone makes a mistake on the way out, it will add to the business? Because if he can't buy, for example. A business car, and he's gonna want to develop a distribution company, have representatives, what are they gonna drive? Skateboarding? Come on, Minister! You can't e.g. build a building or invest in a hall? I don't quite agree with that. This Estonian example was given here. I have a brief study here, a few sentences about this tax. It says right here. And it's because of our employers who wrote a few sentences about it. That the tax system of this country has been constructed very simply so as to attract investors. In Estonia there is no double taxation of the same amount, additional income tax is paid only at the time of distribution of income. This will mean that the company in Estonia does not pay tax as long as the money is retained in the company Well, it's gonna be the same for us. For example, in order to invest in its development, unlike most countries, including Poland. In order to invest, and investing under different names is hidden. Can we not, as I said, make a uniform pro-investment for e.g. all countries of the European Union low tax? Isn't that gonna drive development? Well, when there was an economic crisis in Europe after World War I, road investments or very small taxes drove this economy. Do we have to do this tax thing today... Just like it's with cars. Well, since I can remember, cars have always been a problem. And for every government. For the Ministry of Finance. Some bars were put in. Yeah, there were kids or cinquecentos with bars as trucks. Where'd you get the crash, going 75 km/h? No, it's a truck, the driver doesn't get anything from the insurance because he's speeding up, he broke the rules, he doesn't deserve compensation. Everyone put bars like crazy, in big cars, in a limo. And then they invented a bank car, and they put the boxes in the carpets. Then a wise man invented the pattern of Lisak. Today again there is a limit of 150 thousand, above you can not lease the car. Well, it's called. Hidden tax, because we're not gonna charge that amount anymore. Minister, can't a simple solution be adopted, e.g. as is in the Czech Republic: 15% tax regardless of whether it is a natural person or a company? The Czechs are coming. The Slovaks have a little higher, but the same registration there is really very simple. Does the Ministry of Finance have data, how many people escaped from Poland e.g. to the Czech Republic? How many people escaped to Slovakia? How many people do their business there? What's the problem with getting a mansion today? It's not a problem. Today we have open borders, well, until we get out of the Union. Today is the ease of flow. And we know that everyone is looking for a way. But you can't divide all these companies today by different tax methods. I remember that one day I don't know if the Minister remembers because he's a young man, so maybe he doesn't remember. The former sheltered work facilities. We all paid VAT, we had to give it back, and a sheltered workplace with a proud name could do nothing, but this VAT had for itself as a income. And you know, there's competition on the market. Then who was winning? It's a sheltered work facility. The VAT we had to pay back to him was the normal money that stayed at the company. Well, it's a good thing it was closed down, but before it was wiped out, how much it messed up the market. Of course, I'll vote for it too, but today I think it's the biggest dilemma. And you want to introduce what is in the next item at the last moment I think they're gonna have a accountant because we're all lost in the law, but we're all lost in the business. The simplest solutions, Minister, I think they work best. The idea is to have equal rules and equal solutions for everyone. Today, in a time of crisis, instead of encouraging tax cuts, so that people... As Senator Frost said, there's so much capital in the banks. People are afraid to invest, do not want to take risks, pay taxes on taxes, taxes on fuel, taxes on VAT and others, limited... I don't know why the Ministry won't take care of the fact that today the company can't account for the cost of contributions to PFRON. Well, that's incomprehensible. By employing more than 15 people, we pay for PFRON, and for this we have nothing and it cannot be included in the costs. Is that fair, Minister? Does that fit in the standard? You guys are throwing the Estonian system in here, and you can't sort things out, things that, yes, haven't been introduced by your government, but that have been in place for years. Despite many speeches so far, nothing has changed in this regard. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mr. Mr. Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. To be honest, I'm a little surprised at the course of this discussion. And I'm just wondering how we're going to be discussing at the next point where we're going to talk about fighting some form of tax optimization. Some taxpayers might be less satisfied... And here, when we introduce strict solutions positive, because no one loses it, but can gain it, it raises some doubts from the Civic Platform or generally wider the understood opposition addressed to the government. Today we are introducing a solution, which I will remind my colleagues from the Civic Platform, was adopted with a crushing advantage of the votes in the Sejm. The solution is probably not perfect, it could probably be wider... Besides, the Minister has already announced that in the near future we will probably extend the possibility of using the so-called. CIT Estonian for example cooperatives, i.e. operators operating in the form of cooperatives. I do not understand why once again different speakers, fellow senators from the Civic Platform, are talking about this one-man business activity. Well, if someone doesn't pay CIT, they can't use that Estonian CIT or whatever we call it. There are different forms of business activity. Nobody defends anybody from turning their own company into a limited liability company or a public limited liability company, and even if I say so, there are incentives, although not in these regulations... We'd like companies to grow. As the company grows, it is natural to change the legal and organisational form of its functioning, not only because of various tax, but also organisational, security issues. If you run a company, you have some kind of profit, not only in terms of the form of taxation, but also in other areas of operation, the conduct of such an operator. The solutions we are introducing are primarily intended to encourage investment. We say this: you don't pay tax, tax payer, but invest. Taxpayer in the sense of "partner." Yes? But there are people behind this company. And those who own the company and those who manage the company. We say invest. Invest because we need an investment today. If the issue of investment is not an incentive, then even better liquidity... Because you can leave this money in the company and maneuver it for different periods, that it will make it easier to function, because the economic cycle is very unpredictable and can be of different kinds of seasonality in different industries. So I don't understand a little bit of doubt, to put it mildly, my colleagues from the Civic Platform, that they multiply doubts. I have such a sad statement, that is, that even if we offered something very beneficial to taxpayers 'Cause it's hard to get attached to the fact that it's bad for taxpayers. Anyway, it's going to come up with some criticism, some doubts in the Senate. Well, I would like to see this House, if something is good, but this is what the Senators of the Civic Platform declare, including Mr Kleina, with whom I have very good cooperation in the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, which I must stress... However, I would like us not to question the good solutions all the time. After all, I have not heard you say anything good for once, so that for once you may commend something, so that you may say: yes, these are good solutions, we support them undisputedly. Even when there are good solutions, you put a comma, you say "but." And you're multiplying your doubts. Senator Dowhan presented very widely in his statement what are the various kinds of problems that entrepreneurs have. Of course, there are many problems. But I'm just thinking about getting ready for all the different good things we've done for entrepreneurs for the five years... Well, Senator Dowhan's list of all kinds of shortcomings that are difficult for entrepreneurs' lives and which are a raid of 15, 10 years, still from the time of AWS, from the time of an economic genius from the Union of Freedom, etc., etc. Well, that's how it all works. And just to remind you how much we've put in place in these five years... Now that we're here today, Mr. Senator Dowhan, at CIT, let's remember that we now have one of the lowest... I don't want to shoot it here, the Minister can correct me, but with a nine-percent CIT, I think we're after Ireland. I don't know if that's the case right now, because they're changing the situation too... We have probably the lowest CIT in the European Union, which is paid by Polish entrepreneurs. Well, there's no lower CIT. Well, these are concrete solutions. Even if someone already has to pay this CIT, I am a small and medium-sized entrepreneur, because there are obviously some kind of thresholds, then such favourable tax solutions, when it comes to tax, there is nowhere else. If you're praising everything that's abroad today, look at the tax burden, e.g. as regards CIT, they are in Germany, France. There is no CIT tax of 9% at all. Of course, it can be said again that a point solution in the Czech Republic is more favourable, but it would probably have to be traced, because other Czech solutions might be less favourable. Because of the proximity of the border, so to speak, these solutions cannot be so different, because in fact some taxpayers would run away there. It is harder to escape from Poland to Portugal, but it is very easy to escape to the Czech Republic. Mr. Senator, if you have any solutions, put them together. You have a majority in the Senate, you can always make a legislative initiative. As far as I know, really Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, being so closely associated with the economic sector... If there are good solutions, you will offer something meaningful, they will gain, so to speak, support from our side. Because it's not like someone has a monopoly on good solutions. Economic life is very complicated today, legal solutions are multifaceted. The easiest thing is to criticize, but offer something. I as Krzysztof Mróz guarantee, because I cannot guarantee for others, because in the Senate everyone appears under his name, that certainly good solutions for entrepreneurs, which Senator Dowhan will propose and which will not blow up the budget, because we can prepare such a solution that we will exempt from paying taxes at all and it will be rational... Well, I'm sure a lot of my friends and colleagues will support that. But if something's good, I'd like someone on this Civic Platform to have the courage to say yes, they're good solutions. And if you don't want to say it, maybe don't criticize it. I hope you will vote in favour of these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to tell you that many opposition senators today supported Prime Minister Morawiecki, claiming that he negotiated a very good budget for Poland of the European Union. Well, it's hard to get more sincere support for the Prime Minister, like in this case he's gotten from us. [[It's just a good budget, so...]] [[Because it's a good budget...]] I'm just saying, Mr. Senator, this is proof of this. The opposition senators also said that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki negotiated a very good budget for Poland and participated in negotiations on a very good budget for Poland. Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz... excuse me, Senator Bierecki, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to begin by thanking you for all the voices we have heard during the debate, which support this law and the proposed solutions. Of course, these solutions, as a new proposal, a new philosophy of how to collect CIT tax, generate questions, may also cause some concern or uncertainty about how the proposed solutions work, but I am pleased that no one questioned the quality of these solutions or their purpose. PLN 5.6 billion, which will remain in the pockets of Polish entrepreneurs according to the justification for this law in the first year, is also significant support for the Polish economy during this difficult period. So it is good that this law will come into force from next year. One of my concerns is that in this law the group of beneficiaries of this new tax arrangement is limited to companies governed by commercial law, to companies governed by the law. I must say that here I am convinced by the arguments which have sounded in this Chamber and which are contained in the amendments adopted by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, for which I have also voted, in amendments which extend the subject matter of this law primarily to cooperatives operating in our country. Cooperatives in Poland are a significant sector. Failure to do so at the initial stage of implementation of this law is not justified. Cooperatives should make use of this possibility from the very beginning, because they are certainly the actors who need this support, they need this support, among others. because they have not been treated fairly in previous years, they need this support because it is 100% Polish capital. So I would like to ask all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to support this amendment in the bill and also to ask the Minister to kindly treat this amendment proposed by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u195	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina. I would remind you that this is the second speech, and the senator has five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Frost is still waiting to be praised, praised, praised by the government, praised by the PiS. You don't need that kind of expectation. If he had listened to the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, if he had remembered how the committee worked on this law And he is a member of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, he would point out that the committee simply supported this law and made amendments, for which the senator did not vote, but Senator Bierecki did, concerning cooperatives, not housing, only cooperatives engaged in economic activities. And it's just worth seeing. Our voices or my vote are not against this bill. They just point out that we all No matter where we are when it comes to governance, because once they rule, once they rule... now the PiS rules, we should work in such a way as to introduce general rules, actually making things easier. Starting from the beginning at every stage this is a bad policy and a bad way of acting and managing. And that's all we talked about here. I'm glad Senator Frost said he'd support the initiative we've been talking about here. I mentioned her, I reported her at the committee meeting. And Mr. Director said it's a good idea, we'll consider it. It is the creation of a fund which would be released in time before investment or exit from investment by persons engaged in a single business activity. I hope that the government will prepare such a legislative initiative, and if it does not, then we in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance will try to sit on it, work on it, try to prepare such rules so that they are comparable to all economic operators. The worst thing about all of this is As I say, I do not criticize ad hoc, but generally The fact that rules are being introduced, which concern one industry, one group of entrepreneurs, that we in Poland still cannot think more generally, cannot introduce rules that affect everyone. I guess you can never do that to everyone. But the point is that there is no such thing as exclusion, preference, privilege, and privilege. And that's a big problem. The result of this law will be a drop in revenue to the state budget of PLN 5 billion, i.e. so much will remain in the hands of entrepreneurs, so it is assumed in this law. This 5 billion zloty loss in the state budget, when the budget for the year is barely ten bucks and has to be financed by a massive budget deficit this year... The amendment of the budget law increases the budget deficit by PLN 90 billion, and the total debt due to COVID is over PLN 200 billion this year. And that's the money borrowed. So, talking about how we're releasing someone from their taxes... I support this, but it is always necessary to say: at the same time we borrow more than 200 billion zlotys, we do not have this money. That's the money the government's giving away, but that money's gonna have to be returned in a little while. If this perspective is seen and thought about in such categories, then it is as if it is better to think about what the tax system should be in Poland. And once again, I mean, our committee, too. We write it every time, at least most of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance That the rules that are being introduced should not be general, should not be exclusionary, should encourage, but not chosen, only everyone. And that's all I wanted to say for an extra five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Robert Dowhan in a similar five-minute regime, because that's the Senator's second speech at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u198	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. It's hard to speak from a speaker like my dear friend. Senator Mr. Mr. Frost isn't here... It's not like anyone criticized it. We criticized or, even more so, we asked the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, and you told Senator Kleina about it so that we might not start another topic again, and then, next year, another one, in relation to a narrow group of people. The point is that there are bents that say it has to be done, that has to be done, you'll have better, but this, but that and somewhere in the end it all gets blurry. Any initiative that will enable someone to invest and pay less tax is of course valuable, but you can only do it, as I noticed in my speech, in general, you can think about introducing a single system, you can take all entrepreneurs, you can not put them into categories, do not differentiate that someone is small, someone is big, someone is old or so, someone has a commando, someone is a natural person... Let everyone have equal rights, as mentioned in the Constitution. One tax and the same deductions. I think we gave an example of cars here. Well, that's a good example. Because the state has completely cut off the possibility of investing in new equipment. Well, you can count off 150,000 zlotys. And how big a car costs, I don't know, $200,000, who's gonna pay the rest? Well, you need it out of your own pocket, you can't put it in the company's expense anymore, can you? Well, you can't, Minister. You did it last year. And if you don't buy cars, you don't buy tires, you don't buy oil, you don't do reviews, you pick them up... The Minister said you weren't picking anything up. Basically, it's about making such a project for the future. Because those mistakes for many years... Not only did PiS rule, there were a lot of neglects behind the Platforms, and earlier, for AWS and others who ruled. Today is the time to try to risk and give people a chance, lower the general tax, give them the opportunity to recover VAT from cars, from other things. It could go into depreciation, which could be settled faster. Or toss it all into the cost. It'll encourage you to invest, too. Nothing like buying, I don't know, a machine that can be immediately cushioned in a year, two or three, not like today, when it's decomposing for years. Maybe these are some good solutions to create a system for the future. But, of course, we will vote in favour of this resolution and in favour of the amendments. At least I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I hope I'm audible right now. [[Yes, Mr. Senator, you're heard, and I'm sure I'll be glad to tell you that you're also visible.]] Because I see your marshal too, our joy is mutual. I would just like to refer to what Senator Frost said. Senator Frost can often be rational, even conceptual. But I was terribly surprised at the way he suddenly attacked the opposition senators. The whole anti-objection phillipic thing, well, it was kind of weird to me. And thank you very much, Senator Bierecki, for bringing a colleague from his formation to this normal level. Well, it turns out there were some doubts you raised, Senator Bierecki. And I'm very glad that they sounded and that, after all, our Senate committee... And yet we have the opportunity to change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed and Senator Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the minutes. There are no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 249 and the report of the Commission In print No 249 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a report by the committee on the work on the Government Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain individuals, and some other acts - print No 249. Ladies and gentlemen, this complex matter was discussed by the Committee on Budget and Finance at 2 meetings on 18 and 24 November. According to the Minister, I understand that also the government The Act aims primarily at sealing the income tax system... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If I could have a moment of peace... [[Gentlemen of the Senators, I would very much like to ask you to have conversations in a way that will enable you to speak to the senator.]] The Act aims to seal the corporate income tax system so as to ensure that large multinational companies link the amount of tax they pay to their actual place of income. In addition, it is about increasing the attractiveness of taxation of individuals in the form of flat-rate income tax and broadening the group of taxpayers who will be able to benefit from this form. The most important standards and directions of the bill in question are, first, the subject of corporation tax on limited partnership companies established in the territory of the Republic of Poland, public companies established in the territory of the Republic of Poland, if their partners are not exclusively natural persons. Secondly, limiting the possibility of using the so-called. Abolition relief. Thirdly, the introduction into the tax system of the definition of a real estate company and the establishment of rules concerning those companies. Fourthly, the extension of the scope of persons entitled to benefit from flat-rate income tax and the modification of the lump sum from registered income. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Minister, all these legal aspects will leave PLN 7 billion to taxpayers. This is to be done mainly by reducing CIT from 19% to 9% with a limit raised from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 2 million, by increasing the lump sum limit from EUR 250 000 to EUR 2 million, by extending the list of industries that will be able to settle in a flat-rate manner, by reducing tax rates on revenues recorded for people with so-called. liberal professions There are two groups here, falling from 20% to 17% and from 17% to 15%. At the same time, thanks to the sealing of these 2 elements, which I have said, as the Minister has presented to us, the budget is to reach by PLN 2 billion more, mainly from the sealing of limited companies and the elimination of the abolition allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's presentation of these assumptions took a short time because the main burden of the discussion... Well, it developed during questions of different backgrounds. I think some of these questions will repeat themselves today, too. I would now like to present briefly the thesis which were preached by individual participants in the discussion, representatives of both the Legislative Office and the various sectors, organisations and social factors which, despite the pandemic, participated in the work of our committee. At the same time, I would like to say that a dozen different types of opinions from different business environments and associations have been received by the Legislative Commission, the opinions of the so-called "one-man" people. liberal professions, advisors, accounting associations, tax advisors, etc., etc. It is very important that during the examination of this law we had so broad information about different environments. That is why I would like to say immediately, Minister, that all these things that have happened during this debate, which are going to fall today, are not just to criticize what is being put forward, but to talk about what is good and what is the wrong side. That was the idea of both people present... I would like to say immediately that there was probably not one person present who would say that the bill is so bad that it is entirely suitable for basketball. So that is rather an element that says that the bill brings good things and controversial things, which I will also give you here in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator has made some comments on the bill submitted, and I think I need to remove this mask because my glasses evaporate here. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been 7 legislative reservations, i.e. those mostly supported by the Minister and by the Government and included in the joint amendments of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. At the same time, the legislator presented 4 constitutional reservations and 1 comment was a general remark. I will just say briefly that, first, the constitutional remark concerns the deadline for the entry into force of the law. If it were to apply from January next year, i.e. in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, it must be published at the latest on 30 November. As a result, the President... the whole signing process, the examination is extremely narrowed down. And here is the opinion of the legislator that this is an unconstitutional element. Secondly, there is an opinion on double taxation of limited companies, a reservation concerning non-constitutionality. Thirdly, regarding the matter of vacathio legis... Suppose the law is published on 30 November, it enters into force on 1 January. Well, the period of vacathio legis is too short. This is also a matter of unconstitutionality in the opinion of the legislator. And fourthly, a few elements that were introduced into the bill during the examination in the Seym... There were 3 readings and this is also a constitutional remark. At the same time, the legislator pointed out that... the fifth reservation is such a general remark that not in all parts of the law clearly clarifies the scope of the subject matter. Now, a few words... Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a closer look at the voices that have been cast in the Chamber. Of course, I will not quote everyone because the meetings were very long, there were a lot of speeches, a lot of discussions. So I'm going to present some of these elements that were very characteristic. As I said, opinions have been received from BCC, Leviathan, the Enterprise Council, associations of liberal professions, lawyers, advisers, foundations that support the activities of family businesses. So we had a lot of different kinds of opinions about this law. What comments were received from the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises? Well, all the speeches were very important, but because the spokesperson for small and medium-sized companies is a person or institution dealing with small and medium-sized companies, his opinion was very, very important here. First of all, I would like to say that the Ombudsman has expressed his positive views on many provisions of the law relating, generally speaking, to the reduction of taxes. I read them and communicated them in the first part. And this is a case that is an absolute asset of the bill. But he had some reservations about setting a limit, he changed, from 250 to 2 million, whether there should be any limits at all... Well, that's the question of future decisions. What criticism did the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises make? Firstly, it was very critical of the double taxation of limited companies, as many small and medium-sized companies operate in the form of limited companies. I will say that there are 40 thousand limited companies on the Polish market, if I remember correctly. And the spokesperson was very critical of the introduction of double taxation. At the same time, there is a question of vacathio legis, that vacathio legis is too short. In the first version it was supposed to be that the entire law was in force from 1 January, in the case of limited companies, it was extended, but the Ombudsman was right in our view to raise the question that at least one year or even two years should be a period of vacathio legis. This should be for a simple reason: if X is carrying out a project, it doesn't last six months. There are projects that sometimes last 2, 3 years and therefore vacathio legis should be longer. They were also indicated by the Ombudsman for the advantages of the limited partnership companies, for which we would like you, Minister, Ministry and Government to have special attention. The limited companies are companies that serve to implement innovation, strengthen start-ups, that is, all that is connected with entering the capital market, but not immediately with full responsibility. The limited companies create better conditions for entering the business market, such safer and therefore very, very important. Criticism has also met the record on the elimination of the relief... [[Voice from the room: Absolution relief.]] Next, I would like to say a few words to the representative of the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation. I'm not gonna say it again. He shared many of these comments, which were the subject of the Ombudsman's speech by small and medium-sized companies, but raised some other objections. First, it's a matter of consultation. Minister, according to the information we had, the drafts of these laws were on Thursday, and the opinion was due to reach Monday. For a matter that builds a foundation or as if it serves to build the foundation of tax law, construction related to economic activity... Well, you just have to say that this discussion period is very, very important. This debate during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has shown, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, how important it is to have this kind of discussion and to be open to this discussion. I'm just gonna add that I think the minister didn't miss it. That there was a very important declaration by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr. Spokesman says this: Minister, we have a 10-point programme to improve the functioning of companies in the Republic. An important element of this 10-point programme is that there is no loss of revenue of the state budget. Well, there's always an element where a good project can crash. I therefore encourage you, Minister, to have such debates, discussions, arguments, arguments. This is not about unanimity, because we will never achieve anything in unanimity. Just discussion, support, conversation, arguments, confrontation with these arguments lead to better solutions. The POHiD representative also raised a reservation regarding the publication of the company's tax policy. I know the Minister disagrees because he presented them during this debate, but for now I am presenting ideas in the debate. I present what the POHiD representative said, that all the data that companies are supposed to add is in the hands of all tax institutions and ministries. Therefore, in the opinion of the organisation it is the entrepreneurs who are to aggregate, do, prepare and send it. This is another excessive burden on entrepreneurs. A very important question, Minister, is the question of individual interpretation. You are quickly introducing a new bill in your assessment. However, when we are talking about taxing limited companies, there are interpretations on the basis of which companies built a financial project, a project of action. Therefore, this kind of rapid closure of existing forms of action without this longer period in the assessment of the representatives of the organisation is very, very unfavourable, as this completely changes the conditions of functioning on the market. Now I would like to say a few words about what the professor from the University of Łódź said as a representative of the scientific community. I will not present the whole speech, but I encourage you to read the transcripts, because from a scientific point of view, but also functionally this statement brings very good, cool knowledge, which can be used also when building the target strategy. The more voices, the more voices of practitioners, the more questions and the more openness on your part, this is what Senator Dowhan called for in the previous discussion... This will result in a better product on the market when it comes to functioning on this market. What did the professor say? The professor said that there was no justification except for the fiscal objective of double taxation of limited partnership companies. The professor says this: the government confuses optimization with circumvention. The Minister presented here, of course, a completely different opinion, and I think it will also indicate this in his speech. I want to say yes. Minister, what you said here... The government has sufficient instruments to prosecute those who evade the law in order to avoid paying taxes, to prosecute all those taxes due. Optimization... here was an example that if someone bought for cash and now buys in leasing, it optimizes its costs. The professor said: please do not confuse these two things, it would be worthwhile that these two concepts, optimization and escape from paying taxes, should be distinguished by the Minister and the Government. For now, I'm quoting what the Professor said. It is often argued that in 2013 there was an attempt to tax limited companies. There's been a trial like this once, I think, in 2013, if I remember correctly. I want to say yes. 2 days later we had a debate and one of the professors said: when it was tried in 2013 to introduce taxation for limited companies and when the same arguments were presented today, these people listened to it and withdrew from the stupid idea. Yes, that was the conclusion of the speech. The professor also said what the effects of this double taxation would be. The number of limited partnership companies on the market will clearly decrease, contrary to European trends, because the 15 most developed countries are developing, supporting, can be said in general, because it is already supporting, the development of limited partnership companies, because they have their value: market launch, lack of ownership by the commanders, etc. And what is very important, and what was the Professor talking about? Because limited companies are a very large number of family companies, in which we ensure safe entry into business for family members. It was raining here that we wanted them to be companies from O.O., because if the owner not of a limited liability company, only the business carried out as a single-member company dies, then there are problems. So that many of the issues that emerged today during this discussion are solved, among others. limited partnership. Finally, the professor said that he proposed to reject what concerns the limited partnership in its entirety. National Tax Advisory Council. Here, too, there were arguments about support, i.e. that the government has sufficient instruments for tax enforcement, that it is not necessary to punish limited companies simply because some percentage of people avoid paying taxes. I'll tell you. This is my comment, which is not the opinion of the committee. That it's like we know that a one-way street's been going in, in, in and out like we can't handle it, and we'd think the solution is to shut this street down. If we close, he won't come in. And this is how you follow those people and the institutions that spoke about it. What's the problem? Not exactly identified according to these persons It is best for you to introduce an additional tax. As far as tax advisors are concerned, there's been such a voice that... it's basically about these records. Mostly we support what this bill brings, although there is one more issue here besides limited companies. Namely, the Act prevents the settlement of losses arising before the date of entry into force of the Act. Then I will go to the association of Polish lawyers. Well, I'll quote a few sentences. The project is unthinkable in the field of limited partnership companies and will hit the free competition. And now we come to an issue that raises the biggest dispute. Namely, according to the documents that were sent to the committee that came to us and which were the subject of the sitting, after the introduction of this law, which we are talking about here today, taxes will increase by 29 At the end of the speeches of the people who were invited to this meeting, the employee also appeared... He wasn't a professor anymore. He was a second employee at the University of Łódź. I'm just going to quote one passage. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the same doctor has made such a statement. Is tax justice when a taxpayer pays 2 taxes, PIT and CIT for the same activity? After the introduction of the tax of the entire limited partnership, this condition will be met. Well, it's, to put it mildly, too heavy a burden. I don't want to use other words anymore, but it's about the introduction of this tax. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the senators were also very active during the discussion. I also want to say that I asked for some analysis. Well, the biggest dispute was whether, after the introduction of this tax, I'm talking about limited companies, the shareholders of such a company will pay higher or lower taxes. The day before, I received an analysis from your director. Unfortunately, it was late, so I didn't get to know her. It shows that there will be no increase in taxes. Nevertheless, everyone else, starting with the people concerned, through all kinds of organisations and social partners, and ending with our legislator, has made it clear that taxpayers will pay higher taxes. I would like to say that the senators have also tabled amendments. The total number of amendments that were tabled at the committee meeting shall be 37. As I said, the purely legislative amendments were mostly supported by the Minister. There was also one amendment that we withdrew together with Senator Kleina. It's a sign of our openness. We've withdrawn it, Minister. We did not report it, as the Minister asked, and today we do not intend to report it, even though we have doubts about the constitutionality of these amendments. Well, we listened to what the Minister said. These are amendments which have a positive impact on issues related to COVID. The sectors concerned have been mentioned. We felt that we would withdraw this amendment, since the amendments introduced during the parliamentary debate were more favourable to taxpayers. At the same time, I would like to say that these amendments... I'll just say a few of them. Senator Frankiewicz, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, has tabled an amendment to compensate local governments for the loss of income due to the increase in quotas or the limit for lump sums and lower taxes, and this has been voted out by the committee. Senator Klein and I have proposed to remove the entire division related to the taxation of limited companies and the committee has accepted it. The issue of abolition has also been raised by us as an element to be deleted and the committee has welcomed the deletion of the abolition exemption from that law. Excessive reporting. It was suggested by entrepreneurs that the Act imposes an increased burden on reporting. This deletion was also proposed by Senator Kleina and myself and was also accepted. Senator Bierecki has filed regulations detailing this bill. Some of them were accepted, some were not accepted, but Senator Frost reported them as minority requests. And these were the main changes to the government's submission that the committee had proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Czarnobaj presented the proceedings of the committee in quite detail. This meeting lasted for a very long time, held in two parts. In the first, very many people actually spoke, and spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and many stakeholders representing various organizations... What can I add after this detailed statement by Senator Czarnobaj... We, together with Mr Bierecki, have tabled a minority proposal for amendments to the Commission's amendments as the second, twelfth and thirteenth. Amendments 2nd, 12th and 13th were more precise, more detailed, synchronising with the provisions introducing CIT taxation for limited companies. At the time when the amendment which Mr Czarnobaj said was being amended, that all the provisions in the CIT Act were being deleted, those amendments by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki naturally became pointless. Well, as we crossed out the taxation of limited partnership companies, all the clarification and synchronization provisions have become pointless. We maintain this with President Bierecki, considering that our solutions will probably be rejected. Just one point. I don't know if she's gonna convince any of her colleagues against the government, most of the Senate... It would be necessary to assume such a far-reaching hypothesis that the amendments concerning the deletion of CIT tax on limited companies will be rejected in the Sejm and this will cause all the amendments that Mr Grzegorz Bierecki made to the Sejm, and so to put it, beneficially, after the introduction of CIT tax on limited companies will simply not enter into force. But I'm aware that politics and arithmetic are what it is. We will see, because I know that this issue, which is an essential issue in this law, namely the introduction of tax on limited partnership companies, is controversial in the business community, in the accounting community, in lawyers. Here, so to speak, the majority of the committee voted to delete this entry, which in fact... Well, after deleting this provision, the meaning of the law is de facto deleted, because it served these matters in principle. But that's the matter of the High Senate's decision. Mr Bierecki and I have tabled such a request from the minority and we will see how the High House will come to this. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u206	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. [[Please, the senator is ready to answer, I presume.]] [[Yes.]] I had five questions, but the Senator rapporteur discussed these matters very carefully, so I have one thing left, but very important. It concerns tax relief from rental revenue. [[Like what?]] It's from the lease. In rent taxes. Is the government deciding, Mr. Senator, to exempt from the taxation of revenue from buildings... We are talking primarily about shopping malls. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting or any analysis of the rules and scope of the reduction of the rent for the shops they employ today was already mentioned According to publicly available data, 200 000 employees? These are, above all, young people. What protective mechanisms does the government plan to put in place? Was there such a discussion? Has it been considered that the beneficiaries of the amendments to the Act are not only or almost exclusively wealthy economic operators, especially foreign ones, because they are owners of commercial areas or offices, but also a large number of Polish entrepreneurs renting these areas? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 22 of the amending act is to be said about this. There were those who rent... This is a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This thread was not discussed at the committee meeting at all; it was not raised by anybody. That's one thing. Second. When it comes to using only and exclusively the benefits of this law, I have the opposite not only impression, but also knowledge. This tax law, tax reduction, etc. to a large extent, or maybe in the main, you will already clarify this issue of PLN 7 billion for micro, small and medium-sized companies. We are talking here about raising the lump sum, reducing it from 19 to 9%. CIT etc. It's about the elements I was talking about, so I'm not going to repeat them again. However, the topic of large shops, rents, tax policy towards these shops was not the subject of the committee's work. I think the Minister... In my view, this also goes beyond what we are considering today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Robert Dowhan's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u209	Thank you very much. I have a question for one and the other Senator of the rapporteur. First question. Is it true that entrepreneurs and organizations, employers got five days to resign? It was said that the project appeared on 16 September and that by 21 September amendments could be tabled or a consultation deadline was set. That's my first question. And the second question is a question for Senator Mr. Frost. How do you know what the Seym will do? Because you said they'd certainly given back what Senator Bierecki was suggesting it might be good, but you know the Sejm will reject it. What makes you think that? Something doesn't feel right. Are you? so well informed, do you manage the votes, or do you have a counting machine? Well, that's a weird statement you made.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The question of opinions, conversations, arrangements, that sort of thing... I understand that COVID is causing some trouble. I will not judge this, I will quote what representatives of entrepreneurs and organizations who represented these entrepreneurs at this meeting: Thursday - I don't remember the date. We got a draft of this bill with a deadline to deliver an opinion by Monday. So you could say that Thursday, Friday, 2 working days was the time to make that opinion, because it must have affected it on Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already raised in my speech: what concerns the construction of tax law requires time, caution, discussion, dispute, moaning, analysis, etc., etc. It's not like I heard when I examined the previous bill when one of the senators said, "Well, what is it? We've lowered the stakes. Entrepreneurs say that's what you're asking Senator Dowhan. In addition to low rates, they want to influence what the biggest reservation applies to the entire tax system in Poland, and this is not a reservation indicated by the opposition. In the assessment of international institutions, the Polish tax system is not the worst, to say the least. I don't want to say if it's more preferential than in other countries or not. However, it is one of the last systems in terms of readability, transparency, transparency, etc., etc. I will quote not politicians in the debate, but international institutions that evaluate tax systems. And this is what I think comes from what you asked the senator: haste, haste, temporary, lack of a longer perspective on the effects of various kinds of changes. After all, this law in relation to e.g. to whether it's abolition relief, whether it's the taxes of the limited companies that make fundamental changes. Therefore, each of the taxpayers concerned It is not only a matter of the Court's decision that it should have heard about them earlier. And that was also in the Ombudsman's statement. Once again, I will confirm that this was a very important speech concerning discussions, discussions, etc. Mr. Spokesman said this: let's talk a lot, we have proposals, let's sit, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk and then a better product will come out. So that it was, Mr. Senator, a very short period, too short, practically none at all, unless there had been any other consultations before. Such words fell from the mouth of representatives of organizations, which bring together Polish entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u212	Thank you very much, Senator. Please ask me to ask you a question... Oh, I'm sorry, sir. You're still a senator. I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator. I didn't mean to push you off in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u213	There were, like, two questions here. I think Mr Czarnobaj has already answered one question. I am not able to precisely determine whether it was 4 days, whether it was 5 days for such formal comments, proposals. Perhaps so. However, the very idea of taxing limited companies with CIT... Well, it wasn't like he showed up in five days, he fell like a thunderstorm out of the blue, because that's what we talked about for at least a few weeks. There were even discussions in public space. Perhaps it was actually a formal comment that was... I didn't check it out. Even if it was at the committee meeting, I may have missed it. It was certainly not a long time. I would also agree with the President and with many entrepreneurs, and the Ombudsman also stressed that the introduction of this solution could be said, at the last minute in accordance with the rules and the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, because we should be able to fit in with changes in tax law by the end of November... And indeed, if this law is passed in some form in the Senate, then, as far as I know, on Friday there will be a sitting of the Sejm, at which the Senate's observations will possibly be considered, among others. Also for this bill. And then, of course, everything in the hands of the President, whether he wants to use 21 days to analyze the bill or sign it. It's hard for me to tell you what decision you're going to make with the president. And as for Senator Dowhan's second question, perhaps the senator didn't fully understand me. Namely, these 3 amendments, Nos 2, 12 and 13, which were tabled by Mr Bierecki and which were not even rejected... Because they were not rejected, they were not put to the vote at the time when the amendment by Senator Czarnobaj and Kleina was accepted by the committee, eliminating all the provisions on CIT taxation for limited companies from this submission. And since these amendments concerned this matter, as we threw it out of this law, these amendments were pointless. But I told you what's gonna happen in perspective. Well, Mr. Senator, if this bill, then the government's submission says that due to the sealing of the tax system, we propose to include the CIT of limited companies if this proposal finds a majority in the Sejm... This is at committee level in the Senate for now, but I assume that the committee's position will be maintained by the entire High House. That's when the Senate's opposition, which means the Senate's amendment... Not the amendment of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, but the amendment of Senators Kleina and Czarnobaj, who, once accepted by the High House, will return to the Sejm and be rejected there... Well, I suppose it will be rejected, because this amendment by Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Kleina had the negative opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the government. So I suspect the majority of the parliament behind the government And this majority of the Seym, contrary to appearances, is certain in the Seym It will reject the Senate's proposal in this regard. So we're going to go back to the original submission that came to us from the Sejm, i.e. the CIT tax on limited companies. Of course I make that assumption, but this assumption, I think, has a strong logical basis. And, therefore, those solutions which clarified the issues mentioned and which, for obvious reasons, could not have been voted out at the committee meeting, resulting from the amendments of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, will not be included in the bill. The question is what the government will do next. Is he gonna make a quick legislative path to bring it in, or is he gonna let it go? Well, here's the thing. Not to me. I think it's clear enough, logically, that I've made amendments to the government proposal, for which the majority of the Sejm has stood, that it's probably going to be... If we do it in the Senate, quote it very colloquially, maybe not so parliamentaryly, then it will return in the original version in which it came to us. That's the solution... Mr. Marshal Kaminski That's right, too. I hope it's so...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u214	Thank you. I agree with you, Senator. At least you proved to me that your prognosis isn't profetic, it's based on the senator's political analysis. I understand you've come to the same conclusion, Senator Dowhan... [[Thank you very much.]] ...what's a little fuzzy about our House, because we'd be convinced if you didn't convince us otherwise that you have a professional ability. [[I don't have any professional skills, Mr. Marshal, but I would like to say that many of the Sejm's amendments are accepted, so our work is needed.]] There's no way to disagree with the senator's attention. The next senator who asks the question will be no one else, and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask Senator Mroz about this case. How many companies among limited companies in Poland have foreign partners? And additional question: how many limited companies are completely in the hands of Polish entrepreneurs? You can either give absolute numbers or you can give a percentage of how convenient this information is to be presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u216	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u217	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, it's difficult for me to answer that question. I think the details are from the Ministry of Finance. I don't have the data you're asking for. I don't know if the Minister is prepared for such an answer. He nods his head that he is. I don't recall such data being reported during the debate either. Well, the debate was multi-faceted. -, multiple - for hours, so maybe that's what happened. Mr. Chairman, were those figures? We've been discussing something, but were there specific numbers... I can't say that by heart right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Robert Dowhan's next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u219	Thank you. I promise I won't take too much time, I'll leave some things to discuss. Senator Frost said it serves to seal the tax system. Can you describe the situation, tell me how many companies, I don't know, take out some assets, transfer funds? I'm asking for some evidence. Because what does it mean to seal the tax system? I think it's tight. There's a limited company, pays tax, pays VAT, pays employees' salaries. If someone is committing a crime, and you know it, then why are you directing all your anger at everyone and not eliminating those who are blowing up this system? If you have such examples, please specify.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u221	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, it's not a matter of someone being angry against someone. If someone didn't pay taxes, then we're just dealing with a crime. At this point, specific authorities of the National Tax Administration are pursuing such persons. We are talking about a formula of optimization, and optimization is in its idea that... [[Voice from the room: On optimization.]] It's not so illegal that someone doesn't pay taxes, that is, they use such legal solutions, e.g. as regards the form of business activity, the legal form, or adjusts, Mr. Senator, the kind of... [[Where's the leaking system? Don't tell me what's going on or what's going on. Where's the leaking system?]] [[But, Senator, I ask you to behave...]] ...the transaction, determines that it will make such a type of business transaction, and adjusts the legal and organisational form of the economic operator to this type of transaction. So it's not tax optimization, it's not like someone doesn't pay taxes, it's just moving... Perhaps otherwise: if he had not used such a legal and organisational form, he would have had to pay a higher tax. So to say, CIT is an important source of revenue for the budget. And tax optimisation also creates some kind of inequality in doing business. The government is trying to eliminate this issue, seeing that some operators, more and more economic operators, are using this form, this legal and organisational vehicle, because it is beneficial for them for tax reasons. We're just eliminating it. We're not saying that they, I don't know, are breaking the law, because they're using some kind of legal path. And now that the rules are in place, one of these paths will simply be closed. From 1 January 2021, if these provisions enter into force, it will simply not be possible to apply certain forms. I'm not accusing anyone here. I don't think the government is accusing anyone of breaking the law today. Well, if someone's breaking the law, it's completely different regulations in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u223	Thank you very much. I have a question for the rapporteur, Leszek Czarnobaj, about these last questions and the answers of the rapporteur Senator Mr Mr. These questions are very important and it cannot be that such questions are not answered or asked like: I don't know, the minister knows. Why? Well, of course, the rapporteur doesn't have to know everything, I don't have any comments to make about it, but, I understand that, and Mr. Senator, the club that you represent is declaring a vote in favour of these laws. Then you need to know what they're about. Clou's case according to the justification of the law, the government's justification... That is where it is said that the main reason for imposing new taxes, in this case even double taxation, is, first, the scale of crimes 'Cause that's the way it's supposed to be. Or abuse, big scale, second, issues concerning the transfer of money abroad, and thirdly... Since abroad, it is mainly foreign entities that are the shareholders of these limited companies or limited companies that are the source of all these misfortunes, pathology, money spills, etc. So you need to know this scale. Well, it can't be that we suspect that among, I don't know, 100,000 innocents Using the colloquialism of entrepreneurs is someone who does some abuse, so we put everyone in one bag and we want to punish double taxation, so to speak. I would like to ask, Mr. Senator, if I have good information that these companies are in total about 100 thousand And that those who have a foreign partner are 495. That's my number. So it's even less than 500 out of 45 grand. Few of these 500 round, 0.4% These are the companies you suspect of. As long as it doesn't prove it, it's a suspicion. There may be abuse of the principle of tax optimization of transfer. So we have 45,000 companies, 500 has a partner, and of these 500 against 0.4%. There are suspicions. But we're gonna take a fiscal stick and we're gonna hit everybody with that stick. Do I have good data, or am I wrong? Don't be embarrassed, I won't be angry if you correct the senator's humble knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. Do I understand correctly... To whom was this question addressed? [[It's for the senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The difference in our knowledge lies within the limits of statistical error. I say what the Professor said. And I think that's what the Minister said. The number of limited companies is 40,000. The senator says 45 grand. Well, it's a matter of where the data is being checked. What's going on... That's the diagnosis. The main source of money transfer is the participation of large foreign entities in limited companies. Whatever data we look at... As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Senator, you might want to correct that. This value shall not exceed 1%. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to quote here those who, on the problem of the activities of the limited companies, e.g. our professor from Łódź They ate their teeth. The introduction of CIT on limited partnership companies is such a thing as introducing an additional tax for all those who are engaged in business activities. It's more or less a maneuver. Even if there are elements here... the Minister and the Director have given examples of the fact that the wage components of almost zero, that the flows of this money... We don't know exactly what that is. The government estimates that the influence from sealing is PLN 2 billion. As I understand it, these are the proceeds from the entire project connected with the introduction of this bill, i.e. the abolition relief and the two companies that the senator mentioned. I'll repeat what those professors who know about it in the scientific sense said. I hope they also know each other in a practical way, as it is in life. Not only will there not be this money, but when the amount of taxes paid increases from 24 to 28, 29, it will cease to be an element of an attractive form of activity from a tax point of view at least. Once again, I would like to say to all those who say that optimization of activity is an element that every company must take into account. The point is not to buy expensive and buy cheap This is optimization. Such forms of taxation are chosen which are the best for companies that are legally and accessible on the tax market of the country in question from the point of view of functioning. And if the law is broken This was also discussed in the discussion. It is the government that has the tools in its hand to prosecute those who violate the tax laws. You shouldn't do that if one breaks the law, it's all the other dwarfs. Because this one's breaking the law? So that the number of those foreign entities to which the OSR refers for that law does not exceed 1%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. Another senator who asks the question will be Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz, who will do so remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u227	Senator Mroz's question, if you don't mind. Maybe I missed... I would ask for an answer on the revenue to the state budget due to the taxation of limited companies. What a specific amount is foreseen by the Ministry in respect of these receipts per year. Of course, they're estimated... I believe that these influences will be much smaller than the Ministry estimates, because taxpayers will choose other forms. In this respect, my question is: do you think it is fair, in your view, to make such changes just before the end of the tax year? The point is that surprised entrepreneurs, most often small and medium Polish entrepreneurs 'Cause they're mostly family companies... And you want to hit these very small family companies just before the end of the year. And even speaking of this optimization, you use the term aggressive optimization. And we're talking about the fact that every taxpayer has the right to choose how to tax. After all, these entrepreneurs will have no chance to choose another form of taxation, because they will be surprised by this change of law and some of them may simply not be able to withstand this increased taxation next year, because they also optimize their costs. So they're gonna go up because there's gonna be extra tax. Do you think that I repeat the question addressed to Senator Mroza that it is fair to make such changes just before the end of the year, surprisingly, when this will prevent entrepreneurs from changing their choice of tax treatment? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u228	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, my predecessor here spoke about these influences, of course, in total, of about PLN 2 billion. Will they come true? It's time to show, because these are all kinds of estimates. And as for the second aspect of your question, I confirm that we are making these changes quite late, but we are introducing them, of course, assuming that they can enter into force from 1 January on a legitimate date. Because the Constitutional Tribunal once, I no longer remember, in what year, ruled that changes in tax law must be adopted by the end of November. So we are not breaking any laws here and we are sticking to this case law of the Constitutional Court. And taxpayers will either enter this CIT system or they will be able to change the legal and organisational form of the company in December. It's not complicated, it's not expensive. So they will have 1 month to change the legal and organisational form in which they operate today if they do not want to operate from 1 January as part of new solutions. So they're either gonna stay with the consequences. on taxation in the formula of limited companies, with CIT taxation... Just remember that CIT is paid for profit - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So if there's no profit, there's no tax. In certain specific situations this solution may even be more tax-friendly - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Because let's remember that in the case of small companies, this CIT is 9%. Yeah, but it's up to you now... There will probably be situations where a higher tax will be paid, but there may be situations where a lower tax will be paid, as Senator Czarnobaj learned from the analysis and from the examples he asked for. And as far as I know, such theoretical examples have been sent to Senator Czarnobaj by e-mail. He was supposed to share it with us. And maybe there'll still be an opportunity for the committee to share, because I'd like to get to know it, too. In any event, the taxpayer will have a full choice: either stay in the current legal and organisational form and pay according to new rules, or change the legal and organisational form of the business carried out in December. Yes? And the transformation of the limited partnership is not complicated. I think even at the committee meeting there was some amount of that fee, but I wouldn't want to shoot it here... These are really quite fast processes, but very, very inexpensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u230	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Kwiatkowski to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u231	I have a question for the Senator rapporteur, Senator Blackobay. Or at the time Today in Poland, and all over the world, we are struggling with a pandemic, with the economic crisis, should legislation be introduced naturally aimed at raising taxes, rules which will force changes in the form of business activity? This all happens in difficult times for Polish entrepreneurs. In the course of this work, has the government presented any simulations of how many such changes will be and what will be the economic consequences? I mean the confusion that this will cause among Polish entrepreneurs. Well, the operation of the limited partnership will become completely uneconomical for many medium-sized and larger taxpayers, and this legal form is crucial in terms of building economic strength. We will be faced with the transition of smaller operators to one-man economic activity, to the form of a public partnership, which will allow them to obtain a one-off tax rate of 19%. and thus not be in a worse position than their foreign competitors. Larger entities will decide to operate in the form of a company z o.o., which in conjunction with a Polish holding company controlled by the owner... Well, that means the same dividend exemption as foreign entities. Did the government present at any stage of legislative work a simulation of what changes in the organizational structure of Polish companies, which are now limited companies, will trigger the proposed changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, we haven't seen such a simulation. That's one thing. Secondly, what Senator Frost also said here... I'm addressing Senator Mr. Frost. It's not that easy. It will not be so that someone sits on documents in December and in 1 day will change, from the limited partnership to the company of o.o. It doesn't work that way. Therefore, with regard to what Senator Kwiatkowski asked here, I believe that any kind of change in tax law is a result of the Court's ruling, which should take place through a peaceful discussion, in the long term and taking into account the analysis of the impact on the structure of companies. Well, it's about what it's gonna do to the company. I will give just one example quoted by various kinds of scientific groups, but also those who operate in business. Please note that the limited partnership will no longer be an attractive form in the tax market. It will be brought to this by a government that sees that someone does not pay taxes Let's say he doesn't pay, though I don't know who, how much or why. He says, "Now you're all going to pay more." And the limited partnership is in many areas the best and safest form of family business, family business, risk reduction, etc. Well, I'm not gonna tell you all this. We, this form, which is very promoted in many developed countries of Europe, are killing through a violent change of laws, and it is carried out without the simulation you asked for. Well, I don't know that kind of simulation. Maybe you can introduce her to the Minister. On the impact of this on, I would say, the tax structure of the Polish market.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u233	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u234	I'm sorry, I didn't know I was last. I'll address Senator Mr. Mr. Frost now that I've heard Senator Czarnobaj's answer. Doesn't the Senator rapporteur have the impression that, in this case, we are dealing with such a situation that... let's just say that we see that there may have been irregularities in some small extent of the activity of the limited limited partnership. Don't you feel like this looks a little weird? When the cars arrived, the first car accidents began to occur. Well, according to this philosophy, we should eliminate cars instead of introducing seat belts or lighting for these cars. Do you agree with the philosophy that is contained in this bill, and which assumes that instead of sealing... Well, you guys aren't really sealing anything, you're just eliminating the organizational form, because that's the consequence of the proposed regulations. Do you share the philosophy behind the changes proposed here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u235	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, I have to say, this comparison, it's cool even, which you've offered here... I'm the only one who's a car fan, so... I'm just wondering how to answer that. Please note that exports of limited partnership companies, o.o. companies. Kommandit is a consequence of certain legal regulations. And if now, as you yourself have said, it does not pay off the same business, the same business, with the assumed profit, only because of the legal and organisational form, and thus I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, that's what shows the best reason to change it. Because this profit, this cost-effectiveness of doing business does not result from market conditions, but results from a specific legal and organisational form, which entails a certain form of possibility of paying legal, compatible taxes. And if we now come to the conclusion that this legal and organisational form, so to speak, distorts some competition in the case of people who do the same business differently, for example. in the company of O.O., the one who runs the company of O.O. The commando and, as I say, he's doing the same thing, he's already got another final result after paying his taxes. You'd have to synchronize that, right? However, operating in the form of a company in the form of o.o. whether the public limited liability company is this basic form of business activity. I know that the limited partnership has some kind of pros, as Senator Czarnobaj was talking about here. Not a theory at all. You are, Senator, a lawyer, so you know the difference between the partners. They in certain situations are very important, very important. But it's been warped a little bit, right? Because today, a limited partnership is set up to move forward in different tax solutions, right? And of course, if this is a legal option, entrepreneurs are looking for such solutions. And we thought it would be worth a change here. I agree that the result of this change will be a drastic decrease in the number of limited partnership companies, which were created only for this purpose, to exploit tax solutions which today are legal and give such an opportunity. Because here we are not talking about actions that are not legal. Thus, those economic operators which only have this form for tax purposes are likely to be transformed. 'Cause if someone's running a business, I don't think they're gonna kill him. But according to the Commercial Companies Code... those who prefer a limited partnership because of, let's say, the objectives of legal solutions that exclude the liability of certain businessmen will remain the solution. Yes? And those who have preferred this form only for tax reasons will probably transform it quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u237	I have a question... [[Voice from the room: I would ask...]] May I? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, of course.]] I've taken these explanations into account, and I have this question... Two questions, actually. [[It's for me, isn't it?]] Yes, it's for you. First question, Mr. Senator: how many such commando companies have you ever dealt with in your economic life? That's my first question. And my second question. Given your reasoning, I assume that it will then be the taxation of the CIT of partner companies and then the elimination of the 19-percent tax for those engaged in business activities. Because it is more beneficial and it is also competitive with the companies that have to pay CIT. That's what you said. Could you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u238	I personally know 1 person or 2 persons who operate in the form of a limited partnership. It's in response to your Marshal's question. Will there be any other changes in the future? That's what the Ministry of Finance would have to ask. So far, we have been dealing with a situation where we have put in place solutions that are beneficial for businesses, including the reduction of CIT to 9%, which is a very, very beneficial form of taxation. So some even formed companies to enter into the 9 percent CIT. So even these would be solutions in the opposite direction in which you suggested the marshal. We have a very... Even Senator Czarnobaj said I think it's gone that these tax rates against solutions in different countries of the European Union, in particular solutions in the so-called. old countries e.g. in Germany or France, they are very competitive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u239	Let me ask you this: do you think that the costs of running a capital company in relation to running a personal company are lower, since they are so attractive and so many people are founded by limited liability companies? Do you know if the costs of running a partnership are lower than the costs of running a capital company or not? [[Well, Mrs. Marshal...]] It's about legal costs, legal and accounting costs, just as a normal business, without any excessive investment. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u240	But, Mrs. Marshal... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I have such a simple question.]] Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm gonna answer the question you're asking because you're trying to suggest an answer. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian Stanecka: No. I'm just asking. I'm curious.]] Mrs. Marshal, everyone chooses such a form of activity to be the most beneficial to him. And to some extent carrying out business activity the company z o.o. it works, to some extent, one-man economic activity is working, to some extent the open company is working. We in general would like to This is the government's desire, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said. For more and more commercial law companies to be established. What does this mean if commercial law companies are formed? That means that this business is growing. It does not generally pay off with a small scale of business activity immediately forming companies, even though the creation of this company involves small capital. If companies grow, even for their safety reasons, it would be worth putting this business into a company governed by commercial law, or in a company governed by law. That's probably gonna happen in most cases, because it's easier to do it. In order not to be held liable, or later in a public limited company, do not take the risk of all of its assets. But there were other examples. There was an entrepreneur who carried out a very large business activity, and had a large turnover and had more than 300 employees or more than 300 employees under his name. And there were a lot of problems... Well, if anything had happened to this man, don't let him die, Lord God, this company would have stopped functioning. If we have an activity in the form of a company, regardless of what happens to shareholders, this activity is continued. So there are different situations. Of course, everyone looks at tax obligations. Running a company with the o.o. is, of course, related to the keeping of full accounting. So it's something for something, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u241	But I asked a specific question: do you know what form of activity is for a taxpayer, for a person who conducts business, more expensive?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u242	But this question cannot be clearly answered because it depends on the objectives achieved. In one case, one form may pay off, another may pay more to achieve more in the longer term. If your marshal could be more specific... I understand you have a theory, but I don't know it. You want me to confirm that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian Stanecka: No. I'm just asking a question.]] In the form of a question, your Marshal confirms some theory. [[Voice from the room: In writing...]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I'm just asking a question to find out what your goals are...]] Does your marshal want to give me an example that something's going to be better or worse? [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: No, I want to know what purpose...]] Perhaps your marshal will tell me that and it will be easier for me to relate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u243	No, I just wanted to know from you what the real purpose is, because a lot of senators don't see the point. That's why I'm asking you this question. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej. [[Me or...]] Senator Aleksander Pociej It's remote. [[Can you hear me?]] Yes, sir, you can hear the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u244	Thank you. I would like to refer to what the senator, the marshal, was talking about, because every company... Excuse me, there's a terrible reverb. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: To whom do you ask, if you could still...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator Mroz.]] Senator Mroz... But it doesn't change the fact that I have a reverb that the sound keeps coming back in some weird way. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: But we hear the senator.]] Good. Each company, starting with a public limited liability company, which is primarily responsible for raising capital and ending with a limited liability company, which on the one hand allows for raising capital and, on the other hand, for closer action, i.e. Such more personal partners, but without the ability to act directly with these partners, have some tasks. They were all created by accident. And the limited partnership is an intermediate. I would like to ask Senator Mroz, who so much supports these solutions, whether he knows what is different from the second partner, the commandant. On what basis? They're in the company? Why are there two types of partners? What is their taxation and responsibility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u245	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, I could say it wasn't the committee's work. The solutions can be supported or not supported. The senator may support them, he may not support them. You're a lawyer, so you know these kinds of accomplices. One of the entities fully corresponds to its assets in the limited partnership, corresponds to all its assets and the other has the liability excluded. This is generally the difference between a partner and a commandant. But I don't think questioning me from this is the best form. But if you want to do this, I'm going to say that the difference is more or less that one has no responsibility for all its assets for the company's liabilities, and the other is responsible for that. That's the difference between a partner and a commandant, generally speaking. This company, of course, has its various advantages and therefore we do not change the Commercial Companies Code and we do not terminate the limited partnership. We're just saying we're eliminating a certain tax preference. If someone from other tax purposes wants to create this company, where someone wants to take responsibility, and someone else doesn't want to take responsibility, and thinks that a limited partnership is the best form of doing business, then the company will be able to continue doing so. And if someone wants to run a limited partnership just to have certain tax benefits, it probably won't be worth it with these legal arrangements. And those limited companies, which only take this legal and organisational form for tax reasons, will certainly be transformed, because if someone is running a business, it is difficult for them to shut down their business for such reasons immediately. In addition, the Minister said at the committee meeting that we expect a decrease in the number of limited companies and that they would be transformed into other forms of business. I suspect that as a dominant form here the form of limited liability company will be chosen primarily. However, there is no obligation, we are introducing an option. If anyone wants to continue to function like this, they will. One more thought slipped through my head in the middle of a discussion. We're talking about foreign entities. Well, first of all, it is the large economic operators that foreign multinationals have used the form of a limited partnership, because it ensures that funds are easily carried out abroad in accordance with the law. However, we have quite large transfers of profits abroad, so the state is looking for ways to ensure that taxes are paid primarily where revenues are generated, where revenues are generated. The first example was the United Kingdom, as well as Ireland, where international companies that have a very complex network of links were not allowed to pay less taxes than they should pay, through various types of tax havens, through various types of legal and organisational vehicles. On a scale We eliminate it. We do not eliminate at all, Senator, we do not touch the Commercial Companies Code. If anyone wants to run a limited partnership, they can run it. The change concerned certain tax arrangements. Of course, they can and will result in the fact that one form or another will be preferred by economic operators, while you, as a lawyer, know that if you want to get yourself a limited partnership on 3 January, you will be able to set up and run such a company, even as a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u247	Thank you very much. I'm still... Senator Kwiatkowski is about to ask your senator, but I would like to ask you a question, too. You said foreign partners. According to this law, will the foreign partner pay the tax or not? Then you're Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u248	Will he pay the tax... If there are tax conditions, he will, of course, pay the tax. If he shows that he has income to tax, then... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Will he pay? The one who's based abroad will be paying taxes?]] Well, you know... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Associate.]] Please? [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: According to you, he will pay.]] Yeah, that's what we want him to pay the tax. That's the goal of not being able to avoid paying. Some very large companies I don't want to name names, e.g. Publishing companies have moved on to this form. Well, not only publishing, but it's the easiest thing to see, because somewhere in the footer, you can see who's the publisher, so this legal and organizational form is obvious. After all, no one changed this form just because he wanted to change himself, just because he saw that it was paying him more tax. And again... I don't know if you don't want to accept this philosophy, because we're asking about philosophy here. It's not like we're forcing anyone, and we're not talking about the fact that today, those who run commando companies are some crooks, criminals who need to be prosecuted, as one of the senators was trying to suggest here. I'm looking at Senator Kwiatkowski, but I'm not sure if he's Senator Kwiatkowski or anybody else, and somehow you're stuck with me. We're not accusing anyone of anything here. We say we're shutting down a certain, not even an opportunity, just... We say that, in connection with the operation of such an economic operator, in the form of a limited partnership, one has to face the fact that there will still be a payment of CIT. Sometimes this CIT will be very small, because 9-procent, the lowest in the European Union. Well, accountants are probably going to be wondering what's going to be more beneficial for taxpayers in a given kind of business. So we suck. We do not eliminate anything, we do not prohibit doing business in this form. However, there is one thing I can agree with you on if you would like it so badly. I've said more or less about it, but maybe I haven't stressed it enough, I can strengthen it. Although we are doing all of this in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling on deadlines, if this time were extended, it would probably be better. So that's what I can say. Let us remember, however, when we are talking about tax matters here, that in our country the tax year is the same as the calendar year, and it is not so in every country, so the formal tax transformations would be done as of 1 January. This would be the easiest way for economic operators to synchronize. Well, of course, if we had passed it in September, it would have been better. If the Senate meeting were called a little quicker, then... You can say that, too. Taxpayers would have more time. But I agree that if there was more time and we would have adopted these solutions sooner, it probably would have been better for economic operators. Although I do not suspect that this will change the opinion of the Senators of the Civic Platform. But that's just my presumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u249	Mr. Senator, stay here because Senator Kwiatkowski wants to ask you a question. Remember, not only are the Senators of the Civic Platform here. [[Excuse me, senators of the Senate.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u250	Mr. Senator, it's come to my attention that we have to save you... [[Because?]] I'm not kidding. If you're saying that the philosophy of these changes is to eliminate a privileged position, then I don't know if you know what you're going to do next. To favour limited companies with the participation of a foreign owner. Why? The proposed change does not affect the level of taxation developed by foreign business in Poland at all, because under international law these companies will continue to pay 19%. That's if there's a foreign owner. However, in the case of limited companies where you have Polish owners, the tax will increase from 19% or 23% Because there's still a 34 percent solidarity tribute. Let's save this so you don't get charged in some extremely right-wing or left-wing journals that you prefer foreign capital. We want to prefer... We do not want to distinguish between taxpayers at all, but while we are talking about it... The result of the solutions you are proposing will be the preference of foreign capital, which will remain at the current level of taxation, and in relation to Polish capital there will be a radical increase in taxation. Maybe you didn't want it, but it worked out that way. So please think about it. Do you agree with this philosophy of preferring foreign capital? It's to end with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u251	I don't agree with that philosophy. According to European Union legislation, we cannot prefer something because of who owns it. Well, that's what we have in the European Union. So there can't be... Just as we cannot prefer Polish taxpayers, neither can we prefer foreign taxpayers. But we're talking about making these profits abroad. And, of course, if someone owns a foreign company, then that profit is transferred there to their home country, right? And here, well, we want these tax solutions through CIT to be. Of course, if someone catches up with a small scale of activity for a 90% tax, whether it is foreign capital or domestic capital, they will pay the same tax rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u252	Thank you very much. And one more question. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz would like to ask remotely. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u253	From the other room, not remotely. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I don't want to bully Mr. Mr. Frost anymore, but unfortunately I do. I'm gonna have to ask you a few more questions, though, to be honest, it's a little too bad for the senator. But still. I, in relation to Senator Kwiatkowski's statement, would like to make a clear point 'Cause maybe the senator doesn't know it, maybe you don't know it. That foreign entities are exempt from... I mean. dividends... here it is... the dividends paid are exempt from tax. For this to sound, what Senator Kwiatkowski said, I will repeat: Polish taxpayer will pay tax, foreign will not pay. Just so we're clear. Now I have a question for Senator Mroz, so specific. Do you know what year the commando companies have been operating? That's the first question. In what year have the regulations been implemented and since when have these commando companies been operating? It's a little bit about what Senator Frost said, denying himself. 'Cause you said the number of commando companies set up increased. Okay, that's true. But this is also due to economic development, from many factors. The state introduced this tax to which you boast, these 9% , you lowered CIT and somehow there was no excavation and transfer from limited companies to o.o. companies. So, as I understand it, this tax reduction didn't work. However, the commando companies have been operating so far. Because you know very well that commando companies were created primarily to secure private property. How did the business... I've been driving for 17 years. Only that there were times when there were no limited companies and many companies lost all their assets, many family companies. And this is the form. security of assets, inheritance opportunities, etc. Two billion... There was the amount that was planned, the government was counting on in connection with this tax. On the other hand, Senator Frozz later said that many companies would change their business form. So this 1 billion 700 million PLN is very, very illusory. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask...]] I'm almost done. I'm done. Now the question is that the end of the year... the time for this bill to be passed is very, very bad. I'm just going to read a very brief statement from one of the entrepreneurs, because she's very important to get to Senator Mroz. Many limited companies benefited from financial subsidies due to the decline in pre-pandemic turnover. One of the applicable conditions of the grant agreement was the maintenance of the company for a minimum period of one year after the grant was granted, under the strict repayment of the subsidy with interest. So we have a curiosity situation. First, the government is giving us a lockdown, we have a drastic decline in GDP, a breakdown in demand for new investments, for our services, we've asked for alms from the government that the government was so proud of, in the form of financial subsidies, and now the government is forcing us to pay back subsidies with interest due to the closure of a company caused by draconian, super-surprising taxes. It is the spitting of entrepreneurs in the face and the extermination of Polish small and medium-sized business. Mr. Senator, do you feel this responsibility? Surprised companies can't stand this tax burden. 'Cause it's not like the companies put the money away somewhere. These companies also optimized their costs. And today, unfortunately, they will face the need to decide whether to change the form of activity or to return the subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I don't feel particularly abused. I say this in the context of Senator Tyszkiewicz's statement You're either tired or you're tired. Even to be honest, I like to stand here on a platform and take a little look at this perspective... But seriously... Question... Well, I could ask you a question, of course... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, answer me now. You're welcome.]] But, Mrs. Marshal... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: These are not questions...]] No, no. But, Mrs. Marshal, for God's sake, this is my time, I don't... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Answer.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Good. I could say, of course, that the question is whether I know what year the commando companies have been operating... and that I'm going to make a mistake... Well, it wasn't the subject of a committee meeting, a report, and even my report concerns a very detailed thread, because it's a minority report. When I graduated from the economic academy 'cause I was still finishing the economic academy 'cause of course the companies were and I suspect that since the early 1990s this legal and organizational form has been functioning. When it was in the Polish People's Republic, it was because of age I do not know, but I suspect that there were no big opportunities for such companies to run... Perhaps in the prewar code there was such a form. Since it is Senator Tyszkiewicz's interest, I have applied such a deduction, for sympathy to the senator, I may ask that question, so to speak, not to answer... Well, it is. When I graduated from the economic academy and worked in different places, of course this legal and organizational form was, so I suspect that it was just since the 1990s that they were definitely... And they'll still be there, Mr. Senator. On 4 January, 8 February 2021, the limited companies will continue to operate. If Senator Tyszkiewicz ever wants to return to his business and choose this form, he will be able to continue it in this form of business. There was another question, but to be honest, I was so caught up in the company date that I somehow missed it because I didn't have a pen and I didn't ask... So if Senator Tyszkiewicz could... [[I'll remind you.]] ...to remind you of that second question, I'll also let you answer it. [[Mr. Senator...]] And I'm sorry I missed it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u256	Mr. Senator, my question was whether or not you were denying yourself. For whether the increase in the number of limited companies that took place, I believe that for many reasons, among others. because of economic growth The fact that this form of taxation should be so attractive that everyone should have moved from the limited partnership to the limited liability companies long ago.? They didn't do it. So you denied yourself. And I would also ask you to answer my question about what I told you earlier. Companies that have been surprised by COVID will now consider what choice they have. These companies have no income. They would have to change the legal form from a limited partnership to another, but then they would have to return the subsidy they received from the State in connection with COVID. Isn't there a contradiction here? Don't you think it's immoral? This is a hit on companies that are currently experiencing a huge crisis related to COVID and are still forced to make a choice: either the return of subsidies due to the change of form, because you cannot change form within a year, or bankruptcy, because they cannot withstand this burden. It's related to that term. It's immoral. Do you think it is moral to put entrepreneurs, especially Polish small family companies, before such a dilemma? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u257	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u258	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't want to go into that kind of verbal semantics, moral, immoral, because it's not, I think, a question of that kind. Of course, due to the pandemic many economic operators, regardless of their legal and organisational form, have problems. In a moment, well, we have a few more points, we will be thinking about Shield 6.0, how to help Polish entrepreneurs. Companies have different legal and organisational forms. It's mostly hotels... I don't know if hotelers most often use the form of limited partnership companies, perhaps in some small percentage it will happen. I think it's more industry or after PKD... The Minister nods his head that he has such information. In any case, I do not think that this legal and organisational form is the dominant form at the time of receiving Shield 6.0 which we want to help Polish entrepreneurs. But let us remember that if someone's business collapsed as a result of the COVID pandemic, then there is no way that, so to speak, it will not help him, and here he can count on, if of course he meets the requirements for industry aid, for support, because in this autumn form of aid to Polish entrepreneurs we have assumed that we are already helping, so to speak, very selectively, we help those who actually require this assistance, meet certain requirements, e.g. the decrease in revenue must be at least 40% compared to the same period last year. As far as this 9% CIT is concerned, you know, the tax rate alone is not a decisive argument for starting a business in one legal and organisational form or another. The tax system is more complicated and not the tax rate itself... Well, I haven't heard any entrepreneurs complain that they pay 90% CIT, and I know a lot of entrepreneurs who are very proud of the tax reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u259	Thank you very much. That's where we ran out of questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I can see the minister heading for the speaker. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] No? Oh, no. But I see a minister heading for the speaker. Minister Sarnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u260	I would, of course, like to answer your senators' questions, but first, maybe a few words explaining what we really want in this bill. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this law is to improve the health of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in a particularly difficult situation due to COVID. These are those companies that lose, which are lost as a result of the freezing of the economy, as a result of the weaker economic situation, also as a result of instability in the market, and they need very specific things, 3 things that this law will give them. Firstly, they need low taxes, those that will allow them to create financial safety cushions and invest when there is a chance. Hence broadening the use of the 90% CIT rate, thus also extending the use of flat-rate forms of taxation for single-person business activities. In total, both of these tools introduced in the current law will result in a reduction of tax burden of about PLN 1.4 billion per year. Secondly, these companies need security, maximum simplicity of settlement, so that the performance of tax duties takes as little time as possible and creates as little risks as possible, also in contact with the tax administration. Therefore, Estonian CIT, which we propose in the previous project, is also an extension of the use of lump sum settlements, which for the first time in history will be able to benefit as many as 180 000 taxpayers who were previously excluded from this method of settlement. Thirdly, companies need a level playing field. Let us remember that, at a time of economic slowdown, in a time of increased competition between companies for market space, it is crucial that these smaller companies, those which are particularly hard to freeze the economy and slow down, have a level playing field with larger players. It is the big market players who have the most opportunities to save money on taxes. The fight against tax avoidance by larger companies is particularly urgent right now, because these larger companies push the smaller ones out of the market. They are also helped by the competitive advantage achieved by savings on taxes that are completely unavailable to smaller businesses. And I would like to stress very strongly that there are two elements in this project that we are talking about today. Firstly, this is an unprecedented tax reduction. In all, as a result, in the pockets of smaller companies will remain If the Estonian system adds up to more than PLN 7 billion. About 1/4 of the costs of these reductions will be covered as a result of tax sealing proposals, primarily to combat tax evasion in Poland, to bring income abroad to tax havens. But these are also solutions that serve to combat tax avoidance simply on an ongoing basis in Poland, with us, inside. About 400 000 companies will benefit from the changes next year, and it is the small ones for whom the tax reduction and level playing field will either be or not in the fight to stay on the market. Like I said, when we prevent companies from aggressive optimizing, we even up the odds. The proposals presented in the project are not an experiment, they are an equation for pellets, because we are implementing solutions that have been proven in most European countries, solutions that have been operating there for many years and are, in fact, a standard of civilized tax regulation. In total, the implementation of the package of sealing changes presented today will bring more than 2 billion budgetary revenues, as regards what will remain in the pockets of small business, this is the 1/4 of the cost of our today's reductions and will result in a decrease in the CIT gap from year to year by about 10%. These are the measures that will remain in Poland and which will serve directly by reducing taxes to the smallest business that most needs this support. There are a lot of questions here. I expect that they will also be addressed to me, so that they can also be addressed from the Ministry of Finance level, but I would like to start by discussing at least one subject a little more widely, namely the issue of limited partnership companies. Well, we move here all the time as part of a fiction and a certain misunderstanding of the subject. I would like to stress one thing very strongly: we are not introducing a tax increase for limited companies, but we are introducing a tax reduction for a large majority of limited companies. The limited partnership is such a special kind of business that was designed at the end of the 19th century as a way of bringing together 2 types of people: firstly, a man who has an idea for business, but lacks capital, and secondly, an investor who does not want to risk his assets in the event of a possible failure of business, but who wants to put some funds into the business and then share a profit with the person who runs the business. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a limited partnership. It is clear that this investor or even an entity operating may take the form not only of a natural person but also of a capital company, e.g. limited liability companies. However, the existence of such regulation has led to some abuse in recent years, and this abuse has already been identified in 2013. What is this abuse? This abuse is based on the creation of a construction called a limited liability company as a partner of a limited partnership, in which the commander is an entrepreneur, and the partner is a limited liability company, which is wholly owned by him. The result is that, when choosing this form of business, the trader achieves the same economic effect as in the case of a limited liability company, i.e. the total exemption from liability for a possible business failure, while being taxed as the personal company booked for it. This is a phenomenon identified 7 years ago. At that time on a massive scale... maybe otherwise: large-scale use of limited-liability companies. The seal implementation project, as far as this one particular category of limited companies is concerned, was also raised at the time, and unfortunately it was abandoned, arguing that it was not that it was stupid... I agree, double taxation of the limited partnership is a stupid idea. I'll tell you more, the stupid idea is double taxation of a limited liability company because she's a partner of a limited liability company. But when the situation of the limited liability company and the limited liability company covered by the limited partnership is the same economically identical, because the limited liability company's shareholder is the same person acting either as an investor or as the owner of a limited liability company, which is its shareholder... This is a phenomenon which has never, at any stage, been considered desirable by the tax legislator or by the tax administration, is not the result of the provisions of tax law which introduced a concession for this particular category of entities. As far as the scale of this phenomenon is concerned, here's what I'm going to say. I confirm that there are now 40,000 limited companies in Poland, of which 2 000 300 have foreign shareholders. And here there is a problem practically identical to that of public companies, namely it is very difficult to find these shareholders specifically, especially if they are persons, I apologize, personal companies registered in tax havens, because those countries are not obliged to inform Poland about these shareholders. So that when it comes to these over 2,000 entities, it's very difficult to tax shareholders because we just don't know them. But that's the margin, that's, like I said, 2,000 300 companies out of 40,000. In addition, there are more than 14 thousand companies, actually between 14 and 16 thousand companies, depending on where we get data from companies that, by presenting themselves, acting as a limited liability company as a limited partnership, have arranged relations between shareholders in such a way that they are, in fact, limited liability companies in an economic sense, simply. And here is the question of whether, in relation to 13 000 entities, more or less, the National Tax Administration should start proceedings, prove that there is no economic, other than tax, justification for this particular form of activity, or whether, on the contrary, it should cut off, let the past remain in the past, and introduce a regulation that will bring about equalisation of those two identical in terms of the economic effect, the categories of taxpayers. And this is the path that the National Tax Administration has asked us to do and which we have proposed. we as the legislative pawn of the Ministry of Finance, which has been accepted by Parliament. And now: how do we want to achieve this? In two steps, in a special way, protecting the rest of the limited companies. The State raised here a very interesting argument that it is not possible to punish everyone because some of them are doing something wrong. Full agreement, and that's exactly what we're doing. Given the fact that things are going to change and that companies are going to have to get used to it, even those whose taxes are not going to increase, we have made sure that their taxation is even slightly reduced so that this change in the way they settle is made easier for them. So that in the case of companies in which there is no link between two shareholders, just the commander and the partner, the effective tax rate will not only not increase but will fall, both at the stage of the partner, which will deduct the tax paid by the company on its tax, as well as at the stage of the commander who will apply what we called the tax-free amount. Moreover, the implementation of CIT for limited companies will have a very positive effect on them as regards the specific covid situation now. Why? Up to 75% now operating limited partnership companies are companies that can be identified, can be defined from 1 January as so-called. a small CIT taxpayer. What does that mean? This means that a tax rate of nine per cent applies to them. What is the consequence of this? To date, the limited partnership companies, both those really commandite and limited liability companies covered by the limited partnership, mostly paid 19% PIT. Now, if companies do not pay a profit, and it is known that the profit is not being paid now, for such a simple reason that the key issue now is simply liquidity, possibly maintaining the investment opportunities of companies, because we are living in a covid situation where liquidity is really a key argument and a key element to remain on the market, they will pay a tax of not 19 percent and a tax of 9 percent, i.e. more than half lower. In the case of a large majority of limited partnership companies, i.e. those where the limited liability company formula does not apply as a partner and the special link between the limited partner and the partner, the reduction will also apply to the moment of dividend payment, as I mentioned to you. So that, by the end of the speech, I would like to add that it is probably only necessary for me to ask you to be involved also in the process of informing about the nature of the changes of entrepreneurs, because also by some informational noise, by misunderstanding of the subject, despite the very large efforts of the Ministry of Finance, the consequences of this solution remain simply incomprehensible. Let me stress one thing in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, here we can ask what kind of vacathio legis to introduce when to implement this sealing change... We are actually dealing with 13 thousand companies whose taxation may increase, but we should remember about one key issue, namely we must choose a political decision between the support of 13 000 companies to whom we will give the opportunity to transform, change the form of business, can verify whether they still want to act in this form, which is in fact a form of limited liability company... On the other hand, we have 13,000... 40 minus 13 is 27... So we have 27,000 limited liability companies that really do not abuse the law to benefit from this way of taxation, and which must compete with those companies in which there is no liability of a partner at any stage; we have economically identical limited liability companies competing with them, which are 200 000 and not 13; and we have one-man business activity which is now in Poland, if I remember correctly, more than 2 million, they pay the same tax as a limited liability company, like a limited liability company's partner with a specific link between the limited liability company and a partner, and I am responsible for any business failure, which makes their investment activities as well as their tendency to take risks, and therefore their competitiveness are significantly less. Yeah, well... Maybe one more comment on the vacathio legis and the deadline for implementing it. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2013 it was known that such tools, such a business formula, meant very risky activities. Here, one of your senators asked the question: since the company z.o.o., the limited partnership is such an attractive form because it pays 0% CIT, being a de facto limited liability company, why didn't all companies move into this form? Why should they pay 19%? , why pay 9% if they can pay 0% It's true, isn't it? They could choose that. But they didn't move. Why? Because they knew the risks involved, because already in 2013, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the predecessors of the National Tax Administration, gave a clear signal to the market that this is simply a dangerous solution that could cause controversy in contact with the administration. Why did we decide to make this change now? For three reasons, really. The first reason, of course, is the COVID, which is the increase in competition between smaller and larger players. And let's remember that this form we're talking about... Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about family businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, but it is not the smallest business, unfortunately. These are the companies that stand I'm here to answer your Marshal's question. In order to pay for the costs and limited liability companies and limited liability companies at the same time, and the limited liability company, this is because an entrepreneur who wants to cover a limited liability company has to pay 2 accounts in fact, because it has a double amount of formalities. It can therefore be said that the tax savings are also used by the accountant, tax advisors, who are engaged in the day-to-day operation of this complex and so expensive construction, that it is very difficult, so to say, to be implemented by a smaller business that can simply not afford it. And back to the matter of why now... once: COVID. Two: MDR. Ladies and gentlemen, for 2 years the Ministry of Finance has been getting information about tax schemes, they are reported by entrepreneurs, and the Department of Key Interests, which analyzes these documents, has provided us with information about a very large scale of application of this form of activity, as we have We later confirmed, by examining data from the National Court Register, just for a dozen or so thousands of entities for which certain actions would have to be initiated. Is that what we want? No. Do we want to tax them a few years back? No. We want to change the rules so as to bridge the gap they are now enjoying, in breach of competition rules. Finally, the Department of Control has notified us of several cases that have been conducted recently, just in relation to the shareholders of these several thousand... well, several hundred precisely, because there have been so many proceedings, limited partnership companies with foreign shareholders. Hence also the international aspect and this need to tax this segment. Thank you so much for the opportunity to explain. Of course, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u261	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There's already a list of questions to ask. I would very, very much ask the senators, also in view of the time, to limit myself to this 1 minute to the question. Please ask Senator Janusz Bleacher's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You've said a lot in the last five minutes, and until I had to verify my questions, because you've already answered some of them. You speak very quickly, so that you must be very focused at this hour, but thank you for that. Worst in the business. That's what those who do business say, is uncertainty. It's not even a question of tax, it's just that we don't know what the government's gonna give us in two weeks, a month, six months, two years. That's what the taxpayer says. The one who pays taxes, the one who runs the holding company, the one who runs the limited partnership. At the last Senate meeting, I made a statement concerning limited companies and other matters, including: sugar tax. I'm leaving the sugar tax on the side today because we're talking about limited companies. If, after rejecting these legal solutions in the Senate, the Sejm restores these records, and so said Senator Frost... Does the government, in a pandemic age, anticipate the introduction of these solutions with delay, or is it as set out in the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u263	The appropriate solution is included in the presented act. Companies operating in the form of a limited partnership may choose the moment when the tax formula is changed. It is not that as of 1 January they become CIT taxpayers, they may decide to be covered by these regulations from 1 May next year. In this way we give them a few extra months to prepare, also purely technical, for new regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u264	Please ask Senator Robert Dowhan's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I've had a lot of questions. Well, I guess we're not on the same wavelengths... I think so especially after Senator Mr. Frost's statement. We're talking about one thing, and the senator's talking about another. I don't think he's ever gonna accept such a bureaucratic look at the practice of making something with his own hands. I have a question. I'd say different. Does Minister Tadeusz Kościński still work at the Ministry of Finance or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u266	Absolutely. [[Please?]] Yeah, he's working.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u267	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, this last statement of yours almost convinced me of the longer one, not the short, two-tasking one, although unfortunately I still have some doubts. Well, we're in a pandemic period, we're fighting to keep as many businesses, industries, etc. as possible, not to lose workers, jobs, and here's the movement from the state that's being tested, more or less successful, by the opposition. That's the move. It's like in the opposite direction, that's what I'd call it. That's one thing. Secondly, we really need to protect the weakest of them. But I understand that in every segment. And here I'm referring to the tax... It's called retail tax, commercial tax. I remember the first time we tried to develop it, back in 2001 and 2005, and I was a Member. It took a long time, it was born in terrible pains, and the trading networks continued and enjoyed. Then, after the retail tax has entered into force, one or another, but formally so-called, it was vetoed by the European Union or the European Commission. As the Commission lost this case before the Court, COVID came and we ourselves, at our own request, exempted these commercial networks from this tax. We're not downloading him. Yes or no? I would ask the Minister to explain exactly what it's like. Why do we not charge tax on commercial networks, and this is in a covid period when we need to protect the weakest, i.e. small retail stores, family shops, etc.? Well, here's a contradiction. Either we are trying for the weakest, or there are certain enclaves that are equal and equal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u269	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u270	Good. First of all, let me separate two concepts that may seem similar. Firstly, the trade tax, which is a large-scale store tax, is indeed the tax that the European Union has withheld, but we are very happy and we expect a positive judgment in the first months of next year. If no legislative action is taken because this tax has been suspended for 2020, it will be paid by large-area shops as of 1 January 2021. The decision to levy this tax has not yet been made, but if we do not take an initiative in this area, it will simply be taken. I suspect that until the last moment Minister Tadeusz Kościński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki must retain the opportunity to react flexibly to the situation of the actors who operate in this particular market. The suspension was due to the fact that we simply did not know what decision to expect in the European Union. Now, about October, we have been informed that this will be a positive decision, so that from a legal point of view I would say, given the fact that it is also in my vertical position, that there are no purely legal threats to start charging this tax from January 1st. But what else is so-called. minimum income tax on commercial real estate... [[That's not what I'm talking about.]] Yeah, but... [[That's not what I'm talking about, just to be clear.]] Oh, good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u271	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Out of respect for your marshal, I will speak very quickly and ask you a few questions. First question. Minister, is it true that the vast majority of the limited partnership companies do more than EUR 2 million and will therefore fall into double taxation at 420000-45% ? Again: are the majority of companies with a turnover of more than 2 million? Second question. Did I understand correctly that you want to help companies in times of crisis by introducing double taxation because you said so about this aid - The limited partnership? - Yes, sir. Another question. According to my records, 0.4% limited companies are companies with the participation of companies with tax havens. Is it true it's 0.4%? ? [[Voice from the room: 130 exactly.]] And is it true that 3% of all limited companies are foreign capital companies? And if you were to confirm that it is true that foreign companies pay no tax on dividends, so nothing will change for them... Again: is it true that foreign companies do not pay taxes on dividends, i.e. this change will only hit Polish companies? Is it true that the majority, the vast majority of limited companies, are small and medium-sized companies? And don't you, however, apply collective responsibility? Because you're talking about some pathology that happens out there, but you're hitting small and medium-sized Polish companies. That's it. I very much want to answer the question of whether foreign entities in connection with the latter will pay the dividend tax or not. Will something change for foreign entities, or will these changes only hit Polish entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u273	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u274	Of course. I'll let you know. Indeed, 2 000 300 of the 40,000 limited companies registered in Poland have foreign shareholders, i.e.... Well, that's for calculating what percentage it is. According to the Ministry of Finance, 75% limited companies are the smaller companies that will be subject to a reduced CIT rate. But I would like to emphasise once again very strongly: as long as we are not dealing with the company with o.o. as a partner of the limited partnership in which the shareholders, the commander and the partner are linked, the situation of the limited partnership will not deteriorate significantly for so long. On the contrary, the vast majority will improve. I was very interested in the question whether the dividends paid within the European Union are subject to taxation. According to the rules of Union law, they are not subject. But I do not fully understand why it is possible from this particular conclusion, which is a truism and which we all know since 2004 and even before, to draw such a conclusion that it will be a change in favour of foreign companies. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, every company pays income tax on the spot. And as Senator Frozz rightly pointed out, the CIT tax paid by companies in Poland is one of the lowest in the European Union. In 17 European Union countries, the nominal CIT rate is higher than in Poland, only in 7 it is lower. Let's look at: France, 32%; Italy, almost 28%; Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, 25%. 9% rate It's practically unavailable. Double taxation will simply take place in the country of the investor. So that I do not fully understand why such a thesis, that the only tax that is paid, is the tax paid by the company on the spot, in Poland, and then somewhere it disappears and the tax simply does not exist. [[Can I ask you a question?]] Of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u275	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u276	Minister, you misunderstood me. I will repeat the question again: will anything change for limited companies involving foreign entities? I repeat: since the company does not pay dividends on profits... it does not pay dividend tax in Poland, for it, for this company with a share of foreign capital, nothing will change at all. Yes or no? And for Polish entities, of course with the participation of Polish capital, there is double taxation. If you answer again if anything changes due to changes in these regulations for entities with foreign capital and whether these dividends, which are made out of the country, will be taxed in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u277	There will be no additional taxation here, but there will be a level playing field on the market. Remember: our goal is not to improve the situation of foreign investors. They're gonna pay a double tax anyway. One at his place and the other at our place. Our goal is to equalise competitive opportunities between categories of entities that are simply very often identical As in the case of the company z o.o. and this particular segment of companies, i.e. limited companies. I don't quite understand what the foreign investor issue has to do with this. I can confirm to the senator that foreign investors are also losing sight of the fact that they must compete in Poland with those using this kind of tool.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u278	Thank you very much. I have a question, Minister, about this number. More than 40,000 limited companies, and 2,000 200 foreign companies... How many of these partners have companies registered in tax havens? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: I do not have such data now. I can answer in writing.]] And I'll answer you 130. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: We are dealing with countries that are on the EU list of...]] On the basis of the letter of the National Tax Advisory Council of 30 September 2020, the Council of the National Tax Advisers (NRA) decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the So I guess the data is... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Yes, yes, but...]] So for this margin, the state is creating this whole ideology?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u279	No, no, God forbid. These are two different concepts. One concept is a tax haven within the meaning of the classic, i.e. some happy islands operating outside the borders of the European Union, and the other is what we in the Ministry of Finance call an intra-EU tax haven. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: That's exactly what this is all about.]] Inside the EU tax paradise, which is an example of Luxembourg, is a legal order in which personal companies that are shareholders of companies operating in Poland unfortunately do not have to inform us about their ownership structure. Thus, in a situation where we want to tax shareholders of a public company or a limited partnership operating in Poland, we reflect, so to speak, in Luxembourg, on a certain secret sewn up in the commercial law there, unable to find a taxpayer. The key issue for the National Tax Administration is that, if we do not know this taxpayer, we can at least tax the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u280	But that's not what my question was coming to, Minister. For over 40,000 limited companies, 130... For 130 companies, did you build this whole mechanism? So that these 130 companies pay taxes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal, the whole mechanism was built for around 14 000 limited liability companies, which optimize not by introducing funds to tax havens, but by choosing a lower rate of taxation, a rate dedicated to private companies, rather than capital companies, which they are in economic reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u282	I have one more question, then, since the Minister has made a whole statement here about how much the benefits will be to taxpayers. Please tell me what the fiscal effect on the state budget will be: will there be an increase in revenue to the state budget from taxes on this or a decrease?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u283	According to the impact assessment, we will, of course, be faced with an increase, resulting from the fact that the tax at the rate corresponding to the taxation of the limited liability company will pay this one specific segment of the limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u284	Thank you very much. That's where we closed the list of questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. Are you the senator? [[Voice from the room: Sleeping. People are asleep.]] If there isn't, we'll call your senator later, maybe he'll show up. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Are you Senator Leszek Czarnobaj? [[There isn't any either.]] There isn't any either. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the vote. A widow's penny, Minister, a widow's penny. It's a concept we all know. This is a situation in which a miserable, non-important amount of money someone wants to draw from another person who doesn't pay off anyway. A small penny or a widow's penny is all the more appropriate concept when you want to collect money in a situation where the entity or in this case the entities concerned are operating during a crisis, during a pandemic. To be honest, it's completely incomprehensible to me. Whatever you want, planning and whether you're right or wrong, I don't think that's understandable. Instead of focusing all the energy, all your knowledge and experience... True, a very short experience, because it is a few years of functioning, but not for everyone. It seems to me that this is not a good enough and long experience to rule almost 40 million countries in the middle of Europe. But logic, a simple human approach, causes every response to help, not to impose more burdens on the shoulders. When I talk about widow's pennies, I think first of all about those proposals that will most often concern poor, inefficient citizens who, in order to support their family, work not only in Poland but also abroad. The State is not only proposing solutions for entrepreneurs, it is not only the questionable and criticised provisions on double taxation of limited companies, of which I will also say two words in a moment. You also refer to ordinary people who, after all, not of their own free will, but of compulsion, because of the circumstances that happened to them personally or their families, went abroad to work hard, often several hours a day. They take their mouths off and collect money to send them to their families to support their mother, their father, their wife or their children. Yet living there, they bear much higher cost of living than in Poland. It doesn't matter what country we're talking about. The UK, the Federal Republic of Germany, Malta, does not matter, in each of these countries the cost of living is much higher than in Poland. There's Belgium. Well, I didn't name all those countries. The Federal Republic of Germany or Malta is not on this list yet, but the United Kingdom and Belgium are definitely on it. So these people have a higher cost of living, and they often get separated, they don't see a wife, a husband, a child every day. They want to settle down because when they leave, they're mostly convinced they're coming back. They'll raise money and come back when they're better in Poland. They want to spend the rest of their professional, business or family life in their homeland, and you're going to I'm so sorry. I'm gonna give them a double tax. Why am I talking about this widow's penny? Because it's some trace amount, some pollen. This money, which you will take off from them, you want to take off, and I will tell you whether you will take off the money from the state budget, compared to the gross domestic product of Poland of over PLN 2 trillion, compared to tax revenue from PIT and CIT, which amounts to more than PLN 100 billion. And that's what you estimate, I don't even remember exactly about 200 million. Well, these are the calculations of the canka. Not even a quarter of this is gonna happen. I can bet on it here and now, totally a priori. [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] Are you putting yourself in that bet? Okay. If we lose, you pay. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I apologize for this joke, because the matter is of the utmost importance and concerns a crowd of Poles, often young people who, as I said, after several or several years want to return to the country. Do you know what the effect of this recipe you're trying to rip off that widow's penny will be? I don't want to talk about bypassing, but it's something that's very easy to avoid. It's just said adieu, goodbye, hello. No, it's not. You don't want me, a Pole, in Poland, I'll live in Great Britain, Belgium etc. Is that what we're talking about? Is this the patriotic attitude towards Poles abroad? This is the result of this policy which states... Maybe it's not even about the government, it's about the party or the parties that make up the government. I'm not referring this to the Minister and colleagues, I'm directing it through They preached in the 2015 election campaign, in the last year's election campaign... That's the respect? This is calling back to your homeland, are we waiting for you here? To be honest, because of the fact that this is an official forum, a discussion in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, it is difficult for me to tell what terms or comparisons came to my mind, as I started reading about these proposals. Unfortunately, they are similar to those that were in 1945, 1946, 1947, after the end of World War II, when people, Poles were mated to return from abroad, also from Great Britain, because there were many of our citizens there. And they came back, and here they were shit. Then physically, and now you want to financially destroy them. A terrible thing, to be honest, it's inhuman, and it's still during the world pandemic... Whether they are in Poland, whether they are in Belgium or in Great Britain, in addition to these difficulties of everyday life, work and separation, they are still exposed to health and life problems. On the one hand, the pandemic, and on the other hand, theirs. I'm a fiscist. And that's how we're gonna be... I hope this isn't a retaliation for the fact that most of these people voting abroad voted against this team, which now wants to give them that fate. This philosophy, it seems, is also part of this attempt to tax double limited companies. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time...]] Because of this Already, Mrs. Marshal. In my opinion, there was a great deal to be said about this, and I think it was rightly and clearly pointed out that there was no basis for it and, above all, a thought that would give convincing reasons for this double taxation on these companies, I will not develop it. These two solutions are part of such an inexplicable philosophy of putting burdens on citizens and entrepreneurs in the worst time in history, which Poland has not only been in for 30 years, but probably has not had independence for 100 years. Such a pandemic, which causes such a crisis, not only health but also economic, economic and social, many generations do not remember. And at such a time, at such a time, you hit people's interests, private interests, family interests, but also, as it turns out, business. It's really hard to find words of calm criticism, and it's not right to criticize here. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u286	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u287	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've actually given a lot of attention... Well, we're rolling around pretty late and with a small audience, but I think most of us are listening and seeing on the Internet right now. We've given a lot of attention to the commando companies, and we've actually left behind the issue of taxation for those people who have gone abroad. Well, first of all, they have opportunities, second of all, probably most of them didn't want to leave, but they have better conditions in terms of development, science or earnings. What my colleague, Senator Szejnfeld, said... Well, a change in the tax residence in a situation where someone permanently lives in England, and his visits to Poland are on the occasion of Christmas... I don't think that's gonna be possible this year. The change in tax residence is 180 days plus one, plus two, and I think we have plus three... Then from the vending machine we become a resident of a given country. It is no longer possible to pay taxes in Poland, even if someone insists very much As far as I'm concerned. And when it comes to double taxation, I think these people count every penny, because they don't make a fortune, even though they work abroad. They have families, children, so it will be difficult for them to pay tax and there, and again here, especially since they benefit from this tax asset not here but abroad. Mr. Senator, you were talking about taxes, about how you've been lowering everything for five years, but maybe I'll leave it at the end. Minister, I asked about your colleague from the Ministry of Finance, because October 8th... I'm gonna play it back. It's all written down here. Yes, exactly on October 8th, the Minister said that you will not increase any tax by 1 gr next year, i.e. in 2021. Well, if a person in such a position says such words, and today, after a month, we're debating more taxes, then I don't understand something. I asked him if he was working because maybe he made a mistake, maybe he had bad information. Yeah, but I think we should get some very precise information from people like that. I don't know if it's here either, but I'm based on media reports, press reports. It came out in a reputable letter, so I think I'll... give it to you later. Well, you're saying that no tax will increase, and the trade tax will probably increase, because if... Senator Czerwinski isn't here. Yes, this tax will increase. Will it be paid by the networks? They won't pay, Minister. The networks will extort this tax either from the final customer, either from the consumer or from the supplier. There's no way the networks are gonna pay him. They will continue to compete, they will continue to screw the screw on Polish suppliers. That's been confirmed many times. If somebody says some little grocery store can compete... These little groceries don't have to compete. I live next door to a store like this, and I shop there. Well, that's how shopping is done today, that's how this world is built. There's nowhere in the world that a small shop can run a top-notch store with more customers than a big-store. Well, that's not gonna happen. Is sugar tax rising? It's rising. And the minister said nothing would increase. The alcohol tax is rising. You explained the sugar tax because it's about health. Well, if it's harmful, then why are you charging the producers with tax? You have to ban sugar, ban alcohol, if it's harmful. How should we fight harmful goods? Not by raising taxes, I guess. And then there's what we're discussing today about taxing limited companies. Real estate taxes are on the rise, from the rain. You are abolishing the abolition allowance and maintaining VAT, which, according to the provisions of the Act, could already be reduced. You didn't lower him, and you once criticized him very much that he was raised by 1%. In the meantime, they've grown... But I'll talk about it later. Minister, I'm moving to commando companies. In the explanatory memorandum of this bill, the Ministry of Finance claims that the desire to include limited companies in income tax results from their use for tax optimization and profit-making to countries applying harmful tax competition. Well, I think it's a mega lie. If you know there's a company that's either making money or doing something wrong... After all, you have the tools to control such a company to give it more. Well, it's hard for me to even say. It's hard to use other words. Your marshal gave us a number... One of the colleagues said that the number of these companies that are linked to foreign capital and have their headquarters somewhere in tax havens is really very small in relation to tens of thousands of Polish family companies. They've made a fortune, and you're hitting it, as Senator Adam said, with a tax bat, and you're throwing everyone in one sack. Well, you can't do that, Minister. It's megaintelligent, megaintelligent. Well, that claim is mega-truthy, 'cause if everyone's cheating... I understand that, but if someone's cheating, then they're instruments... They're or they're not... [[I didn't say someone was cheating.]] Oh, yeah. But today we still have the so-called. JPK, goods tracking files that are sent to the tax office. You guys can see it all. You can see everything. If someone's releasing something abroad, you've got it in the reports they're sending. Today isn't like 10 or 20 years ago, you guys keep up to date. The system is so sealed, it's hard to say today that someone's cheating. On behalf of those who do business, I must protest. That's a lying claim that's wrong about being, and it hasn't been confirmed. If 99% or 80% companies cheated, and 1% No, well, I understand that you could do that, but there's a trace number that's cheating here, so it can be eliminated with one control. I've also read it, Minister... I didn't ask any questions, but I read that we have about 420 thousand classic O.R. companies. Well, maybe about the number... But of those companies that we have, only 25% He pays taxes, and others are, let's say, on the verge of light profits, almost on a slight downside. That also tells me something. 'Cause I can't believe three-quarters of companies, companies. with big capital works pro publico bono, either works at the expense, or works at zero. Something's wrong here. If you're gonna start a company with an O.O., you should have a profit if you don't in five years, it's gonna take some time, not keep working and going to zero. Something's wrong here. And they don't go to commando companies. Because there's a record that there was no drain here, and suddenly the stock companies, the companies from the O.R., didn't disappear. As far as the limited partnership is concerned, it is about the mode and pace of making these changes. Minister, the companies are planning something. Since it is the end of November, a large company has contracted some projects, purchases, sales. And now he finds out that since the new year, the whole tax system has been changing, which is also being introduced... On October 16, the Ministry announces this, gives 5 days for consultation, and on October 21, the Sejm is taking care of it. Today we have five days to the end of the month, when this tax law should come in, tomorrow the Sejm is gathering to take care of it, and on Monday the president has to sign a bill to change commando companies from the new year. Can't you? it was done with longer vacathio legis, e.g. introducing this from 2022, give time, do in some normal way, ask all associations that bring together entrepreneurs? There's BCC, Leviathan and others. You gave them five days. Well... [[Mr. Senator, please conclude...]] How are these companies supposed to adapt to business change from the new year? Those changes that the government is making... Of course, it's not just the PiS government, because that's how it's changed over the last 30 years, let's say. Today, if someone isn't in business, and he's gonna listen to our debate... On the one hand, he would have heard that the government was constantly lowering something, because taxes... here the Estonian system, so you won't be paying, here 9%. You don't pay here. I think farmers pay 5.5%. It's still something. On the other hand, someone who's in business can't figure it out anymore. I called you a month ago or three weeks ago... [[Mr. Senator...]] Last sentence. When we got this project, I sent it to a good accounting office. After two days they called back and said that after reading a few cards they didn't understand it, because it's so confusing that it's hard to figure it out, so it's only when it comes in that it's going to be announced that they're going to sit on it. Five more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u288	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the Minister referred to all the important issues raised in the discussion, so I will focus on just one issue, on the appeal to the Senators from the Platform, to consider their amendment, which aims to remove the obligation to publish tax policies, tax policies by large companies. Am I being heard right now? [[You're perfectly heard.]] Thank you very much. [[And it's also visible.]] Because I was surprised... well, that's why it's a question. It is therefore a request to rethink this amendment, which aims to abolish the obligation for large companies to publish their strategy or to disclose their tax strategy. As you know, the Ministry of Finance has recently been authorised to publish information on revenue or tax losses of the largest entities, with revenues above EUR 50 million. This was a very important step towards transparency of tax management or transparency of tax accounting by the largest entities operating in Poland. As we all remember, in many discussions, also in election campaigns, there has always been a question about where they pay taxes. Do you know where they pay taxes? Do they pay taxes in Poland?Along with the presumption that they do not pay taxes. So there is a social interest in this issue. There is social pressure, which is, after all, an important and positive pressure to achieve this transparency of tax. This is why there is this provision, which is not a recipe originally invented in Poland, but the implementation of the regulation, which is contained in the EU ATAD directive and which many European countries have already implemented. E.g. in the UK, more than 2 000 taxpayers now have to publish this information about their tax strategy. This is important in the fight for the transparency of business taxation, but also important for these companies, because the publication of such a tax strategy in some sense relieves the charge of tax avoidance, because if tax optimisation issues are clarified in this tax strategy, then the presentation cannot become non-existent after all. So, I would ask my colleagues to think about this amendment so that in Poland As recommended in the OECD documents, adopted in the EU Directive, accepted in other countries, already implemented in other countries, allow our citizens, taxpayers, to put such social pressure on big business in order to make these tax strategies transparent, clear. On this matter I wanted to appeal, to appeal for consideration by my fellow Senators on the Platform of this amendment. The second point, which I would like to address further, is the raised issue of the taxation of limited liability companies. Senator rapporteur Czarnobaj reminded this story from 2013 when the limited-liability companies were being taxed. At that time, the idea of including limited companies in this tax was actually abandoned. There has been a migration from limited-liability companies to limited-liability companies in order to avoid taxation. Senator Czarnobaj said that if they had the knowledge they now have in 2013, they would not have decided to tax limited liability companies. For me, this is an original statement, but I understand that in 2013 this effort has not yet been so clearly supported in the international forum and has not been the general effort made by governments and societies of more than 100 countries that have actually been working since 2015 through the OECD on tax sealing, combating tax base erosion, shifting profits between different jurisdictions, which resulted only in 2016 in the adoption and implementation of the ATAD Directive by the European Union in 2019. What we are doing right now, what is proposed in this proposal, in this law, is in line with the best tax standards developed by international organisations and adopted in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u290	Thank you, Senator. You've tabled an amendment, haven't you? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[No, you haven't tabled an amendment. I misunderstood.]] No, I didn't. You didn't report it. Good. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej, also remotely. Senator Aleksander Pociej. [[Voice from the room: There is no one in the house.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Alexander Comfort, remotely. [[Voice from the room: I'll call my friend...]] That's Senator Krzysztof Mroz, because you can't connect with Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, to be honest, didn't want to speak anymore, because I spent a few dozen minutes on this speaker, but Senator Dowhan can encourage a man to speak. Mr. Senator, I'll remind you because you're a prominent citizen of the Civic Platform... I'm sorry, Marshal Staneck was a little offended by the fact that I'm still talking about the Civic Platform, but this is where I have to talk about the Platform. Do you remember what your ex-boss said? He used to talk about this 3x15 program. Remember? You were a councilman, as I read, in Green Mountain, then you were a senator, so you probably agreed with the program. When President Donald Tusk realized this program, and you ruled two terms, 3x15... somewhere I'd say... Even it was in the Wyborcza gazeta that these signatures were ground, that I would say so, so it never happened... Because it was such a social initiative that people were supporting, the platform was collecting signatures, and then suddenly it turned out that these signatures went somewhere to grind. So if you wanted to quote what when you promised, maybe you'd have to start with yourself. Then there was a second quote from Mr. Donald Tusk's speech, famous for saying so, we remember: who in my government is going to raise taxes will be thrown out. I guess Mr. Donald Tusk should be kicking himself out of this government because it was the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk who raised taxes, including famous VAT, from 7 to 8%, from 22 to 23%, etc. It's all you can check out. The Internet remembers all this, there are speeches, Internet users are also vigilant. Today you say that where someone from the government, from the politicians of Law and Justice, broke his word. This would have to be supported by a specific example, because I don't see us raising any taxes anywhere. 'Cause I don't see us raising any taxes anywhere. The sugar levy is not a tax, and we have introduced it on a model basis, Mr Senator, various Western European and EU solutions. And today you are raising this issue so strongly in the EU 'Cause in a lot of countries It's... In addition, the revenue from this is that, so to speak, marginal, we want to eliminate certain products more with these charges. And I could give you many examples, Mr. Senator, when we lowered taxes, yes, they reduced taxes... [[Give it to me.]] Please? [[Give it to me.]] [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] And don't you remember the tax reduction... Mr. Senator... I'm sorry, but I don't think it's been ten minutes. [[No, no, but don't discuss it.]] Oh, sorry, that was... But... Mr. Senator, there was this famous CIT for small businesses. To 9%; there was a reduction in PIT for individuals. Well, maybe with your income, your business, you don't notice it, but a lot of people appreciate it, so to speak. And if we're gonna... for the time being I'm saying this today, I don't know how I'm gonna say it in this courtroom anymore. After all, we do not introduce any new tax in this bill, but we seal the system, and even if we introduce limited companies and include them with CIT, we do not increase this CIT, but we want someone to pay taxes fairly. And we don't think that today those who are taking advantage of this legal situation are not doing it. Am I supposed to remind you of that, because unfortunately I didn't write it out for myself, but for the next Senate meeting I can, because I think that sooner or later we will go back to the issue of economic solutions, how much relief have we introduced for entrepreneurs? E.g. so-called. small ZUS, e.g. solutions beneficial for start-ups, e.g. start-up or start-up relief, e.g. companies and R &amp; D reliefs, e.g. we have extended the VAT settlement in the case of imports. etc., etc. Well, these are concrete solutions that we have put in place for Polish entrepreneurs for these 5 years, within the framework of the Business Constitution, as part of the programme of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawicki, first Deputy Prime Minister, then Prime Minister, but all the time with the economy... This was all happening, Mr. Senator, right? And if we look at eight years of civil platform rule, it's gonna turn out to be thin. The party, which talked so much about supporting Polish entrepreneurs, about the fact that the PiS is backwards, that the Platform supports entrepreneurs... If you were such a great leader, entrepreneurs would support you, but even entrepreneurs turned their backs on you at some point and trusted the Law and Justice. And I hope they're going to keep going, and so to speak, more in front of us. Today we have a very difficult situation related to the epidemic. But the epidemic is global today. And you will have to take all kinds of action, perhaps even unpopular, short-term, to save the economy to save the budget. Today we try to support Polish entrepreneurs as much as possible, sticking to some budgetary realities. Well, we're not second Germans, because after eight years of the Civic Platform, you had to seal the tax system because the money was a little empty. And these eight years of government by Prime Minister Donald Tusk or rather seven years of his rule plus this episode of government by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, it was, so to speak, a gigantic debt of the Polish state. That money was coming out somewhere. And only we, since the year de facto 2016, have begun to seal the tax system. And among others. from this sealing of the tax system 'Cause we haven't raised taxes anywhere, Mr. Senator, and if you say so, just tell me which tax we've raised, Mr. Senator... So that's what they were for, among other things. also money for the numerous social programmes that we have implemented on an unimaginable scale. For 5 years there has been economic growth, each year higher economic growth. Historical, record low unemployment, lowest... [[Voice from the hall: Oh, yeah, thanks to you.]] No, sir, not thanks to us, but through the economic policy that the government is pursuing. Because, Mr. Senator Tyszkiewicz, if something's wrong, that's it. It's the PiS government's fault, but when it happens in the economy well, then probably aliens do it, certainly not the PiS. We've got to make up our mind about something. Or good and bad things are the responsibility of a government that rules at a given time, whether it's a government or not. Mateusz Morawiecki, Beata Szydło, Eve Kopacz, Donald Tusk I don't know who was there before Leszek Miller... Well, obviously, thanks to a well-managed economic policy, we have achieved success. You're questioning it today, says it wasn't achieved by the government. I'm the one who can say that the success of New Salt It is not because of former President Tyszkiewicz. I suppose if I told you that, you'd be offended and told me how successful you were when you were president. I'm not questioning this because you've probably been pursuing some kind of policy. If there was something good going on in New Salt, you probably had your part in it, and I don't want to question it in any way. And so to speak, economic indicators objectively defend five years of the rule of law and justice. Today, of course, we are in a difficult situation, just as Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Spain is in a difficult situation. Unfortunately, we are not as strong an economic champion as Germany, because for 50 years or even more than 50 years we have built a socialist economy and thanks, among others. such people as Mr. Marshal Borusewicz sitting here and leading the proceedings, we managed to free the Great Brother from this hug from the east. But we've lost 50 years and that's why today we don't have economic development like Germany. But we have managed to make up for our losses, and today we are already approaching the economic level of the countries of the South. There has been a pandemic situation that is independent of the government. And whether it's Mrs Merkel or it's Boris Johnson in the UK, we all have a pandemic problem. We do not know the economic impact of this crisis, this unimaginable crisis. And it would be good if you were a responsible opposition, mostly in the Senate, and helped a little, and not only dealt with criticism, not even criticism, but criticism. See: an example of the previous point where you had to criticize the government for introducing the so-called. Estonian CIT, even though you supported this CIT in the Sejm and will probably support it on Friday in the Senate vote. Well, there are situations where we need to unite, and the pandemic situation requires that. And on the other hand, what do we get? Well, on the other hand, we get the most urgent resolution, the most needed resolution, which was quickly voted on, a resolution on some kind of budget veto, as if it were the most important. It was possible to make this bill today, until midnight is a little bit of time, or tomorrow morning, not wait, give time to your colleagues in the Seym, give time to Mr President, not hold everything until the last minute and be glad you've kept it because you've spent 30 days in the Senate. [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] Some favourable solutions for Polish entrepreneurs could be introduced more quickly. I would very much ask that in a pandemic situation not be guided by the political interest, but by the interests of Poland, in this case even the interests of Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u292	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u293	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, there's no need to be so nervous. I think you believe what you're saying and you understand it. I'm gonna be honest, first of all, I don't believe it, and second of all, I totally don't understand it. But maybe we're not on the same level. Perhaps you're right, I might think differently. And that's what we're different about. We can argue. I don't say it in bad faith, because in the reign of the predecessors and before that many mistakes were made, they didn't go into relief for entrepreneurs either, but there was still draining. But about the empty money, I wouldn't say yes, because if it was on 500+ plus plus plus, that means there was something in that cash register. I mean, for a couple of months, that money didn't... Unless you printed them, so can I. You said... I've got five minutes, so I'm gonna try to talk fast, and I'm gonna tell you about the taxes in the last couple of years. You were talking about start-ups, other companies. It's just the artificial giving of billions of zlotys, that's the way it is with start-ups. 99% Of these, after exhaustion of the grant, natural death is lost. It's the same with giving unemployed people 20 or more thousand jobs to open up, for example. a hairdresser who, after a year or a half, closes when the money runs out and returns to unemployment again. It's like moving from pocket to pocket, doing statistics in different institutions. I think that this change in the taxation of limited companies will also affect... I'm sure the relationship with banks will change, because banks have so far been reluctant to lend to commando companies because this responsibility has been limited. Today, these entrepreneurs are forced to go into other solutions or to change their legal personality. I'm sure the banks are gonna benefit from that, and I think they're gonna open up to credit, because it's been different so far. However, I have to say that when you used to go after a loan, it was a simple solution, it was a preparatory commission, although I don't quite understand it, but it was a long time ago, and then a margin plus WIBOR. Today there are some complicated systems and, for example. as at the end of one month there will be more in the account than at the end of the other, that is a commission on this surplus, as the credit is not used in the turnover account, this is where you pay for unused, and there you pay for used. An additional burden is also a guarantee fund. There were banks out there somewhere, and today we have to finance it, Minister, unfortunately. [[Voice from the room:... Falling.]] Well, what did the SKOKs do? Where did they come from, Senator... [[Voice from the room:... SKOK-i, no...]] I mean, really... I've probably only got two minutes left, so this is where... I've got this tax bill... Exactly: bank tax, i.e. credit tax, the one we were talking about; commercial tax, i.e. on purchases that are about to be introduced; solidarity tax... Well, it's not called tax. But what is it? 4% Some pay, others don't. Someone has more income, more risk, more work, so it has a solidarity tax. I don't know what it's meant for, probably for something useful. But is that fair? Isn't that a tax? You didn't bring it in? Mr. Senator! The fuel issue fee. It wasn't supposed to affect fuel prices. Fuel prices all over the world have fallen, the price per barrel of oil is the lowest. On Sunday, I'm filling up at our station, trying to refuel at big stations, and we have two big companies, I'm not going to replace one of them, I'm buying diesel for 4,77. I'm going through Green Mountain, and I'm seeing that there's a big barrel of Orlen at the private station, they're dropping fuel. I'm pulling in, I'm buying, I've got evidence. Minister, the same oil from the same supplier. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . That's 4,77 and 4,04. Our big state companies have a network, they have distribution, they have production. It's unimaginable to make such a difference. And the fuel margins are really big right now, because the price, you know, fell. There's an issue fee. No one's gonna figure out who's paying for this. Who's paying? Of course, he's the one who fills it up. There is a transitional fee, so-called. the capacity fee. Was she introduced by the PiS government or not? Come on. Is there a gallery tax? He is now counted from shopping galleries and office buildings, and then will be counted from any commercial property? It will be. The registration fee? The recycling fee is? Well, maybe it's not a tax because it's called a fee. Increase and extend the scope of the recycling charge? Bottom fee on the marina; water charge; taxation of financial contributions to companies... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and income from inherited assets... [[...five minutes go by.]] That's the last two points. [[There you go.]] ... Received as a donation that can no longer be depreciated; qualitative fee for technical examination of vehicles; VAT increase on many food products, including healthy food, i.e. fish and similar products, from 8 to 23%, by 15 points up It's a healthy lifestyle. Next: maintaining the higher rates, the 23 percent you were talking about. You can lower them, you have the opportunity, but you have extended them, while many countries, like the Germans you mentioned, have reduced them. You guys left them for an indeterminate period. Next: an increase in excise duty by 10% on alcohol, tobacco products, e-cigarettes; an increase in export charges for unsorted waste; freezing of PIT thresholds, elimination of linear PIT for entrepreneurs whose income exceeds PLN 1 million...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u294	Mr. Senator, I know this list is very long, but it's been seven minutes, so thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. If you don't mind...]] And please take the floor... [[...in order to correct one sentence, I won't even speak.]] But, Senator... [[I've been mentioned by Senator Dowhan twice.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u295	Mr. Senator, the retail tax was passed in 2016, and it is not being introduced now. That's the only reason he's gonna be suspended now... [[I said it, you weren't...]] You're gonna question what you said. Once again, this tax is from 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u296	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go into concrete terms, I would like to respond to Senator Mroz and remind you that in 2008 the crisis was not caused by what happened in Poland, it was only a global crisis. Then accounting for the previous ones... I do not belong to any party to be clear, so I have no reason to defend the previous government, but the situation was different before 2008 and the situation was different after 2008. These are situations comparable to this crisis that is today. This is the first case. Second thing. As far as economic development is concerned, Senator, as you probably know, this is not happening in a year, two, three years. This is a long-, long-, long-term trial. I cordially invite you, and I'm serious, to New Salt. I'm going to show you how economic development took place there, that neither the previous government nor this government really had a major impact on my city's economic success, and that's what I'm going to prove to you. But now I'm getting to the point. I invite you to New Salt, honestly, I'll show you around, show you everything and tell you the story. Now, about the bill... Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few basics, too, and I refer them primarily to the Minister. First of all, if you're changing... We understand that because government changes create politics, but time is terrible, the worst possible, worse time couldn't be invented. The inclusion of CIT limited companies in the economic crisis is unjustified and irresponsible. It's been a short time. This is, as the classic says, putting Polish entrepreneurs before the so-called. the fact that it has been done. After all, people found out a week ago that they were going to be taxed. You think you don't raise taxes. Okay. But from the position of the entrepreneur, the Polish entrepreneur, who also optimizes profits, because it was often discussed here... It's not like someone bought a Mercedes, and now they're not gonna buy that Mercedes because they made too much money, and now they're gonna make less money. After all, entrepreneurs conduct their financial policy, plan their business and calculate their profits. If they have to pay an additional tax or a higher tax Let's make it happen. That's what they're gonna have to do. But the economic crisis that is caused by the pandemic is the worst time that these companies can change their form. After all, some of these limited companies will turn into some other companies, into public companies, maybe into companies from O.O. We don't know that. What part? We don't know that. Time It's bad, I'm pointing it out again. You couldn't think of a worse way. An argument I can't agree with entirely that pathology... This is where you said... I do not want to talk about this policy, but I can no longer hear about how Polish entrepreneurs have stolen it before, and the state has sealed this system. I'll just remind you that VAT is reversed and the control file is, if I'm not mistaken, the previous authority prepared it and the state introduced it. Glory to the previous power and glory to you that you have introduced this because it has systematized the flow of money when it comes to VAT. And today it's not even a matter of stealing that money, as you're trying to create it, but some sort of order, that money doesn't die in the system. And very well, praise the previous government, praise you for doing this. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can't accept that it was a pathology, and I can't accept that the government of the PiS and the Minister Who doesn't listen to me. They introduce collective responsibility. I can't accept it. Tell me openly and honestly that you need money for the budget. Let it be fair and you're trying to get the money back. And talking about this pathology... Well, I can't accept it. You're talking about aggressive optimization. I don't know, some new words have emerged... I'm not gonna talk about abusi structures anymore... it's looking for an excuse to get money off the market. You have the right to do so, but the timing is terrible and the timing of this project is completely unacceptable. I would just like to remind you that in the vast majority are Polish family companies, Polish small and medium-sized family companies. This has been said many times here: 3% of the limited companies are foreign capital companies. 3%. Plus, I said it and I'll say it again. For foreign companies nothing will change because foreign companies do not pay dividends from their profits. Nothing will change for them, and Polish entrepreneurs will feel it very strongly. And as for these tax havens, it was also said 0.4% These are companies that can be described as tax havens that have shares in Polish companies. One more important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the question of what year this has been in force. Of course, I understand that not everyone has to remember that date. The rules currently in force... I didn't mean the commando companies, because they've been operating for many, many years. But this system, which is in force today, was adopted in 2000 and has been in force since 1 January 2001, which is 19 years old. You've had a lot of time to make these changes, and you've had the previous government, and you've had a lot of time. You bring them in at the worst possible moment. Company development... It's been said many times here that we're running away from tax. I can't accept it. The increase in the number of limited companies is generally due to economic development. I don't want to argue with Senator Frost anymore, whose credit is this. But economic development throughout the world, in China, in the United States, in Germany and Poland is a fact. Thus also economic development has caused that there is an increase in economic activity, there are more companies, different companies, including limited companies. So this is organic development, not tax evasion. Maybe there's a pathologist, of course, no one's questioning that. But what's the percentage? I think it's small. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The commando companies primarily allow individuals not to escape responsibility, but to limit this responsibility. With all due respect, Senator... I don't know if you were doing business. I ran for 17 years, I know what it means to take credit, make commitments, pay my employees' salaries and then, at the very end, feed your children. I know that because I've done it for 17 years. I think that many decision-makers do not know what this economic activity and the associated responsibility is. There used to be no limited partnership, and I regret that, because I was active in the 1980s and 1990s, I lost huge money, and today maybe I could limit this responsibility as a natural entrepreneur. In fact, the limited partnership was the only legal form for which it was possible to pay a 19-percent tax, such as the natural person, to protect himself from liability. This has also been going on here: many companies I have such signals from Poland. It's gonna turn into companies... It's gonna turn. So these projected profits for the budget that the Minister was talking about will be much, much smaller. According to my knowledge, these planned profits are about PLN 1 billion 700 million, perhaps PLN 1 billion 740 million. I think they're gonna be a lot, a lot smaller, because some companies are just gonna find a solution and they're gonna run away from it. We've got a pandemic, the government's bringing in a lockdown, we've got GDP collapse, huge losses. The government supported the companies with a subsidy, the condition of which was to maintain their business for the next year. After the introduction of double taxation, some companies will fall and will have to pay back the grant. I've got these signals from the market, they're texting me entrepreneurs. They're devastated because they don't know what to do. Not only do they have limited influence, they balance at the border, say, some survival, but now they have to... a new tax is being introduced right now, which they have to pay, an additional tax. And now they don't know: change the legal form? Then they'll have to pay back the grant. Don't change the legal form? There will be additional taxation. They just can't handle it. That's it. And at the very end, I would literally like to say two sentences about the abolition bill. I don't understand completely. Even when it comes to politics Why are you shooting yourself in the knee? After all, people who work abroad write to me, too, and they say that they earn money there and invest this money in Poland. When this abolition bill comes into force, they're just going to change citizenship. I can bet you really much that many Poles working abroad and living there, but here building their homes, buying apartments, will change citizenship, will be offended to the Polish government, because they will feel like second-class citizens. The Polish government, instead of caring for citizens who work abroad, earn money and invest in Poland, wants to somehow punish these citizens with additional taxation. And finally, politically. I think you're instinct for self-preservation. I do not regret you because I am not a party person, but I do not sympathize with the ruling option. You've lost your self-preservation instinct. You are shooting yourself in the knee due to the taxation of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises and people who have made a living abroad and now, in order to avoid financial punishment, they will change their place of investment in their own money, change their citizenship and the effect will probably be different than intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u298	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! Tall, little Izbo! My speech will be very brief. This is another time when you're trying to get your entrepreneurs something like you stopped by the money store and you're looking for the one where there's some more money. 51 000 entities It's about 150,000 companies working with them. These are according to the KRS most often developers, construction companies building railway lines, road hubs, but also a lot of law firms dealing with real estate, pharmaceutical companies. It is clear that these are companies which have large capital ties and which are linked to very different entities. Therefore, making changes in a situation where the future of these companies is very uncertain, especially in a situation where we have a forecast budget veto and this powering the money economy to be used for investment... This could seriously weaken the position of these companies. Therefore, the most important thing that the government should ensure for economic operators is the predictability of the law. And that's what's important. I am aware that if very expensive social programmes have been implemented, they must be guaranteed continuity of funding. But this cannot be done at the expense of entrepreneurs who also want to ensure that their employees continue to finance their salaries and that their subcontractors continue to pay their wages for their work. Since consulting entrepreneurs lasts five days, I do not believe that it is a country that ensures the safety of its citizens. Entrepreneurs who have capital companies have limited partnership companies, sometimes with very complicated links, must be assured that, so to speak, predictability in the long term. Therefore, I believe that such projects are very damaging because of the loss of confidence in the authorities. We, as parliamentarians, must make this clear. The State must cooperate with those for whom it creates this right. He can't surprise them because it's not a classy game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u300	Thank you, Senator. And I'll ask you to take the floor of Senator Krzysztof... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, God...]] ...Frost. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Listening to these various statements... Well, it's gonna be hard to take some economic pro-economic action with such a total opposition, and with such a demagogical, non-economic reality... Senator Sekuła says that we are introducing such solutions, even today, in order to save the payout of social programs, 500+. Senator, I would like to tell you that the 500+ programme is, if I was wrong, the Minister will correct me about PLN 40 billion a year, and here we are talking about a billion with a piece. Yes? So, Senator, these are completely different amounts, different sizes, believe me... [[It's like a piggy bank, Mr. Senator.]] This has nothing to do with... I think I've been saying this for the tenth time. And I'm a little surprised that today, when we introduce solutions that don't increase taxes, they don't create new taxes... I do not know if such solutions will need to be introduced if the COVID extends. I don't know if we're gonna have to do that, because we don't know what situation we're gonna be in next year, whether the vaccine will work or if it's all gonna... It may be necessary to make very difficult economic decisions. I'm already imagining the hysteria that's going to reign here. For now, we're going through this pretty dry foot. As far as possible in this situation, unheard of in modern history. 2008 crisis confirmed It wasn't Donald Tusk's fault. However, it was something completely different, it was a crisis in the financial markets as a result of speculation and financial engineering that banks use. Those fees that Senator Dowhan was talking about... You can't say that, get a normal credit. It's all built up in very complicated financial products. Today we want to seal the tax system, we want people to pay taxes honestly and that someone who runs a development company in the form of an O.R. company should be treated the same way and have the same tax burden as someone who runs a limited partnership. The idea is to even the odds that the same economic activity will be taxed in the same way regardless of this preference... And he's already waking up with this amazing hysteria. I remember putting in a VAT seal. It was just as hard, and so did you, ladies and gentlemen. When we introduced the KAS, they were crying like that from that podium. Let it go, ladies and gentlemen. It's all recorded, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not saying personally that it was Mrs. Secula who said that... That's something you can watch. Well, every thing, every proposal to seal the tax system so that there's more money, among other things. for these social programs, but also to support Polish entrepreneurs... If Senator Dowhan says you don't know what the solidarity fee is for, I'll remind you... Because if you didn't vote for it, if you voted against it, it would be worth reading it. People with revenues above PLN 1 million pay this fee and this money goes as a solidarity to help people with disabilities, Mr. Senator. [[Then why are you...]] For those disabled people, Mr. Senator. [[Then why are you...]] After all, you remember those protesting disabled people in the Sejm that you supported so much. And today you're questioning this fee? It's not like it's going into a private pocket, for Members' wages, for Senators. We had the courage to reduce our wages by 20%, Mr. Senator. That's 20%! [[And now you wanted to raise it.]] 20%, that's what I'm gonna say. I no longer want to say what Members or Senators of the Civic Platform have said about wages. If we have introduced a solidarity fee, it is to support people with disabilities. And these are people who pay mega-high... Because if someone has an income of PLN 1 million, over PLN 1 million a year, it's really... And yet here we're talking about people who pay PIT, which means they have to be employed for employment contracts, so they're presidents of big banks, so to speak... [[Voice from the Chamber: Company of the Treasury.]] Mrs. Senator, just the first thing that Law and Justice did was lower salaries in the Treasury companies. We've limited the time of the briefing, we've limited the period of the no-compete, Senator. See how much the President of Obajtek, the President of Orlen, makes today, and how much the President of the Tailor made when he was the President of Orlen. [[Mr. Senator, you're already out of time.]] You have to see what we've introduced, etc., etc. [[Six minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[It's like you've come to terms with something a little more gentle...]] In one sentence... [[Well, if you're more of a gentleman, then...]] I hope that during this difficult period of pandemics, the majority of the Senate will also help us in helping Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u302	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Well... [[...I used the time limit...]] But you're welcome, Senator, please. You've got five more minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[I hope... five more minutes.]] I don't know why there are personal attacks. I wasn't talking to the senator or the senator or any other senator. I was just talking about facts. The conclusion of my speech was extremely objective, because I only included in it the expectation that the government would not surprise any of the groups of citizens with decisions that are taken during a 5-day consultation in a situation where business activity lasts for years when long-term contracts are concluded that cannot be hanged up like a hat on a hanger. All I wanted was for us to start proceding so that the future of all those affected by the law was predictable, because I can't imagine the functioning of a country where there is a new reality every week. And unfortunately, you started your speech very many hours ago from the fact that you mentioned large publishing corporations, which were supposed to be commando companies. I've been through a lot of them, and I haven't found one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u304	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Władysław Komarnicki, Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Świlski, Benjamin Godyla and Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Krzysztof Mróz and Rafał Ambrozik. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: No.]] Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the room: Messages.]] Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u305	Meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of applications submitted at the 18th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by natural persons and certain other acts Time out, huh?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-25-senat-18-1.u306	Thank you very much, Senator Secretary. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 06]]
