ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 11.15, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13, - Public Finance - hour. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u2	Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the situation in the Republic of Belarus after the presidential election on 9 August 2020, print No 558. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the situation in the Republic of Belarus after the Presidential elections on 9 August 2020 (print No 558). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the situation in the Republic of Belarus after the presidential election on 9 August 2020 Remembering the joint struggle between Poles and Belarusians for freedom and democracy, especially on the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle of 1920, keeping faithful to the tradition of Solidarity on the 40th anniversary of its establishment, the Polish Sejm strongly condemns the use by the authorities of Aleksandra Lukashenka of brutal violence and mass repression against the Belarusian society and forgery of the results of the presidential elections in the Republic of Belarus on 9 August 2020. As a result of the unprecedented brutal violence against the citizens of Belarus, two people were killed, several hundred were injured, over 7,000 were injured. arrested or detained, and a large number of peaceful protesters were beaten by OMON officers, militias and special forces. In the face of such a dramatic situation, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to assure all Belarusians of our solidarity and support. We strongly demand that the authorities in Minsk immediately release all arrested and stop repression and violence against the public. We strongly condemn denying the citizens of Belarus the opportunity to participate in free, democratic elections and to express their views freely. Intimidating opposition candidates and their imprisonment, restricting fundamental freedoms, including the right to assembly and freedom of expression, the use of brutal force does not serve to strengthen the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Belarus. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, with a view to the good and development of the Polish-Belarusian neighbourly relations, calls on the authorities in Minsk to immediately start a peaceful dialogue with the public, which is the only way to build a successful future for Belarus. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland asks the Polish Government to mobilise humanitarian aid for victims of persecution in Belarus and to create the possibility of rapid reception of political refugees from Belarus. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the European Parliament and the European Council and the European Commission to take decisive action to support Belarusian civil society. I propose that the Sejm adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Alive Belorus! Alive Belorus! Alive Belorus! I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the situation in the Republic of Belarus after the presidential elections on 9 August 2020. We have formal requests. As the first Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u3	God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that once again, the carp is demanding an acceleration of Christmas Eve. Is that what you want? The international determination of each country in Central Europe? That's what you vote for, is that what you're applauding? Is that what you like? The same argument you are using for Belarus will be and will already be used for Poland. Karpie, carp before Christmas Eve. Mrs. Marshal! I ask you to order a recess to convene the Senior Convention to put an end to pandemic psychosis, crownapanics. It's time to stop filming this nonsense spiral. The fact that the whole world is succumbing to it, with some spectacular exceptions, even to the east of us, is no reason for the Republic of Poland to follow this path to destruction. Let's stop with the fake pandemic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Of course we will not vote on this proposal, because the convening of the Senior Convention is my mandate, the convention has taken place. In a relationship... It's a recess request. No. You requested a recess to convene the Seniors Convention. Mr President, I will not vote on this, I will not announce a break, nor will I call for a convention. Thank you very much. Your marshal's gonna get another book from me. Useful reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u4	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. Sir, get this thing out of here. Get out of here. I do not accept gifts from Members, especially from you. Take it away.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, pursuant to Article. 173 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, we apply to supplement the agenda with information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about police detentions in Krakowskie Przedmieście and ul. Wolf in Warsaw on Friday, August 7. The Constitution provides immunity and personal freedom for each of us, and the restriction of freedom can only be done on the principles defined in detail in Polish law. That is why we ask: In the name of what law did the police not attempt to dialogue with peacefully protesting young people? In the name of what law the commanding officers gave an order: take three people and load them into cars, who cares? In the name of what law were policemen throwing, beating, suffocating and handcuffing young people in the back who protested peacefully? The Federation of Uniform Service Associations of the Republic of Poland writes: At one time every person faced with a social judgment, giving an account of what he did on behalf of the Polish state. [[Applause]] That's the opposite of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u6	Madam President, I think we have seen completely different pictures, but the Convention has taken place. I will not call a break, Member. That's what we talked about. All the requests that have been made will be addressed to a committee meeting, not to a session of the Sejm. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask you to convene a break, convene a Convention of Seniors and complete the agenda for the information of the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers on the preparations of the Polish state for the second wave of COVID-19 infections. A few days ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki in one of the press interviews said, quote: Up until now we have dealt with threats very well. Perhaps it's so good that it's put us to sleep. And now we can sleep too. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, the Prime Minister told Minister Szumowski that the virus was in reverse. The reality has been verified and boasted and hypocritical. The next few days, the last few days, show that we're dealing with a peak of infection. The next few weeks are coming, and we still don't know if the government has a plan at all. Hello! This is Earth. Prime Minister, we have a second wave. We need to wake up. Thank you, Mr... Holidays may have been, but for students and teachers. Not for the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u8	Mr President, you were at the Convention meeting and you are well aware of the information from the Convention: no proposals to complete the agenda, we have not agreed to this and no one has opposed it. On the other hand, we said that they would go to committee because we have a one-day session of the Sejm and we would not be able to fit it. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws (print No 535). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the eve of the 100th anniversary of the victorious Battle of Warsaw and the 40th anniversary of the Uprising of the Solidarity Party, I have the honour to present a revision of the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons. The purpose of this amendment is to grant compensatory benefits which will partially compensate them for the economic effects of the repression suffered during the period of the Polish People's Republic. In addition, the project contains other measures to increase State aid for this social group, which will reduce the differences in the powers of persons involved in independence activities in the years 1939-1956 and 1957-1989. Those involved in the fight for independence and sovereignty of Poland in the years 1956 and 1989 were subjected by the communist regime to numerous repressions and persecutions. The most common were: imprisonment, internment, removal from the university, criminal admission into the army, deprivation of the profession, preventing the taking up of employment in selected places, dismissal of work, deprivation of promotional opportunities, censorship records, degradation of office posts, deprivation of prizes and bonuses. This catalog could be expanded very much. In fact, each of these persecutions has had a negative impact on the remuneration received by opposition activists for many years, and some of them have even resulted in their temporary deprivation. These repressions adversely affected the material status of subjects not only during their application but also later, even to this day. The consequence of receiving lower salaries over the years is the collection of lower pensions and pensions by current anti-communist opposition activists. The solutions proposed in the bill were born of the belief that it is necessary to partially compensate for the harm suffered by the communist regime by those who contributed to the overthrow of the totalitarian system and the rebirth of the democratic and independent Polish state. It is therefore proposed that any person with a confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person whose pension, invalidity pension or invalidity pension is less than PLN 2400 should be entitled to a compensatory allowance. The amount of this benefit will correspond to the difference between the amount of PLN 2400 and the amount of the pension collected by the entitled person. Such a solution will lead to State aid for those receiving low pension benefits. This benefit will also be annually, as in the case of pensions, valued. The compensation will be granted at the request of the entitled person and will be paid by the Social Insurance Institution or KRUS together with the pension and pension. Currently, around 12 700 people have confirmed the status of anti-communist opposition activist and a person repressed on the list of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. We estimate that about 9.5 thousand will benefit from this right. persons. In addition, the draft law provides for a number of powers for this group of persons, e.g. granting 50% tariff relief for public transport journeys and 51 percent tariff relief for journeys by public collective transport. I explain immediately that if such powers are granted by local authorities, they can continue to be granted on the same terms, because we will introduce mandatory measures, and those actions are optional. The second solution that we have proposed is to allow the Head of the Office for Combatants and Workers to instruct NGOs to carry out care tasks for anti-communist activists. The third option we propose is to allow the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed to report for health insurance and to pay contributions for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons who are not subject to social insurance or who do not receive a pension, which is the title to cover health insurance. The granting of these powers to anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons is another action to support the provision of people fighting for Poland's independence in 1939 and 1989, as they have not been able to use them in all cases, like other groups who are entitled to do so. The Act will enter into force within 30 days of its publication. The total costs of the project are estimated to be about PLN 60 million. These costs will be covered by the State budget. I would like to thank from this point on all anti-communist opposition activists who have been very much involved in the work, as well as the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons for their content support. I ask you to adopt a law on compensation for anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed, which we have proposed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the draft law amending the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons, print No 535. The amendment of the law on anti-communist opposition activists primarily serves to restore certain historical justice and a certain moral order. The heroes of our freedom, sovereignty and solidarity state deserve to be elevated to the pedestal, but they also deserve that their living conditions should be worthy, in this period of often completed activity, when they are authorities for modern generations, also their health, their living conditions should be worthy. High Izbo! The anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed in 1956 and 1989 have shown great civil courage, great attachment to the values of sovereign, independent state and dignity of every human being. These people have stood out over their generation. This Polish gene of freedom, which is in Poles, in these people was multiplied. Often under the pressure of prison, detention, often under the pressure of losing money, often under the pressure of the families of anti-communist activists, they stood by their values and acted. Often they were small groups, organizations that worked underground to sustain the spirit of freedom in the nation, organizations that helped in all these events of 1968 or 1970, or 1976, when the various groups of society protested and struck to help them to be close to the people who are fighting for human freedom and dignity. Today in this act it is, you can say, a small compensation for the harm of the communist regime, our great gratitude, but also the concern that this day should be lighter for them. We know that many Communist opposition activists have low pension and pension benefits, many activists after 1989. it has developed decent pensions, many unfortunately have lower pensions, and we want to change this situation. Therefore, in the proposed solution, we aim to ensure that this lowest pension benefit is the appropriate pension benefit for the person who has the status of opposition activist, the person being repressed, to be 2400 PLN, i.e. that this compensatory allowance, which is complementary to the amount of the benefit received, is often not much higher than 1 000 PLN. PLN, up to the amount of PLN 2400 gross was this additional benefit. The other arrangements mentioned by the Minister are in line with the powers that the combatants have, i.e. reliefs in terms of journeys, the possibility of commissioning non-governmental organisations to take care of such persons or the possibility of paying health contributions. Importantly, this compensation will also be granted to people who have left Poland. They left very often because they had to, because that was their fate. Ladies and gentlemen! We should all stand together. On the basis of the article. 51 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] Right and Justice, I request that you join the second reading as soon as you have finished your first reading without referring the draft to the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u12	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u13	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Print No 535, a government bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. The Act of 20 March 2015 on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons is highly socially equitable. Its aim is, for example, to improve living conditions in a minimal way to those who fought for our freedom and independence in 1939 and who themselves, often ill, are in a difficult material situation today. That is why we must support all legislative initiatives supporting our heroes. It is very good that veterans have the possibility of medical care outside the order, discounts on tickets and benefit valorization. However, I believe that printing amendment 535, according to which compensation is granted up to the amount of PLN 2400 and then income tax is levied on this amount to the State, is unfair. Thus, I believe that in the case of the impossibility of exempting veterans from income tax, the amount of benefit should be increased to an amount which, after tax, will be PLN 2,400 net, so that the poorest ones in fact will feel an improvement in the economic situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u14	Thank you, Member. Please, on behalf of the parliamentary club Left, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left a position on the law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. Firstly, the parliamentary club Left supports this government submission, believing that the periods of opposition activity in question were characterised by a lack of income, loss of income and a democratic legal state is obliged to compensate for these periods. Second, Art. 19 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the Republic of Poland specially cares for veterans fighting for independence, especially the invalids of war. It is also a constitutional obligation for us to fight for independence. However, I would like to point out in the context of the previous speaker's proposal that this solution provides that those entitled, i.e. anti-communist opposition activists and those persecuted for political reasons, these 9,5 thousand. In addition to compensatory benefits up to PLN 2,400, the persons referred to by Minister Swed will also receive a cash benefit of PLN 441,77, on the same basis as the veterans and the oppressed. Therefore, this will not be the only benefit that will be received by anti-communist opposition activists as a result of this law. Secondly, we are introducing this solution, it is true, identical solutions as in the law on combatants and repressed persons - solutions related to communications concessions in public transport and public transport. Thirdly, we are introducing a solution that will probably affect few people, but still important. Namely, when it comes to those persons who do not have a title to pensions, they will not be able to pay the health contribution of the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. This is a very good solution and the same solution as the one that works in the law on combatants and repressed persons. I think we all agree that this solution needs to be adopted. But on this occasion, I would like to draw attention to one thing. We're talking about people who are particularly well-deserved, that's true, about 12,000. persons, 9,5 thousand. eligible. On this occasion, it is worth signaling that after the valorization of pension benefits in the current year 333000. people in Poland do not have a minimum pension, i.e. less than 1 000. zł. This must also be the subject of our House's attention and the work of the government. Moreover, this lowest pension, today raised systematically, today at the amount of PLN 1200, should also be raised systematically. In this case, we tried at the beginning of the year on the draft law by the parliamentary club of the Left to raise the lowest pension to the amount of PLN 1600, but the votes of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform were rejected. It is a pity, because it would also apply to those people who today receive these low benefits, and are particularly well deserved for Poland. In view of the important issue, a well-counted, reasoned bill was presented at the government's initiative. The costs of implementing this law are about PLN 62 million, of which 59 million are compensatory benefits, further, compensation for carriers, also funding for care activities provided by NGOs. The Left Member's Club is in favour of the request to move to second reading without delay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u16	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u17	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a very important project, I think that our commitment as High House to those who have fought for years to make Poland independent so that Poland is a sovereign country. Fifty years of constant raids, fighting, many mistreated, abused, forced to leave the country. Today we lean on this problem. I think it's very important, and I don't think there's gonna be anyone here to question that. We are committed to these Poles, these people. And just as the universal solidarity that took place did not divide Poles, we should also adopt this law here. But, by the way, it is also worth discussing the issue of pension benefits for Poles and seriously considering their realization, as my predecessor said here. There is a simple solution at the moment - the abolition of pension tax. Maybe if not for everyone, at least for those who have these benefits at a very low level. Because there are people who have also sacrificed themselves for the country, and today they live at a very low level, they have these benefits at a very low level, such as women who raised children and could not work or work for the lowest benefits, while still raising several children. Today they resent you for underestimating it. And here, too, we need this solution. There is, on the other hand, your marshal, a citizens' project to abolish the pension tax. And if we were serious - we already had the first reading of this project in the Sejm, 40,000 signed under it. It would be a good step towards supporting pensioners and pensioners. Retired and retired people are always asking when we're gonna get back to it. The same is true of raising the tax-free amount, but this is already a broader issue. On the other hand, as far as the citizens' project is concerned, it covers only issues relating to pensioners and pensioners. And I have a request to your marshal that with his authority and his actions, the committee to which the project has been addressed take care of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u18	Thank you very much, sir. There you go, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u19	Once again, God's blessing to all brave people, to whom each one of us should feel a debt of gratitude! As a director, I spoke with representatives of probably all the formations of, so to speak, the front line of the opposition, which here is so nicely called anti-communist opposition. Very often, they were lonely, lonely, suffering, and therefore unable to identify themselves today with some visible disability. Poor is the only I.D. that's left for some. But these are people who are very proud, so very often they will be reluctant to reach out for their benefits. I remember all those people from the war and post-war conspiracy that I had the privilege of talking to on camera and off camera. I recall the heroes of Poznań's June, the last uprising, remembering the heroes of the December provocation on the Coast. And so to remind myself, however, I am getting to the heart of the matter, because I realise that when Janusz Korwin-Mikke submitted his famous draft resolution in this House, it contained some very important additions. The mirror was intended to cover security agents not only blue, but also green. The subject was not taken up later. The subject was later not taken up, and the fact is that the military security, despite the enormous efforts of Minister Macierewicz, the Green Guard, had plenty of time to carry out the remanent itself and submit to this quasi-automatic liquidation. Therefore, today's story, ladies and gentlemen - because such beautiful words from this speaker were written here: heroes - is unable to decode themselves. IPN historians are not able to reliably assure us that those who have been shown to us as heroes, such as TW Bolek, Lech Wałęsa, are indeed. So here we go, let's try to veteranize the wrongs, but let's finally write this story properly. There will still be an opportunity to come back to this on the resolution on Lublin July. [[There was no army in his project)]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u20	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, a law has been introduced in our parliament to compensate those persecuted during the communist period. It is intended to be financial compensation, to be compensation granted after 30 years, to be compensation in principle after so many years to a large extent symbolic. However, what is really important is that those who were the perpetrators of these persecutions, today, when law and justice have been ruled in Poland for 5 years, the party which presented itself to society as anti-communist, those who were active participants in the apparatus of persecution, can still have various privileged positions, also financially privileged. What we would expect from a party that has represented itself for so many years as an anti-communist is a comprehensive decounization bill. Not to introduce footnotes in instalments into various laws governing the operation of various state institutions that representatives of the apparatus of repression cannot perform managerial functions, but to do so with one cut, one comprehensive bill. We know from the information on how such legislation has been implemented so far that it has resulted in exemptions going into dozens or even hundreds of people working in a state apparatus. Those who were the apparatus of repression, after 5 years of so-called rule. The right-wings are still the pillar of our country's staff and the ruling party is doing nothing about it, it is not presenting a comprehensive project. And one simple footnote would suffice: who worked in the service of repression of society during the period of the Polish People's Republic, does not perform managerial functions in any state institution [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he doesn't work for the safety of the organs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u22	Thank you. The questions were raised by five ladies and gentlemen of the House. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Member of Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The heroes of the anti-communist opposition deserve special recognition and the care of the state, but we also need to think about memory. This month marks the 40th anniversary of signing August agreements in Szczecin. It was not only a moment very important for the identity of the people of our city, but it was also a moment which became the foundation of subsequent democratic changes in Poland. To this day, the shipyard cemetery is not a memorial, although in 2017 Deputy Prime Minister Gliński promised that the government would engage in this issue, honoring the heroes of those days, supporting financially the construction, creating a memorial space in the former shipyard cemetery. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, the Minister hasn't fulfilled that promise so far, so I'd like to ask the Minister... Thank you very much. I would also like to appeal to the government on behalf of the people of Szczecin and Western Pomerania to stop marginalising our city and region and finally to fulfill these promises. It's very important for people who were heroes of those days. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u24	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u25	Minister! I would like to ask how many in this group of 9,5,000. persons entitled to the minimum pension, the lowest pension, or even the lower pension, are those who do not receive the full benefit. Are there people like that? Because it's important and important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Member asked the question which I was going to ask, but I will ask whether the government took into account the exemption from the tax of combatants, this is about the amount of up to 2400 PLN. And so I wanted to thank all my colleagues from Szczecin, from Gdansk and from anywhere, because I think that what we did, we all did as Poles. Therefore, I bow before you and ask you for one thing. Back then, we were together, hanging out, and it didn't matter who came from, what city. That's why today I'm asking you the same thing: let's be together. It's been 40 years since those strikes. I'm asking you to do one thing. Think about the fact that those plates we used to write on are ours, but they should go back to where they were. We have built a European Solidarity Centre and should remain there. Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk... And the health and safety room... Mr. Marshal! I'm just gonna say a few words. The health and safety room belongs to all of us, but we can't all use it. Thank you. [[Applause]] You guys haven't done anything about this room to make it fall apart... Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u28	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law provides for a provision which allows eligible persons, those who have fought as part of an anti-communist opposition, to benefit from public and collective transport reliefs. But that's the solution that's in the article. 13a, in particular paragraph 1. 1, may harm the entitled. Why? Because some municipalities already apply higher discounts, up to 100% And with this recipe, we will find that not only will we not improve the situation of these people, but we will even make it worse. That's not true. Therefore, in further work on the bill, we will propose a revision of this provision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm signing up for Mrs Henryka Krzywonos' appeal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u30	Mr. Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important bill that should have been in the High House many years ago. It is a gesture of solidarity, today's solidarity towards all those who fought for free Poland in communist times, risking their lives and showing great civil courage. Therefore, the question of dignity concerning increasing the pension part, access to health protection as well as discounts in communication is the minimum that the Polish state can give its citizens who had the courage to fight for Poland fully free and independent. I agree with all the proposals made by the Civic Coalition to release, first of all, pensions, which are still small, are about the amount of PLN 2400, from tax, to increase the opportunities for communication discounts, because many municipalities have a 100% discount. These are just the necessary elements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a gesture of solidarity especially for generations of freedom towards the people of the generation of Solidarity. Thank you so much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u32	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Stanisław Szwed has the floor of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs for expressing their clear support for a law that will somehow compensate for the loss of a good pension by those who were activists of the anti-communist opposition and were repressed. There are a few questions here, so I'll explain a few things right away. The first thing you spoke of was relief. The mechanism that we are introducing in this provision will work as well as in the case of combatants, i.e. it will be a mandatory relief. In the case of local governments, this is optional, i.e. local authorities can apply such reliefs. There is no obstacle to this relief, e.g. 100 percent, it was done. There's no contradiction here. We hope that local governments will not withdraw from this because this is their optional action. There may be doubt in the language interpretation. This action we are introducing is mandatory. Everyone will be entitled to 50% or 51 percent relief, and local authorities can additionally introduce a 100% reduction. We know that such local governments are in Poland. We hope that this will be maintained, that it will continue to expand as far as this action is concerned. There is no risk that this provision will exclude the possibility of granting 100% reductions. As far as the question is concerned, we estimate that it will be about 9,5 thousand. persons. The average amount of pensions collected by these persons is about PLN 1500. I don't have the minimum amount of data at the moment, but we can estimate that the surcharge will be in the order of 900 PLN. That's gonna be an average surcharge. We've already talked about this, but I'm going to say again that today we're talking about this pension bill. We introduce this into the pension system. We don't put it into other solutions. Other solutions are in the Veterans Act, where there is a combatant supplement or a solidarity supplement in the amount of PLN 441 which is exempt from tax, from any executions. This supplement is at the same level for both the oppressed and the combatants. Within this plugin you can discuss its height, its increase. This supplement is also valuable. We started with the amount, as you remember 400 PLN, now it is 441 PLN. This solution is introduced into the pension system, which is why we could not exclude it from the tax system, because it is included in the pension system, concerns the whole pension system, because it is an equalization, a surcharge to this amount of PLN 2400. If we discuss the pension system when it comes to taxes, then this action will also be covered, because this action will be operated by the Social Insurance Institution or the KRUS. This payment will be linked to the pension benefit. There's one more thing that's connected to it. It's at the request of these people. We are fully aware that the anti-communist opposition activists were very much involved in the work. This information, through the Veterans' Office, through our debates and through the media, will reach these people to make this request. This list of activists who have the status of repressed persons is not closed, it is still open. Of course, this is a different number a month, because once there are 100 people, once there are 50 people, for whom the Office is responsible. The veterans shall consider such requests. Unfortunately, some people are already leaving because of their health or age. This action concerns the pension system. I think this is a minimum of what we can do for those who have fought for our independence, so that today we can speak on this speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u34	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of this draft law. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the bill? The Member shall report. First Member, right? One minute, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u35	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I thank Law and Justice for this lack of opposition. This bill, if it is today, hopefully passed by the High House, will be signed by your President in August. This will be a very significant contribution of the High House to appreciate all underground activists, the anti-communist opposition. On behalf of the parliamentary club, I would like to make two typically ordering amendments, such amendments which do not, in principle, change the merity of this law absolutely, and also to request an immediate transition to the third reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Using the debate on the situation of the oppressed, including the combatants, I would like to ask the Minister and the Government, in the past year's budget of the State, to increase the funds for social assistance for the oppressed, the combatants and anti-communist opposition activists. The laws, both the law on which we are discussing today and the law on combatants, provide for the possibility of granting one-off aid, for example for the purchase of a wheelchair or the adaptation of housing to the needs of a disabled person, or periodic assistance related to the granting of such environmental assistance, for example in the case of a social assistance fee at home due to disability and health. Today, these resources are not sufficient, and therefore a country that is to be jointly and severally with its heroes should spend more money for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u38	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that amendments were tabled at the time of the second reading, actually an amendment to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading after the text of these amendments has been delivered to the Members. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] Welcome. I was supposed to be in session a little earlier, but I thought it would be good for this point to be led by a marshal who is more appropriate to run this point. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021 (prints Nos 515 and 532). I ask Mrs Teresa Pamula to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021, print No 515. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 22 July 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The aim of the Act is to allow for statistical surveys which are important for the economy of the country during the pandemic caused by COVID-19. Four amendments were tabled during the discussion on the bill, which received a positive opinion from the finance committee. The Public Finance Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 5 August 2020, requests that the attached draft law be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u40	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Andrzej Noblet from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Law on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021, prints No. 515 and 532. The aim of this law, as has already been said, is to ensure the efficient conduct of statistical surveys, public statistics and to carry out the two nearest censuses planned in 2020 and 2021 under epidemic risk conditions for infectious diseases and SARS-CoV-2. In the field of statistical surveys of public statistics, it is necessary to create legal solutions which, under pandemic conditions, will allow for the continuous conduct of these research key to the national economy. The main objective of the proposed solutions is to guarantee health safety in the course of the statistical surveys carried out by both the investigators and the subjects covered by the research. The basic arrangements contained in this draft law relate to amendments to two laws: in the Act of 31 July 2019 on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and in the Act of 9 August 2019 on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. In accordance with the provisions of the Act of 29 June 1995 on public statistics, the carrying out of the census requires a separate act. Both the global agricultural census in 2020 and the national census of population and housing in 2021 are very large undertakings of an organisational, methodological, IT and financial nature. The subject-matter and scope of these censuses are in line with the requirements of the European Union, but also takes into account the needs of national customers, reported during inter-ministerial and social consultations. This will meet the information needs of the public, public administrations and scientific institutions. The general agricultural inventory is intended to provide a number of basic information on agriculture, including agricultural holdings and users, data on land-users' area, area of sowing and livestock population, agricultural labour expenditure, household income sources, means of production, farm buildings, non-agricultural activities on the farm. The general agricultural census will be carried out in the country between 1 September and 30 November of this year. The Act assumes that participation in this inventory is mandatory. National census of population and housing will be held in Poland from 1 April to 30 June 2021. In both censuses, the President of the Central Statistical Office is led by the President of the Central Statistical Office as the General Commissioner for the census. In the area of the voivodship, the census work is headed by the voivodship as the voivodship census commissioner. As a result of the pandemic, there is a need to extend access for public statistics to identification and address data, inter alia. Phone numbers, from new data sources. All these tasks are included in this draft law, the first reading of which took place on 5 August 2020 at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill with four amendments included in print No 532. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u42	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Rosati, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u43	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! Before I refer to print 532, I would like to thank the High House for rejecting another bill, which came to our vote today, namely the draft law on impunity for officials and high-level politicians of Law and Justice for their decision-making during the pandemic. I would like to say to you that this is an international scandal project that introduces complete impunity for the high officials of the current authority on the pretext that they are acting under a higher need. The project, which includes several sentences, relieves responsibility for such abuses and dirty interests as we observe in the Ministry of Health on a scale of several hundred million zlotys, or at least the cost of preparing so-called. postal elections amounting to PLN 70 million. Such legal regulations represent another step in destroying the rule of law in Poland and I really respect my colleagues from the PiS so that they do not go this way. There is no way by law to systematically repeal the liability of officials for their decisions. You're in charge and you're in charge of what you're doing. And now I'm going back to print 532, which concerns, as has already been said, the draft law on amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing. I would like to say in advance that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will support the committee's report, and will support this bill with amendments. These are quite natural adaptations in the legal provisions concerning the statutory activities of the Central Statistical Office under pandemic conditions. I am just pointing out again because I already talked about this at the committee meeting to pay particular attention to two things. Firstly, the Act introduces specific powers as regards access to personal data, which is justified by the fact that both in the case of census activities and in cases where certain data are collected under the Public Statistics Act, the Central Statistical Office and its agenda must have access to certain personal data. We have pointed out that this will not become a gateway or open the door so that this personal data can be made available to third parties who do not have the authority to do so. This is the first point: to ensure the privacy of these data so that the COVID, the pandemic situation, was not the reason that access to these data would be unauthorised. The second thing that we've been paying attention to is to ensure security in the course of the census. In some situations they will have to face the citizens personally during both the agricultural census and the housing and population census. We have called and called on the Central Statistical Office to ensure the security of the accountants, and also to ensure that the visits of the accountants are not, do not become, a relay chain, the chain of transmission of the virus between the different places of residence or between the different locations. We have heard the assurance from the President of the Rozkrut, from the Central Statistical Office, that these concerns and our concerns will be properly taken into account and the Office will do its utmost to ensure that the inventory is held in a secure manner. As I said, Mr. Marshal, the Civic Coalition Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Maciej Gdula, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen! Mr. Member and Messenger! I say that because today there is a political division between those who impose what to call them and those who respect what people want to be called. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to present the position of the Left Club on amending the laws on public statistics, the general agricultural census and the national census. Let me start by saying that this is an extremely important and important study. If there weren't a census, we wouldn't know it was 800,000. people in Poland declare themselves as Silesians. We would not know about the existence of such a large minority, people who are convinced that their identity is Silesian, as well as Polish, but 400 thousand. from them only declares the identity of Silesia. We wouldn't know that from the polls, from the official records. We wouldn't know, either. that 1 million people in Poland do not declare attachment to any religion, they simply consider themselves non-denominationals. That's also an important thing we wouldn't know. We would not know this in a very precise way, because if the polls tell us with a high probability and approximation, how things are, then the national census gives us a very precise, certain knowledge. This is a very important tool: and for administration, and for scientists, but also for us as Poles, Poles, for society. We can look at ourselves - this is extremely important - and learn about the health condition we are in, how we live - this is a very important issue - and what migration processes look like. We wouldn't know that if it wasn't for lists that show very, very precisely what kind of society we are. What changes are proposed in these laws? First of all, these changes are related to the epidemic situation. The point is to limit the contacts of the census accountants with the surveyed as much as possible. The second thing, and this is extremely important, is that the 2011 trend is sustained, so that the census is kept by the citizens themselves and the citizens themselves. This is extremely important, because on the one hand it reduces costs, develops social competences, but on the other hand it creates new digital competences. The fact that we can do it on the Internet is a step in the right direction. With the epidemic, you can see how important these competences are. It's a good thing we're developing and strengthening them. There are a lot of detailed solutions here that I will not introduce you to. But these are good solutions, those that allow you to flexibly relate to the situation. On the other hand, there are two points that I would like to draw attention to. The first concerns are that the provisions relating to minimum wage and minimum wage for hourly work will not apply to census accounts. You may have doubts that someone will be abused, that we are dealing with abuse. But the work of census rankings is, first, a job done every 10 years, and second, the census rankings will have a very different efficiency and activity, because it is not known how many people will actually do their job on the Internet will make a self-writer. The suspension of minimum wage rules therefore makes great sense. The second doubt I have is the question of payback for interviews. I hope that these salaries, which are included in the bill, will not limit the scope of recruitment for the post of census accountant, that is, there will not be a situation where there will be a shortage of people who want to make a census. I hope that this money will be enough, but maybe we should still think about it. In general, the Left will support these solutions that I have been talking about and presented to the rapporteur of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL - Kukiz15 vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021, prints no. 515 and 532. Statistics are needed both to assess past actions and to support strategic decision-making. The previous agricultural census took place 10 years ago and showed clearly how Polish agriculture and the Polish village changed after joining the European Union. This will assess the impact of EU aid measures on the modernisation of the food sector. It is a prerequisite, of course, for it to be properly carried out, so that the proposals are helpful, not merely confirming and justifying certain acts of authority. The general census of population and housing is intended to serve to diagnose the current state, including especially the standard of living of Poles. It is also worth analysing the impact of social programmes on living standards, including the level of poverty in both urban and rural areas. The project introduces changes aimed at the smooth implementation of both censuses under difficult conditions of COVID-19. It therefore takes into account the possibility of obtaining data from administrative resources and the use of Internet technology. The main aim of the changes is to obtain correct statistical information while not endangering the health of the surveyed as well as the auditors. Our club will support this project because properly acquired knowledge is essential for a rational decision-making process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u49	God bless you! Ladies and gentlemen! Such lists are totalizm of clean water. This is not an argument that the European Union wishes to look into its pockets and measure the copper of every Polish host. And when the Warsaw government joins in this and wants to know the size of our apartments and learn other interesting things, then of course I will run away with screaming and support such a project I will not, and also my colleagues will encourage. I don't think I'm gonna have to get you to do that. It reminds me of something more serious here, however, as a reference point for you to leave. It reminds me that a classic text begins with words that it was in the days of Caesar Augustus, who decided to write everyone in his country, in his land. And you know, this is the beginning of the end of this great empire - the moment when the emperor wanted to meet all his subjects and learn not only what the neighbors know, i.e. where they sit, but also what they eat, how much they earn, what they do. Let's have some privacy, for God's sake. Freedom, Tom, in your cottage and whom I invite to this cottage, it should be the case of every free, normal Pole. Whether an expert census accountant is to be just a virtual guest, whether on the phone or on the Internet, or with the police company, he will visit me because I, contrary to this nonsense bill, will not call the office and report that I am prepared to submit to this census procedure. We have probing techniques, we have excellent specialists in researching reality and there is no reason for every free Pole to report power - not only Warsaw, but also Brussels, and it is known that as Brussels, then all empires in this galaxy will have access to this data - to report how he is doing. Let's keep this old-Polish treatment of our home as friendly, open, but not for gunshots, bastion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u50	Thank you, sir. I would like to invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, the Confederation's Parliamentary Circle. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! If some foreign government wanted to know everything about us, we'd say a disgusting spy. But a foreign government based on this message can't issue some bill that would hurt us, and our government can. As we know, most of the laws that are issued are later cancelled as harmful laws. And they're made on the basis of these censuses. The more the government knows about us, the worse it is for us, because officials tend to do something. If they didn't know what was going on, they couldn't have done it. For example, in education, if the government didn't know the size of the class, how many students are there, then it couldn't have issued some idiotic bill that in each class it was necessary to do this, this and that. Any such information the government has enables it to manage the state completely. And we as a party that opposes totalitarianism, which believes that the free market should operate, believe that there is no reason for the government to know anything. I wanted to remind you that it's said that these are the necessary messages. Well, for example. for the economy there is not a single message that would be received during the census. If I'm producing something, for example. Cars or, I know, stockings to Egypt, and I want to know if to produce, I don't need to know how many of these stockings have been produced, I want to know how many of them will be needed next year. But there's no statistical data. I'm not getting the data. All of our data is based on the future, and the past isn't. Well, I repeat, this kind of gathering of information causes the government to sit on a huge amount of information. The only thing he can do with her is hurt us. That's why we're against spending money on it. And by the way, the European Union can also harm us in various ways, and we must therefore fear not only our government but also the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u52	Thank you, sir. I cordially welcome the President of the Central Statistical Office, Mr Dominik Rozkrut, and I cordially ask the President to speak. The speaker is yours, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much. I will try to refer briefly to the positions presented here. In particular, I would like to assure Professor Rosati that we are not currently conducting research in such a way that we are sending raiders to addresses, due to an epidemic situation, we are trying to carry out all interviews over the phone. Similarly, amendments to the Act will be implemented as a general census. As far as these specific rights are concerned, we have already had them when it comes to accessing personal data. Here appropriate derogations are also included in the Data Protection Regulation, so-called. GDPR. For public statistics, this is a global standard for statistical systems. As for this small remark from the representative of the Left, I do not remember, Gdula - the minimum wage. We are actually paying for the fact that there is a census interview and assuming that this interview is carried out at a normal rate, then, of course, this salary is much higher than the minimum hourly wage, so I don't think there is any problem here. These rates are really not very calculated, but we now have an agricultural census of 5,000. We had 15,000 seats. candidates, so I think we've got a good shot at some expectations. As for these last comments on whether the census is needed or not, let me say briefly: If it were not for the census, there would be no information on inflation, GDP, unemployment, many other statistical results, because this is all highly integrated. And, of course, censuses are a global standard, not even an EU standard, but a UN standard. If we hadn't implemented them, we would have been the only country in the world that hasn't implemented these kinds of activities. That's the point. It is precisely because some information is unfortunately needed for the management of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u54	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, take a half minute before we move on to the next item on the agenda. Marshal Terlecki has been appointed to lead this point, who, as I know, is lurking near the courtroom and is about to enter this room. So I would like to thank you all very much for a pleasant morning with you, and I will sit in the benches... And I'll be lurking. ...and I will observe the grace of Mr. Marshal Terletsky in the conduct of things that are not easy. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 54 hrs. 11 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties (Print No 551). I ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome. The Member will act remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Am I heard and seen? Yeah, and we don't need to see the details. That's the rainbow. You're welcome, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As rapporteur, I have come to present the main solutions contained in the Commission's draft law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties, Parliamentary Printing No. 551. This draft was unanimously adopted by the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on 13 August 2020 and addressed to the High House. It has gained acceptance of representatives of all parliamentary clubs present at the committee meeting, which may be a signal for treating this proposal as a project with inter-club support. The aim of the bill is to implement the remuneration of public managers. These salaries have not been increased in recent years and in the case of Members, Senators and Self-governments have even decreased by 20% in 2018. At the same time there was an increase in average and minimum wages in Poland. In the last 5 years alone, the average salary in the national economy has increased by more than 26% and in the civil service corps by more than 21.5%. In the same period, the basic amount on which the remuneration of managers of public positions was established increased by around 1%, i.e. up to PLN 22 96 and in the last 16 years about 6%, i.e. by PLN 114 79. The second objective of the proposed law is to align the remuneration of representatives of the main judicial authorities with the remuneration of persons performing managerial functions in the competent legislative and economic authorities. On the contrary, of course, the correlation between the remuneration of persons performing managerial functions in the designated authorities with the remuneration of judges, representatives of the main judicial authorities. The division of power beyond the principle of equivalence, independence and mutual control should also take account of a proportionate balance in remuneration. The bill provides for a systematic change in the way in which the remuneration of public service holders is shaped. The essence of this change is to link the salaries of persons performing state and local functions, in the organs of the legislative and executive... [[Disruption of reception]] ...and not so far with the basic amount set out in the Budget Act each year. This solution is modelled on the rule adopted for calculating the remuneration of Members of the European Parliament as a percentage of the remuneration of the Judge of the European Court of Justice. This is the result of the article. 11 Decision of the European Parliament of 28 September 2005 adopting the Statute for a Member of the European Parliament. The adoption of the rules proposed in the draft law on the remuneration of managers of state positions will result in them staying in a certain proportion to the remuneration of judges of the Supreme Court, which means that they will also depend on the average remuneration announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office on the basis of Article. 20 point 2 of the Law of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The basis for determining the basic salary of the Supreme Court judge in a given quarter shall be the average remuneration in the second quarter of the previous year. Currently the multiple of this base is applied by multiplier: 4,13 . The draft law contains provisions specifying the corresponding proportions expressed in the so-called. payments of the remuneration of the managers of the state positions in relation to the basic remuneration of the Supreme Court judge at the basic rate. The draft law also regulates the mechanism for determining the remuneration of elected persons who hold key positions in the local government, while respecting the principle of autonomy of local government, which is based, as in the case of state executive positions, in proportion to the basic salary of the Supreme Court judge at the basic rate. The bill also proposes a solution to the remaining, as we know, in the field of public discussion of the issue of pay of the spouse or the spouse of the President of the Republic of Poland. It is proposed that this person should have a monthly remuneration of 0,9 payments of the remuneration of the Supreme Court Judge set out in the basic rate. The wife of the President of the Republic of Poland, although she does not take up a governing position of the state, does, however, perform free of charge important representation and support tasks of the President at the expense of her own job and career and private time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In practice, due to the duties of the spouse of the President of the Republic of Poland, the first lady is rather impossible. Thank you very much, sir. High Seym! On behalf of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I would like to ask the High Sejm to adopt the bill contained in Seym Printing No. 551. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u56	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honor of acting on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. The draft was broadly justified by the rapporteur. I would just like to add that for the past twenty years, when the salaries of the highest-ranking people in the country were fixed, they were reduced twice, they were reduced, for example. a VIP card has been removed in case of treatment. The wages when they were introduced were seven times the average wage. Today, these are not even two average salaries, so this proposal meets such a expectation that the State should be modest, but also that these salaries should be in proportion to what is happening on the market. Today, the salary of those in power is in terms of average or even lower management in the market. Ladies and gentlemen! As there is a longer break, a holiday break, it would have to be passed soon enough. I propose on behalf of the club that we move to second reading immediately without referring the project back to the committee. And that's what I'm applying to the hands of the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u59	God's greetings to all those who work for their homeland! And there aren't many of us here in this fine room. Classic species. I think it's the first time that I've had the privilege of speaking directly after the dominant majority. The Member represented the trend of monopolizing the political stage of the PiS combine with appetizers. Why? Because no one is speaking because we have already gone into the world such fake news that we have a nationwide love, as in the finale of Mr. Tadeusz. When there's a conversation about raises, all of a sudden they're all so determined, so vigor. There's nothing to discuss. And I understand that, because it is indeed scandalous that a Member of the Republic of Poland cannot pay fairly all those people whom he wishes to engage in work for the good of the Republic of Poland, and cannot on fair terms. In substance, there is no dispute. If you'd asked about the parliamentary offices like this, it would have been a topic to talk about, but you guys... Hypocrites, hypocrites. If all this is true, then why are you not bragging about it, why are you not talking about the moment of historical justice, about the fact that the balance in nature will now be restored when the Members rise? You put it in summer, pickle season, about noon. They're all gone. They're either on mushrooms or in the Caribbean. You want to push it through. You've made an appointment with a total opposition that's silent and doesn't speak. No one volunteered at all, did they? Mr. Secretary confirms it. No one came forward for discussion because it's indisputable, it's uncontroversial. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am nodding my head in substance, but I am protesting this kind of procedure. It's a morning drop until noon. That's how we're supposed to process it. This is embarrassing and outrageous. Continued Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u60	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u61	Once again, the government coalition stumbles over its own legs. First, it reduces these salaries, so that two and three years later it is a mistake to admit and raise them. It's like closing and opening the forest for completely incomprehensible reasons: once we close, once we open. When there aren't enough infections, we close up when there's a lot - we open it. Now it would be difficult to find a worse moment, to be honest, for such a decision, which is otherwise justified, because indeed the wages of Polish parliamentarians are record low for global and European standards. On the other hand, if someone told me to come up with a worse time for a raise like this, I don't think I'd think of anything better than this moment right now, in a post-epic crisis or actually in our midst of an epidemic crisis. Plus, there's an important thing missing here. There is no increase in funds for parliamentary offices, which is even more urgent and more important than increases for Members. At the moment, we are also raising subsidies for political parties that we, in the KORWiN party, are against at all. The National Movement has a slightly separate opinion, but we are certainly against raising these subsidies in this situation. [[Applause]] In addition, raising subsidies for political parties in the absence of an increase in funds for Members' offices translates into an imbalance between the Member and the Party, it strengthens this state. The party may employ experts and carry out legislative work in the Sejm, and a single Member does not actually have the possibility to do so, which makes the Member even more dependent on the political party. It is therefore appropriate to do the opposite. The resources for the parliamentary offices should be strongly increased. In Germany, it's 21,000. The euro per month for a Member, in the European Parliament, is already over 25 000. EUR per Member for remuneration. Meanwhile, the amount of money for our offices is growing slower than the minimum wage. This does not even keep up with the increases that the government itself offers to businesses. We therefore demand, above all, increases in funds for parliamentary offices, increases in lump sums for parliamentary offices. And if we are to increase resources for Members, it is necessary to make it dependent on parliamentary activity, introducing a daily diet like the European Parliament and not - on a lump sum basis: whether it stands or lies, 10,000. It's due. We'll hold off. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u62	Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time for half a minute. As the first Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition Club. There is no Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation Club. Half a minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! On a formal point: Could I encourage you to change the way in which the discussion is conducted? Please, you have time to ask. But as for the formal issue, can I first... No. You have time for a question now. Thank you. I'd like to know what that deal was like. 'Cause I read on web sites that all the clubs are for. But we -- we have positive pluses and negative pluses -- we're not a club right now. We are a wheel, a Confederate ring, and no one invited us to this company. We're not at all on this committee, after which you go out and announce that hurricane, everyone agrees, everyone likes it. So tell me who's dating and what he's dating. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u64	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill... Objection! I heard an objection from the Member. I'll justify it, Marshal. No, thank you. There was an objection in the discussion. We will consider this objection in the voting block. In this situation, I propose a three-minute break so we can set the right order, the next move. [[Wait a minute.]] We'll vote now. I therefore declare a five-minute break and ask you to prepare for the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 12 h 12 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda... Let's check the quorum. Please press any button to check the quorum. 360 Members voted. We've established a quorum. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. In view of the proposal to move to a second reading of the draft law, objections were raised. I will put to the vote the proposal to proceed to the second reading of this bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to join the second reading of the draft law in print 551? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 375 Members voted. For - 347, against - 21, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the proposal and thus agreed to join the second reading of the bill. I'm calling a five-minute break. Your marshal calls the Senior Convention to the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 30 hours 12 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. This is obviously the second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at second reading? Yeah, I would. There are two Members. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Braun. Member first? Are you resigning? I can step aside. No, no, please, sir. You're not giving up. Then Mr Grzegorz Braun. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u65	I bow again in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! The mission allowance since 2013 is PLN 30 in Poland, right? Maybe this is a serious subject, because we should not travel too much, but we should sit here and advise for the good of the country, while our country and the world run around, our countrymen want or do not want, sent by their superiors, have 30 PLN. For what, exactly? It's on the cotton balls, isn't it? Why don't we reduce the tax-free amount for all our fellow citizens? Why don't we do it? You're gonna make it, it's gonna be a minute and a half at the committee meeting. Let's complement it, let's put it into this bill, because it's not a problem for Law and Justice with appetizers. Let's proceed to this afternoon and get out of here with a sense of the best duty. I propose this, this is my constructive proposal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't let it be that we're boycotting something here: an amount free of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u66	Thank you, sir. Mrs Klaudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition Club. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u67	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wouldn't want to talk about whether this law should be supported or held back or opposed. I understand that Members, the highest officials, have the right to decent wages. I just have a question for the PiS. I would like to ask: If these raises are passed, will the highest PiS officials stop stealing from you by creating mafia structures, as was the case in the case of the purchase of masks or respirators, the construction of two towers at the Silver or the Polish National Foundation? Tell me clearly how much money you want to make so you don't have to make extra money on the side, do different machoi. 20, 30, 40 grand. This will still be cheaper for taxpayers than what you are doing now than what you did on the occasion of the COVID, because judging by Mr Czarnecki's abuses in the European Parliament, the sum of 12 or 14 thousand. Evil may not be enough for you. It is known that serving in an authoritarian party and getting rid of all values costs and no one has any doubt that you do it for free. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u68	Madame, there is no such thing as foolishness, which is why I did not interrupt you. Mr Marek Suski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club has consistently supported the draft law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties, but we wanted to make amendments because it is about clarifying certain provisions, editorial and legislative adjustments. This is a change of heart in some places. Amendment 1: in Article. 1 the words "Secretary of State, Under-Secretary of State and voivodeship" shall be replaced by "Secretary of State and Under-Secretary of State." In point 2 of Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 4 the word "persons' is replaced by "workers' (the bell) and the word "remuneration' is replaced by "quotas'. The other amendments - I am running out of time - are also based on the fact that local workers can benefit from changes in salaries in the national budgetary sphere. And one more request, requesting that this be put to the vote without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals made so far with regard to the law. On the hands of the marshal I make these amendments and a proposal. Rejected!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u70	Thank you very much. There is no need for a proposal against it, but a proposal to join the third reading of the bill was submitted in the discussion... Mr. Marshal... ...after serving you and your fellow Members with the set of amendments that you have tabled. I don't hear any objections. Mr Dziambor. I didn't object, but I asked for a vote. That is no longer an option, sir. I didn't hear any objections. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. That's an objection. That's an objection, Mr. Marshal. Objection. Mr President, you are late with opposition. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media of the Message on a draft resolution on commemorating the merits of Jan Kowalewski for independence of the Republic of Poland and stopping the expansion of communist Russia (prints no. 511 and 530). I ask Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u71	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a resolution to you and to speak about a resolution which pays tribute to the outstanding Łódan colonel. On the 100th anniversary of the Polish victory in the Battle of Warsaw, Jan Kowalewski expresses his appreciation for his achievements and his way of life and his memory, and at the same time he is a tribute to all heroes of that time. Jan Kowalewski was born in Łódź. He was very talented. After completing his studies, after the outbreak of World War I he was incorporated into the Russian army, while remaining an officer of the Polish Military Organization. After Poland regained independence, he was the organizer and head of the Department of the Second Radio Interview of the Cipher Bureau. In the summer of 1919, Jan Kowalewski broke the first cipher keys of the Red Army and from that moment began to have a significant impact on the history of Poland. During the 1919-1920 period, the department led by him took over and deciphered a total of several thousand ciphers of foreign armies, mostly Soviet. Professor Grzegorz Nowik, writing about the role of the Polish radio show during the war of 1920, told his readers to imagine that Piłsudski and Lenin played poker in 1920 and that in the behind-the-back leader of the Bolshevik revolution, Marshal Piłsudski saw all Russian cards. The activity of the office created by the intelligence ace of Łódź gave the Polish command insight into the secret key decisions of the enemy's staff and had a decisive influence on the strategic decisions of the chief commander, contributing to the Polish victory in the Battle of Warsaw. High Izbo! Here, in this Chamber, unfortunately, there is much more between us than there is in common, every day we argue about fundamental matters for our homeland and its citizens. I am a representative of this political environment, which believes that after 30 years of truly free, independent homeland we are witnessing the progressive crisis of a democratic state, and in front of our eyes the achievements of many generations of heroes fighting for our freedom, understood as the right to self-determination, but also the right and obligation to respect the democratic state and its citizens, to show it both by citizens and by representatives of the political class, and of course to show it equally to all citizens. I would like to believe that there are also things that unite us, that we have gratitude for our ancestors who fought for Poland, that we have pride in their countless achievements and sacrifices, that we have a deep awareness of the need to remember them, but I would like it not to be a stupid memory for a demonstration, a memory in the service of particular interests of some political party, but to serve something, best for the common good. Today's session of the Sejm takes place on the eve of the anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, in the year in which we celebrate the century of victory in the war against Bolshevik Russia. We all know how important it was for Poland and Europe. The resolution of the Sejm on commemorating the merits of Jan Kowalewski for independence of the Republic of Poland and stopping the expansion of communist Russia at this symbolic time is in fact a tribute paid not only to a young officer from Łódź, but also to all heroes of those times who gave their lives or were ready to give them to Poland. Let us therefore consider, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of Polish Members they wanted, for which Poland they died or were willing to sacrifice their lives. And by reason of this resolution, let all our fellow citizens reflect. I would like to thank all the members of the cultural committee for their unanimous support. As many as 30 Members, and therefore all members of this committee, the proposal, supported the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u72	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to say a few words on behalf of the Law and Justice Club about our distinguished countryman Jan Kowalewski, whom Poland and Europe can be proud of. Proud because he had a huge contribution to defend Poland and Europe against the communist storm of the Soviet army, which was going from Soviet Russia to Europe and had a plan to conquer the whole world, because the Communists had a plan to conquer the whole world and impose a communist system on the whole civilized world. It is our citizen, Polish, as the previous speaker said here, a citizen of Łódź, of whom Łódź can be proud. And we can say that such a patriotic attitude as the people who defended our recently regained independence, because less than two years after Poland regained independence, Soviet Russia already tried to take away this freedom from us... And so an outstanding representative of our nation, who deciphered Soviet ciphers, broke these codes, gave us the opportunity to recognize how wrong the intentions of our enemies who attacked us are. Thanks to his skills, to the team he led, that's what we had. We are grateful to all those people who fought for our freedom, our independence. Jan Kowalewski is one of the prominent people who made a great contribution. Later he continued working for the Republic of Poland, fighting communism, fascism and all those who wanted to subdue and enslave Poland. We thank him, express our great appreciation and are convinced that we are building democracy today, in the footsteps of Poland, which was rebuilding democracy. This democracy is fine. Poles choose their representatives, and these representatives fight for the best shape of our reality. Sometimes they argue, as you mentioned here, but yet we have a love for our homeland, a respect for the achievements of our heroes. I am convinced that we have more in common than we share, although in democracy it is so that the dispute is on the agenda. On the other hand, in matters of our homeland, the most important ones, we are together. With this resolution we are also together and I think that we will all vote as one husband in favour of commemorating Jan Kowalewski and his merits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to stress that the draft resolution of the Sejm on commemorating the merits of Jan Kowalewski for the independence of the Republic of Poland and stopping the expansion of communist Russia proposed to you on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the Polish victory in the Battle of Warsaw and in a year recognised by the Senate of Poland on the initiative of former Senator Ryszard Bonisławski and President of Łódź Mrs. Hanna Zdanowska for the Year Jan Kowalewski was unanimously supported by all 30 members of the Committee on Culture and Media. That's good news. The members of the committee had no doubt that the young officer from Łódź contributed greatly to the Polish victory over the Bolsheviks and deserved the recognition of the High House for its achievements and the way of life, as well as its commemoration. My city, Łódź, despite the difficult epidemiological situation, is implementing Jan Kowalewski's programme. Tomorrow in all the most important places of the city there will be numerous events related to Jan Kowalewski's person and other heroes of those days, culminated in a concert prepared by the Art Industry Foundation known from the organization of the prestigious Soundedit Festival. In the original arrangements the Łódź people will hear, among others. The 20th anniversary of the interwar period. The repertoire will therefore be a unique music lecture, commentary on the atmosphere of 1920. On 5 and 6 September Łódź City Hall planned a commemorative event commemorating Jan Kowalewski in Warsaw. By the way, on behalf of the organisers, I invite all your Members. This will take place in the Bathrooms, in the pavilion of the Office of the Program Soon it is to be built in Łódź, in the city, which is the capital of Polish street art, a large-format mural on the wall of one of the tenement houses in the center. It is developed a monodrama based on the biography of Jan Kowalewski and a radio auditorium is created. I trust that, to some extent, thanks to this resolution of the Sejm, similar actions will be made possible throughout Poland, and the merits of Jan Kowalewski, his talent, his achievements, his dedication, modern patriotism will become an example for all the next generations of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much and I ask the High House for your support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u76	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u77	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Jan Kowalewski - mathematician, linguist, cryptologist, lieutenant colonel of the Polish Army. He was a very educated man. He graduated from technical chemistry in Liege. He spoke German, French, Russian. He had a phenomenal photographic memory. After the outbreak of World War I, he was drafted into the Soviet Army. And then no one was gonna take his pension away from him. Russian, Russian. When he was assigned the task of creating a cryptoanalysis cell in the General Staff, he hired not Misiewiczs there, but outstanding professors from the Polish math school and mathematical assistants of departments. Jan Kowalewski's work had an absolute decisive influence on the strategic decisions of Marshal Józef Piłsudski and his staff, as a result on the size of our victory. It is human intelligence, knowledge, competence that has determined the outcome of the battle, not supernatural factors. The Battle of Warsaw was not a miracle, but it was the result of a concerted cooperation of the commander-in-chief, who in a critical moment for the country could hide resentments and personal resentment. Victory was achieved thanks to the solid work of the staff and the high skills of officers and soldiers on the battlefield. The names of the Miracle on the Vistula were used primarily by the enemies of Józef Piłsudski, unwilling to acknowledge his merit. Because they weren't there. This name was also taken by the Catholic Church, who was also reluctant to go to Józef Piłsudski. In the battle they died on the Polish side of 4.5 thousand. Soldiers and 25,000. on the Russian side, the Soviet side. Bolshevik. The Soviets haven't been here yet. 10,000. missing on the Polish side and 65 thousand. POWs on the Soviet side. All of them are to be praised because they died at the command of their commanders, as is the case with all wars. Today we have an opening after the renovation of the Museum of Marshal Piłsudski in Sulejówek. I wonder if that poster's gonna hang there, and if it's gonna hang, if it's gonna offend somebody, if it's gonna get scratched, if it's gonna be removed electronically. I hope that doesn't happen. Thank you very much. The Left Club will vote in favour of honoring Jan Kowalewski and his contribution to the battle, to victory in the Battle of Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u78	In this illustration, Commissioner, there is certainly a real rainbow. Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I present the position of the club in relation to the resolution of the Sejm from print No 530 on commemorating the merits of Jan Kowalewski for independence of the Republic of Poland and stopping the expansion of communist Russia. This year we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw and victory in the war against communist Russia. It was undoubtedly the merit of many outstanding statesmen and the merit of the heroism of Polish soldiers, but it was also the result of the strategic thought of Polish radio intelligence. His co-founder was a young engineer, Lt. Jan Kowalewski - a highly gifted young officer who became the head of the Bureau of the General Command's Ciphers. During the 1919-1920 period, the radio investigator took over and deciphered several thousand ciphers of the foreign army, mostly Soviet, which gave the Polish command the knowledge of the enemy's decisions and had undoubtedly influenced the fate of the battle. It contributed to the victory of Poles in the Battle of Warsaw. After the war, Jan Kowalewski continued to serve his country. For his attitude and commitment, he was repeatedly marked. Jan Kowalewski is also the patron of the military unit in Ogrodzienice near Grójce. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I recommend the High House to adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u80	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u81	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The world's not a football, the world's head is pounding! With your head! Your head! When people fight for victory in the Battle of Warsaw, it is undoubtedly, sleep. Colonel Jan Kowalewski is here in the first place. I would just like to ask Mr Piątkowski and a message with a disgruntled gender, how it happened that Józef Piłsudski, seeing as in the mirror of the opponent's card, said that the war is lost, passed command and fled to Bobby to say goodbye to his family. Knowing the cards, he shouldn't have done it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u82	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u83	You will finish Mr Sosnierz after me, Mr Marshal. I'm handing this message over directly. Again, God's blessings! Yes, Mr. President Korwin here is a very interesting topic that will only begin. The whole story is once again cemented and frosted in an imaginary form. It is clear that Józef Piłsudski, a man with a very rich résumé, has no participation in the Battle of Warsaw - neither at staff level nor at the front level. It's just that he's not here or there on these critical days. Then he writes in his memoirs that somewhere there he hears a rumbling of a distant front. And you worship this anniversary with the cancellation of the Polish Army parade on the pretext of a supposed pandemic. You want the coroner to confess even to the best soldiers, and the Minister of National Defense... His opus magnum on this anniversary is what? Encouraging the issue of four stamps on the 100th anniversary of the Miracle of the Vistula. This cannot be corrected - these delusions, misconceptions, which the Left Member has shown here. Mr. Dobromir Sosnierz will finish the voice of the Confederate circle. Of course, sleep. Kowalewsky brave, heady man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u84	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, you are referring to the heroes who fought for independence, while all four parliamentary clubs are racing to sell this independence for EU silver. I believe that you have no right to wipe your faces with heroes who, for this independence, were willing to die, since you cannot defend yourselves against the expansion of the European Union and for subsidies, for subsidies, for the poisoned money from the European Union, you are able to agree to submit to Poland under the shoes of EU bureaucracy. I find it extremely inappropriate that we celebrate this independence in a situation where we lose it. Therefore, of course, we are in favour of honoring the memory of Jan Kowalewski, while we refuse you the right to remove your breasts to unworthy merits, to the merits with which you are patiently fighting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u86	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 40th anniversary of Lublin's July - 80 (prints Nos 519 and 531). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of Lublin's July - 80, print No 519. In 1980 a wave of strikes and protests of workers took place in Lublin. Strikes, which were a total surprise for the then power, began on July 8, 1980 at the PZL Świdnik Communication Equipment Works. The direct reason was the increase in food prices in the factory buffet. The protest united many people: from locksmiths, milling machines and other physical workers to the entire technical section. The demands for greater freedom of trade union activity were very quickly attached to social demands, while the protest itself extended to other workplaces. Among the strikers who stopped their work were among others. Authorized Polmoto Service Station in Lublin, Agricultural Machinery Factory Agromet, Lubelskie Zakłady Naprawy Samochodów, Tężarów Factory, Lubelskie Zakłady Przemysłowy Skórzanego, Zakłady Mięsne, Lubelska Fabryka Wag, Drzewno-Chemiczna Spółdzielnia Invalidów. On 16 July, PKP Locomotive in Lublin joined the strike, in which 2390 people took the strike on 2410 workers, blocking the Lublin knot completely. At that time 79 establishments were already on strike in Lublin, and by 24 July the strike extended to more than 150 establishments employing about 50,000. employees. It covers almost all the most important industrial and construction plants in Lublin. PZL Świdnik has been asked to improve social and social conditions. In the locomotive room of PKP Lublin the announcement of awards and promotions and the election of a new union council representing interests and defending people of work was requested. Buddy, my friend, the fracture of the ww. postulates, i.e. Joining the job will undermine the action and purpose of others who do so for the benefit of our families, mothers, fathers and children - it was the end of the list of demands. A total of 1,200 postulates were added during Lublin Lipc. The strikers demanded a written record of the negotiated achievements. Agreements were signed in individual establishments, which improved above all working conditions. The important thing is that the communist authority in the case of Lublin region did not decide, as in previous years, to bloody suppression of labour protests. The Committee on Culture and Media requests that the draft resolution be adopted by the Sejm after first reading and considering the draft resolution at its meeting on 6 August 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u88	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, remotely. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am undoubtedly very proud to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft resolution on the commemoration of Lublin Lipc. This is a unique moment for the whole Lublin region, it is a unique moment for the participants of those events, but it is also a unique moment for me, as a representative of the young generation, a generation that was born in the 1980s, a generation that has lived for nearly 40 years in Lublin and in Lublin. 40 years ago, there was no lack of faith in success and readiness to face difficult challenges. There was no lack of great courage when the crew of the Communication Equipment Works PZL Świdnik started the strike. This strike took over 150 workplaces in Lublin. More than 50,000 participated in the strike. persons. Recalling Lublin July, we refer to what is most beautiful in our tradition, what is most valuable. That is when the communist authorities were forced to sign the agreement for the first time in history. It was a signal to workers across the country that there is the possibility of breaking the most difficult barrier, the barrier of fear. It was them, it was the people of Solidarity who claimed our dignity. At a time when it was hard to be brave, it was hard to hope, many believed that fighting made sense. It is therefore worth noting again that the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) was a voice calling for Poland a great voice of a nation calling for independent Poland, for Catholic Poland. To all those who opposed communist power, we pay tribute, memory and respect. These celebrations recently in Lublin, in Świdnik, all over Lublin were unique in character. On July 26, we gathered at the gala in the presence of the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mr.Matthew Morawiecki, we solemnly mentioned those events, honoring and honoring all participants of those events. We reminded you that it was from Lublin, that an avalanche moved from Świdnik. We reminded that before Gdansk August there was Lublin July. I ask the High House to adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u90	Thank you very much. Now Mr Michał Krawczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hence the avalanche that wiped out communism - he used to say sleep. Norbert Wojciechowski, who was a activist of the democratic opposition from Lublin and later a long-term local government. I remember when, as a young boy, I first heard this sentence from him, which he used to close his stories about events that took place in July 1980 in Lublin and in Lublin. Today, 40 years have passed since those events. 40 years ago, the workers of the PZL-Świdnik Communication Equipment Works were the first to take the strike, which spilled into Lublin and took over 50,000. people, more than 150 workplaces. Apart from WSK Świdnik, among others, there were strikes. Agricultural Machinery Factory Agromet, Truck Factory in Lublin, Zakłady Azotowe w Puławy, Zakłady EDA w Poniatowej or PKP w Lublin. However, the press, the radio, and television at that time are vain to find reports of these strikes. If any information on non-working betting has already appeared, the word "strajk" has never been mentioned. The inhabitants gained knowledge of what was happening, only from oral messages or from Radio Free Europe. Lublin July was unique in several respects. It was characterized by a great unity of strikers in many bets. The extent of strikes that covered the entire region was unique. For the first time in such a large strike, the authorities did not use force against protesters. The Świdnik plant signed the first ever agreement between the authorities and the strikers. For the first time, a government committee on strikes has also been set up. Today, when we recall the strikes that took place in Lublin in 1980 by the resolution of the Polish Sejm, let's also look at the context of those times. At the end of the 1980s, Edward Gierek's policy ended in the final crash, which led to huge debt of Poland, lack of goods in shops and the collapse of the economy. At the same time, in the government media Poles' eyes and ears were constantly saturated with propaganda of success, in which the rulers were presented as impeccably clean, outstanding hosts leading to the development of Poland. There was no place in them for information about any opposition action, there was no word "straight" in the word. During this time there were interruptions in the supply of electricity and gas, there was a shortage of food on the shelves. Poles felt humiliated by the need to fight for their existence every day. The situation in the country was so tense that a small spark in the form of price increases in the buffet at the factory caused a strike wave that spilled across the whole region. At that time, workers formulated the main economic demands, and formulated the first political demands, for example on the reduction of censorship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. In more than 150 factories in Lublin, the heroes of those times rebelled against the evil, false, authoritarian, destructive economy of Polish power presented by the lying government media as the only legitimate leading force of the nation. The rebellion of all the workers who undertook strikes in Lublin and Lublin signed up on the pages of Poland's history and moved the avalanche that soon wiped out communism. Today, 40 years after those events, after July and August 1980, let the common voice of all of us worshipping heroes of 1980 flow from the Sejm's building to Poland, also so that there will never again be a time of powerful power in Poland with a multitude of its citizens for nothing, rebellious people against each other, presenting a false picture of reality in the media subject to one another. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u92	Mrs Monika Pawłowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Left Club in commemorating the anniversary of July 1980. July 1980, August 1981, June 1989 - this is the time that moved the agreement that we have been waiting almost 44 years for. People's Poland is a time of gray, a time that each of us thinks differently. This period should be approached with a very large distance. Every person who was dead during this period must be educated and educated in such a way as to have the widest possible spectrum and the widest possible knowledge of what was happening to workers' strikes, but also how much was created during this difficult period for Poland. We must say out loud that Poland was rebuilt after 1945 from the ruins of World War II. Today we want to commemorate the events of July 1980, but we also want to remember that all those workers who were on strike in July 1980 also built the capital of today's Poland. I do not want to broadcast this political tone today because it should not have a political tone. Today, we should not stand in the political struggle for a resolution to commemorate people, to commemorate their struggle for rights, to fight for free trade unions, to fight for increases, to fight for a moment so that people can feel that they can get together in relationships, be guaranteed and recorded. We as Left are of the opinion that the Polish People's Republic was not a perfect country, but it was the only country we could afford at the time. The Soviet Union was very militarized. Warsaw Agreement, which at any time, as in Czechoslovakia, could come from the so-called. Brotherly help was a real threat to all of us. There were no political changes planned in July 1980. People rebelled against food increases, rebelled against imposing further changes in the pay system. Poland was in an increasingly difficult situation, already in a dramatic financial and economic situation. Fortunately, in 1989, a round table agreement came, where both the solidarity and then the authorities made the impossible, made a breakthrough which resulted in a democratic state, the first in the Eastern block, the first in the Eastern block free elections. We were pioneers, those who set the course. It wouldn't have worked without compromise. Lying to history, creating it only one way or making it seem like only one side is defining it is just wrong. Today we are clear that history is not black and white, but the events of July 1980 started (the bell) - just a moment longer, Mr. Marshal - events of July 80 started a wave of strikes, a wave of hope for change. We as Left, of course, will be in favour of the resolution in its entirety. We know how important respect for both sides is, we know how important respect for each person is, we also know how important distance is - distance to history, to reality and to plans for the future. The Left respects history, respects every man who sheds blood, remembers it, and does not want his memory to be lost, on the one hand or on the other hand, the political barricade, through distance, we will look to the future better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u94	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I present to you my position on the draft resolution, print no.531, on commemoration of the 40th anniversary of Lublin July. It was 40 years ago that events called Lublin July took place. On July 8, 1980, a strike began at the PZL-Świdnik Communication Equipment Works. Social demands were the reason. Workers demanded higher wages, better organisation of work and greater freedom of trade unions. This strike has extended to more workplaces. In total, about 50,000 took part in it. employees. Thanks to the strike action in many establishments, working conditions have improved significantly. But the most important thing is that the barrier of fear of communist rule has been broken. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I recommend the above resolution to the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! God's greetings to all the wieners, all those who hurried in Lublin and surroundings, as they might reasonably have thought at that time, to the call of their homeland! With respect, with gratitude to all the brave people, brave at a time when civil courage was not cheap, I must report here a small votum separatum. Well, you're showing off, I don't know what more, hypocrisy, ignorance. And bad history is the mother of bad politics. If we are not trying to do our historical lessons properly, going down to the bottom, to the essence of events, we are also operating with delusions and wrong, we are misdesigning the future, especially here in this room, especially in government offices. This is the day here, in the High House, that they enter the workshop, on the wallpaper of various sublime resolutions. And I, to be honest, don't know what's worse - or when the Left, continuing robberies, ungodly, anti-human projects... Anti-human? ...an anti-civilization, praises the winners over the Bolsheviks, praises those who rebelled against the communist power of the Soviet broadcast... I think I like it better when you guys pass a card here for Olga Tokarczuk for her lying book. Don't talk about history anymore until you've done your homework. What are the history lessons? Let's get back to the subject. Not only blue security, but also green security, but unfortunately still much of historical research beyond the horizon. Take note of this: Świdnik, FSC in Lublin, armored house, like in 1976 in Radom and Ursus, as well as in 1956, and in 1970, instigate this revolt troops, heavy betting departments (Dawn) and medium industry in which military security feels at home. And I think these are unexplored threads. I think that in order to properly celebrate heroes, it would also be worth learning more about the lies-heroes of that story. For if we do not do this lesson, then we will be more inclined to support e.g. political investment in Majdan, Belarus. Isn't that right, Mr. Venerable? If we miss it like a communist... Okay, sir, I've extended your time. That's enough. ...Soviet military security has arranged palace revolutions in KC in Warsaw... Thank you very much. ...it will be harder for us to draw the right conclusions for the future. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u98	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We don't have any questions. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 554. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Conventions, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objection... Objection! There's an objection. Then I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 25 hours 13 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. Traditionally, we'll check the quorum. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to press any button. I'm asking for a vote. 331 Members voted. For - 227, against - 25, holding 79. That means we have a quorum. We therefore proceed with the vote. In view of the opposition raised against the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and hearing the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles, we will settle this matter in a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of applying the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the hearing of the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and wheels, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. For - 261, against - 108, the 11. The Sejm accepted the offer and rejected the objection. Therefore, we proceed with the further procession. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion... Yeah, but first... We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and the Act amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints No 550 and 554). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media a report on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. It is a long title, but ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the bill is aimed at supporting our creators and artists, who, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, have been deprived of or greatly reduced in their ability to do business and therefore also to earn money. Therefore, this law is needed because no one expected how profound the effects of the pandemic, including the artistic world, would be. The aim is to ensure the continuity of cultural activities of an artistic nature carried out in all forms of organisation and law. There is a need to safeguard financial stability in the case of activities in different sectors of the national economy, in culture, in entertainment, in recreation. There is also a need to ensure continuity of access to national cultural objects, in particular to ensure safe participation in artistic events with the public and to ensure conditions for creating an on-line cultural offer of adequate quality and diversity. It is about implementing the right to participate directly in culture, in particular for groups with special needs: seniors, young people, people with disabilities, as well as meeting cultural education needs for all social groups. This improves the competence of the general public and improves its competitiveness, representing a long-term investment in human capital in the case of the Polish economy and science. Cultural people are a very valuable part of our economy, because they are the most creative people who bring timeless values into our economy. This law is expected to give local cultural institutions up to 40% lost revenues from statutory activities for the period from 12 March 2020 to 31 December 2020, of course compared to the same period in 2019. As far as entrepreneurs doing business in the fields of science, music, sorry, in the sphere of music, theatre, dance and non-governmental organisations doing business in the sphere of music, theatre, dance - science is covered by a different law - it is up to 50% revenue lost from ticket sales for the period from 12 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 This was also calculated according to data for the corresponding period in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! The procedure for the entry into force of this law was proposed so that the law would enter into force relatively quickly, i.e. 7 days from the day of the announcement. Of course, I will not mention everything that is contained in the Act, because time is running out, but I will mention that without a vote of opposition, the Act has been given a positive opinion by the Committee on Culture and Media. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be presented to the High House by Mr Marek Suski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions. I'm not gonna read the whole title, I was just quoting it. The point is to support artists, our culture world, which is also experiencing problems related to the limitations resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, although some say that there is no pandemic. Unfortunately, she is. There isn't. Unfortunately, he is, sir, even though you say he isn't. Explain this to the families of those who have died who are having a hard time going through this pandemic. This is manipulation. Those who pass it lightly may claim that it is missing, but unfortunately even some Members and Senators are sick of this rather, as it is, treacherous pandemic. Unfortunately, there are limitations and decreases in participation in culture, which is why Law and Justice have prepared a law supporting artists so that continuity can be maintained in order to support those who have lost their jobs, the possibility of earning. I think these are very valuable people who contribute to our culture, to our national heritage. In this difficult situation, the state feels obliged to help them. I have just presented concrete solutions that are written down. It is financial support for creators and artists in the form of social assistance, as well as financial support for actors performing artistic activities in the field of theatre, music or dance. It is also about self-government entities that deal with this so valuable to our culture. Like I said, the date of entry into force of this law is seven days. I can say on behalf of the Law and Justice Club that we are pleased that such a bill is because it will actually support our artists and creators. We're all in favour of this project. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u102	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr Adamowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to declare that the club will, of course, vote in favour of the proposed solutions, because this is the most important one. The most important thing is for artists and cultural institutions to receive this in terms of cooperation, because, if I am not mistaken, as Minister Lewandowski said at the committee meeting, the loss of artistic cultural institutions amounted to about PLN 423 million. This is very, very serious money, sometimes determining the basis of the creators, as well as the institutions themselves. I am saying that we will vote in favour, but I would like to allow myself to make some fundamental comments. First of all, about the procedure - we got this print yesterday. I got it when I got to Warsaw about an hour. 21. For God's sake, at this hour it was not appropriate to call people who could be consulted on the proposed solutions. Unfortunately, this is not the way it should be, and this is the way it is. Secondly, I would like to express my utmost respect and appreciation for the staff of the Legislative Office, who at the meeting of the Committee on Culture had a clear opinion on the quality of some of the proposed solutions, here I am talking about the legal quality, legal logic and the legal powers themselves. I can't say they were pulling their hair out of their heads, but it's clear they were very surprised, very surprised. Once again, I thank them very much for their quick, I hope, effective work, thanks to which the proposed solutions have simply been improved. Another point concerns - I reported this at committee meetings - the unequal treatment of actors. Well, as Mr Suski and the applicant mentioned, it is proposed that private individuals should receive 50% support. , while local government entities are to receive 40% support. In logic, this is an unequal treatment of entities. Minister Lewandowski mentioned that local governments will certainly add 10% At least that's how I remembered your speech. Then it'll be 50%. For God's sake, local governments, as you know very well, have suffered some losses through some reforms or quasi-reforms that they had never had before. They pay for these reforms. They also suffered serious losses under COVID. There has been a loss of serious tax revenue. These losses will worsen, the city guards have been assigned to counter the COVID. I don't know if the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration finally found the money to return it to local governments. So it's not so pink that local governments will suddenly find this 10%. That's actually what I wanted to say, hoping that... I know people are waiting for money, institutions are waiting for money. But Dalgod, if not 24 hours before the committee hearing, then maybe 36 hours... Then it could at least be in a limited form to consult. Thank you again. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will, of course, vote in favour of these solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u104	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to the High House by Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u105	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Today, at an emergency meeting of the committee at 3 p.m. 9 a.m., Marek Suski expressed his surprise that the representatives of the Left voted in favour of the project. Yes, sir. Every time the government, whether the PiS government or any other government, does something good for people, we're in. Artists are a very affected group because of the COVID, because of the epidemic, also cultural animators. That is why it is very important that they receive support. But remember, the Left will always scream loudly if you introduce censorship, whether against artists or against individual works of art. We will always be critical when in public media instead of missions, instead of programs with so-called. high culture will be only disco polo concerts. We will always shout out loud if the Television Theatre is just a propaganda tube of the IPN and direct the performances will only be able to determine the selected directors. We will always shout out loud and talk about it, if such outstanding works of journalistic art are created as the reporter's material from Lublin, who, in order to defame Lublin's local government, spread filth throughout the city, then the TVP operator filmed it and then created a properly defamatory material. It is very difficult to have a substantive opinion on a project that was posted at night. But this project was consulted with artistic circles, artists, cultural animators. That is why the Left will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u106	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Suski made a formal request, right? Or in corrigendum mode? In corrigendum mode, Your Marshal. In corrigendum mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u107	She said that I was very surprised that the Members of the Left supported this. I was not surprised, I was merely presenting as rapporteur information that the Members supported this, but it was not a statement of surprise, rather a more expression of satisfaction or recognition. While I am at the vote, I also wanted to make amendments to this law, the amendments that are in those counties which are in the yellow and red zones, the Council of Ministers, also through a regulation, could at least reduce these effects. It is a longer period for the collection of supplementary welfare allowance, as well as for remuneration to extend the period for lodging applications on the basis of which benefits may be granted in accordance with the applicable rules. It is also about the competence of the authorities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also Amendment 3, which, in the absence of time, I can no longer justify, but I am putting it in the hands of your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u108	Thank you, sir. I would also like to point out that you have abused the correction mode. Please don't do that again. Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska with the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to declare that our club will, of course, vote in favour of the solutions contained in this law. It is very good that they are, because when the provisions of the COVID Act entered into force in March, we did not realize at that time how much these issues would affect the artistic industry and the cultural world - I mean the institutions for which local governments are organized, the institutions for which the Ministry of Culture is also the organizer - the whole artistic industry and those conducting business activities, and above all the artists themselves. I talk to artists, I talk to cultural institutions, and I know that these losses are really huge. So we are pleased that this law will come into force soon and that it will be a lifeline for these institutions. What is not clear to me and what we disagree on is that the institutions for which the local government is the organizer will have a compensation of 40%. and others - 50%. I therefore call for all private and local institutions and state institutions to make up for this loss up to 50%. On behalf of the club, I declare that we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u110	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Dziambor will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding on this bill, paying attention only to what is loud, i.e. what you can see, so artists who are sometimes very popular, so they can make very big noise. They are often also people who have not yet gained their popularity, so now suddenly living quite modestly, but doing what is their passion, they had to go to other professions, very often to which they were not prepared. That's what happened. We've all had some real problems. On the other hand, we don't talk about the technical industry, we don't talk about those people who are in the back. There are quite few of them, they have specific problems. I know you don't listen to other politicians. I'm from the Confederation, and I know perfectly well that what the Confederation is proposing, the PiS usually rejects, without reading at all, so maybe don't listen to me. I will read what he has to say on behalf of this industry - I promised to read - Mr.Patryk, who is from this industry, one of the voters and sympathizers: The stage engineering industry, companies dealing with sound, lighting and scenes are already being auctioned and collapsed. These companies have been excluded as the first of the labour market and are until now practically further excluded. Each of these companies has loans, leases for equipment, rented warehouses, transport to be maintained and no orders or contracts. We hired a huge number of people on the market during the season. Each festival, sports events, city days, communes or conference meetings could not be held without our help. Our fiscal burdens are enormous. We have virtually no means of living at all, especially since the stage engineering industry is seasonal and this should be remembered. Please pay attention to us as well. These are not the words politics, these are the words of a man in the industry who has giant loans that he has to pay at this point, taking new loans or selling what he has to sell, of course if he wants to stay on the market. Ladies and gentlemen! These people are very few. Pay attention to them. Make sure anything good comes out of this mess. We proposed one very simple solution, which was mentioned by Krzysztof Bosak in the election campaign. We were talking about putting off loan instalments, moving loan instalments with state guarantees. You could've used it. You use some of our ideas sometimes. Think about it, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u112	Thank you very much. In the second part, Mr Grzegorz Braun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u113	God bless your show business buddies! From this reliable show business, which is hard work, not hooking up to government, local government, waiting for manna from heaven. Question: "Who do you really want to do right?" Who's gonna be in that ministerial switchboard? Will these be the creators of monumental artistic events of the Golgota Picnic type, or will they be the creators of exhibitions exhibiting various elements of a normal Pole? Who do you want to support here? I'm afraid it would be much better if you stopped helping, if you just didn't bother those people who know show business as a business, if you didn't make life difficult. And in some cases, as Mr Dziambor has just presented, you simply kill business by introducing insane rules of such a clear criminal, illegal nature. As you know, you have decided to bring here a bill that will guarantee you impunity so that you cannot be sued for the losses that your policy causes. Is there a pandemic? Of course, there is a false pandemic, a global psychosis developed and nurtured here by the Warsaw, capital and state authorities. You know, the more tests you get, the more infected you get. It was enough to change the definition of a pandemic and to consider it as a criterion no longer a victim, but just the results of tests of dubious quality. And please, business is going well, only the real interests of normal Poles are failing. There were such people, and maybe some still live, who will claim for the rest of their lives that Americans dropped a ton on Polish fields in the 1950s, because as young ZMPs they were taken to fields where they laborfully collected this ton of potatoes (the bell). Thank you very much, sir. Let's stop with the fake pandemic. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u114	In that case, the list of MEPs was exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was submitted to the bill, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading of the bill after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 15. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 07 hours 15 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 570. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objection... Objection! ...I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. We have already voted against on this issue once, Mr President. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: The Commission's report... But I opposed it, Marshal. Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'm out of my mind. Mr. Marshal, explain to us why you asked. Actually, I don't know. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Maybe I can at least justify it. No, thank you very much. We're not particularly interested. And he wanted to object to the fact that we are proceeding with the committee's report or to what? What were you asking? Because it turns out that unfortunately... Mr. Marshal, you've been proceding me at the right time... As always, Mr. Objection. Sure. I said, "objection." Now let's keep going. Let's proceed with my objection. Sure. You've given up my justification, so let's proceed. Why don't you justify that objection? No, no. Objection. We'll always have that now. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. Enough with the madness. If we resigned and accepted 1-minute speeches on behalf of the clubs, that would be fine, I understand. Because we have five minutes, and you objected. What's 1-minute? I'm offering two minutes, and as I understand it, there's no objection. This is important, Mr. Marshal. Very important, but you see... What can I do about it? We have what we have. Okay, we're voting objection. It's okay. We just don't know what the objection is. Why don't we start over: five-minute speeches. But the Member is questioning the five-minute speeches. Mr. Marshal will allow me to justify my objection? I'd hate to. [[Joy in the Chamber]] May I? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u115	God bless you! High Izbo! It's a fake pandemic. The criticism of scientists and doctors - it is worth referring to this publication. The criticism of scientists and doctors... Mr President, you object for what reason? ...not politicians and talkers... Uh-huh. ...only scientists and doctors. Are you the doctor or the scientist? Instead of performing with more rescue actions, it's time to stop. Destroy, disturb. It's time to stop ruining Poland... So the objection is against the five-minute speaking time or the point... ...by creating an atmosphere of fear... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u116	Mr President, what is the opposition to? ...wars in the glory of snitching, it's time to stop violating civil rights, so in theory... all of you... repealing citizens' rights to demonstrate, move around, generally do with their lives what we want. It's time to stop ruining the Polish economy... That's it, sir, you've already made your point. Now, the question is, do you object to the five-minute speeches or the acceleration at all? I support 105-minute speeches. There's no objection? There's an objection. There's an objection. Okay, let's vote. It's okay. He does not know what he is objecting to, but he objects just in case. So what are we supposed to vote on? But no one knows that, and neither does the Member. Mr. Marshal... But, sir, we've heard that before. Ad vocem. No. You're allowed to make a lunatic out of anyone here because you have a microphone. I'm afraid so. Ad vocem. Don't make this difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, in that case... In the 1950s, there were people who believed and still believe that the Americans were dropping a stool on potato fields. Okay, sir, that's enough. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints Nos 559 and 570). Objection. Vote your objection. But opposition to what? I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 559. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 14 August 2020 the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 14 August 2020, and therefore today, taking into account the comments submitted and the legislative amendments, calls for the High Sejm to adopt the draft law on printing No 559. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u118	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to appear remotely. You're welcome. Is Mr Kazimierz Smolinski... I know, but is he capable of remotely performing? Maybe we should leave the MP for now. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The tourism industry is powerful, accounting for almost 7% GDP. It makes her very, very diverse. Because it is not homogeneous, it needs to develop specific aid solutions. It is a pity, I also said this today at the meeting of the Sejm's Finance Committee, that today we are rushing again with legislation, such an express which does not serve good legislation, which does not allow for substantive analysis and for this project to be consulted well. We are not opposed to proceding, because in the project there are some of the many necessary and postulated solutions. Further months pass, and the government solutions that provide such comprehensive assistance and support to the tourism industry are still lacking. Entrepreneurs - practitioners who create the tourism industry - say one thing: we want to return to work and we want to rebuild demand. Because without the demand for services, none of the industries simply will survive, and we all know that. The government should take advantage of the knowledge of practitioners - entrepreneurs of widely understood tourism, because they are experts and know what support will bring tangible results. Today, in the middle of the season, only part of Polish tourism restarts. Tourism is not only filled beaches, famous mountain trails in the holiday season. We must remember that these are few hotels in Poland, partly private accommodation, and only in holiday regions. Individual tourism comes back to life, yes, but almost exclusively domestic. And Polish away tourism, foreign leisure and local science still works up to 5%, arrival tourism - in approx. 2%. This is worth mentioning in the discussion on this project. It is also worth noting that foreign tourism of Poles and visiting tourism to Poland is also Polish tourism. Tourist voucher will help, but only some and in fact only a few. Bon, Minister, will not help the tour pilots, will not help the tour guides, will not help the tourist transport, because these services cannot be paid for. The bon does not include adults, pensioners, and only children, so it is a bon that excludes voucher profients as well as recipients, because companies that specialize in e.g. in adult tourism, are not included at all. In addition to the support from the travel voucher 500+ will remain a significant majority of the industry. I think that this will also show any analysis and that it will be very, very clear that money will flow to places that, as I said before, have demand, i.e. accommodation by the sea, in the mountains, in Mazury, and will miss places in which in the age of the COVID pandemic are also in a very difficult situation in the summer - city hotels, business hotels, facilities that are located in less popular places. What kind of government can benefit from these places that do not have this demand? For example: according to the latest report of the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Hotels in July this year. 70% hotels have reported a booking rate of less than 40%, i.e. these hotels are still working below cost. Money from the 500+ bonus will also not be included in these objects. Today, the loss in the tourism industry is up to 70%. Most are small family businesses, small companies without employees, single-person businesses, including tour operators, agencies, pilots, guides, animators, consultants. Here the losses, Minister, were, are, and unfortunately will be for months, and unfortunately at 100% and the support was equal to the support of those whose losses amounted to only 15%. I would also like to hear from the Minister on the process and discussion of this project: Does the government examine and analyse the aid already granted and the assistance you are now trying to implement? Are you planning changes that will take into account the specifics of the sectors, or will the criteria for granting aid be changed so that the aid provided by the shields is more measurable? Because that's how it has to be done. All of this needs to be carefully analysed as a matter of urgency. Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this project, although many issues have not been raised in it, which leaves to be desired when it comes to supporting the tourism industry - support that should be, I will say again, more comprehensive at the end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u120	Thank you very much. Now Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do we have five minutes or two minutes at last? Five minutes, okay, good. The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, contained in print No 559, aims to support the tourism industry in principle. High Izbo! Today we are dealing with a truly, in my opinion, exceptional situation, because the draft of the group of members of the governing party is in principle going in the right direction. This is an unusual or rare thing in the High House. I firmly believe that, in principle, after the entry into force of these rules, mechanisms will be created to save many companies operating in the tourism industry. Today, it is very clear that the crisis in the tourism, entertainment and congress industries and their economic impact are much more extensive than the government had assumed in March, February or April. The current analyses, in the view of the applicants, force action to strengthen the initially envisaged aid directed to professionals such as artists, creators, tourism organisers, tourist agents, pilots and guides. In addition, it should be pointed out that the preventive measures taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 have also affected consumer behaviour, inter alia. in the industry related to the organization of fairs, exhibitions and congresses. In fact, the situation has changed from day to day and orders have been limited or practically removed for those who are involved. Many companies today have problems with liquidity and regulation of their public-law obligations. It is also worth noting that the project submitted meets the expectations of the above mentioned. industries. However, it has not been avoided, ladies and gentlemen, many or several errors, excluding in an incomprehensible way from many forms of support tour operators or restricting access to parking or exemption from the ZUS only to pilots and guides who work seasonally and excluding from this support those who work all year round. I believe that, in line with the declaration that came today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, these shortcomings will be corrected at the stage of work in the Senate. We'll hold you to that. It is also a pity that it was not possible to proceed again in a common sense mode, only in such an extraordinary mode. It's a trisolarian style - I don't know if you're familiar - but we don't live on Trisolaris, we live on Earth, so it's worth applying such standards on Earth to adopt and process laws. The Left is in favour of this project because the Left is in favour of any kind of support that can help to improve the situation of any needy group affected by the crisis. I hope that also other groups who are waiting for support, among others. The automotive industry will also be able to receive this support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u123	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! The Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will support this project, I will say this at the outset, because the tourism industry plus its friendly industries is a very important element of the Polish economy, having a very significant share of the GDP that this economy generates. I would just like to ask today, High Izbo: Why have you only now thought about the tourism industry in a comprehensive, real way? When we worked on individual shields, our Members, members of the Polish Coalition, even then raised this idea of a liquidity fund, for example with a view to the tourism industry. After all, already in April, in May it was known that it would be a dead season for the tourism industry and without a specific tool of this industry it would be difficult to survive. When the President, supported by the United Right, pushed for a travel voucher project, the Coalition of Poland, our parliamentarians reported the need to expand this programme to take into account that tourism is also agritourism to give a good boost to this industry. You can't just bring a tourist voucher to your children, you can only give the youngest the opportunity to use this tool. The effect is that today, few actors or insufficient number of actors are involved to participate in the tourism voucher programme. But as a majority of the Seyms, you were not interested in a real, factual conversation about how to respond comprehensively to the needs of the tourism industry. According to the folklore, it's better late than never. We will respond, as I said at the outset, positively to this proposal of yours, because it would be a great drama for our economy to put the tourism industry at risk. From this we would go out and rebuild this industry for many years, so it is good that tools are being created that will serve as support. But on this occasion it is also worth to realize - and this will probably again sound from our club - that the tourism industry is not just travel agencies. This is the whole transport sector that accompanies this industry. It is also worth remembering, because so far such a look has been lacking. If we look at it as a whole, we'll think about helping, then I think there's a chance to save the local tourism industry. At least, as far as the Polish Coalition is concerned, we are in favour of doing so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, because he was earlier... Now it will be. You're welcome. Are you an MP? I am, I am, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On 2 March this year, when the first COVID Act was adopted, no one knew exactly what the scale of this problem would be, which affects not only Poland but other countries. We still don't know. Today we know that nothing yet is yet accurate. We do not know at all. This is the scale of the huge problem not only of Poland, but also of Europe and the world. That is why it is so important to make decisions that are courageous, at a pace and that serve the economy. The Member is right, the economy is connected vessels. This is not only a matter of one zone, one sphere, but a much wider part of the economy. Some also include what is not only material but also spiritual. It's also an economy that's widely understood. On the one hand, we hear voices as to why it is so quick and on the other hand we hear why it is so slow. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing we're even trying. This is as fast as possible. This law, which responds to the existing state of affairs, as well as to what is happening around this industry, which is so important and developing in Poland, affects and regulates matters concerning the ability to reward employees of this sphere, develops vouchers, tourist vouchers, but also payments from the guaranteed fund and the issue of parking. So this is quite a wide range that allows for a soft, as they say, transition to this crisis. However, we do not know exactly what the further development of the pandemic in Poland will be. But at this time, at this moment it is a very accurate, very concrete undertaking, which in this law is proposed precisely so that the industry has the conviction that we - as Parliament, as the government that implements the laws - are a partner in this difficult situation. It's very good that this bill is being processed. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports this law in its entirety. He can only say yes. The point is that we should react quickly to this so that officials are aware that when they make decisions, they save the Polish economy and not calculate it, whether it's worth it - in the sense of thinking: maybe I'll risk something? Because their decisions are often decisions concerning thousands of jobs of Poles in our country and not only, because also those coming. For this reason, the legislative arrangements that we propose at the right pace are so important, also at the expected time of introduction of these provisions. At this point, I think, more broadly, as a club, that this is a very good solution. As I said, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u127	If only our compatriots, especially those entrepreneurs, can recover anything, if you can in any way recompense the losses for which no suspected pandemic, only you, power, the Warsaw government, the Belgian President and this Sejm are making them, that's good. We do not object to the fact that, in view of what we consider to be a refund of the overpaid tax, some money came into the hands of our compatriots. But don't keep up the fiction. Don't let one Pole on the other. In the last days and weeks you have begun to attack the Polish people again, you have escalated the national antagonism generated by you on the basis of - if even in the spring someone had doubts about it, it is quite clear today - unconfirmed misinformation. See: the statement of the Prime Minister of the Dutch Government, where in recent weeks it has been stated publicly that there will be no more forcing the Dutch to put on these pathetic masks, because - I quote - there is no scientific evidence that this makes sense. See Germany. Not only the multimillion-dollar demonstrations in Berlin and other cities, but also the committees that break down all this misinformation. Unbelievable tests, unbelievable procedures. What is fully reliable is the terror that you brought into Polish life with the kitchen door. You have initiated informantry and are also trying to do martial law in outsourcing, transferring to Poles the obligation to enforce these illegal, illegal, criminal practices that you have ordered. Polish traders, service providers are supposed to chase their countrymen, inform, call the police. On what grounds? On the basis that criminals, criminals, traitors from the Ministry of Health issue lower ranks of regulation and then guidelines for regulations that sometimes change from hour to hour on websites? On this basis, you suspend the laws, the constitutional laws? This is a crime. You know this is a crime scene, and that's why you tried to get into the High House with a bill that, luckily, has been put on the sidelines for a while, but I don't doubt you'll want to come back with it in the fall. With this bill, which is supposed to give you carte blanche on lawlessness, with this law which is supposed to equip officials with the right to do anything they like, with life, health, property of Poles, because with possible financial and criminal consequences they are absolved in advance. People who died in hospitals for beds because you didn't allow people dying, chaplains, people who sometimes sit in multigenerational families in the quarantine relay for a quarter, in some places longer. The reporting, the disgusting thing that you initiated is a crime. I hope the story doesn't forget. If the Polish state survives this, if the Polish nation survives it, we will see you before courts and tribunals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u128	How much more time do we have? Half a minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't have much time left, so let me just remind you. Ladies and gentlemen. You didn't want to listen to us, you didn't want to exempt Poles from paying ZUS contributions in companies that didn't function. You decided to do something else, you figured it out, you assumed that with more than 10 people, the entrepreneur could afford to pay the ZUS, and below you couldn't. You didn't want to tax Poles and let them not pay income tax. You'd rather keep going. You invented anti-crisis shields among people who had no idea or any contact with conducting their own business and their own business, because few of you ever had any business. That's why you have to somehow save that pissed-off electorate because it's pissed off, too. Unfortunately, that's the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u130	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 26 hours 16 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for taking up the subject of Belarus. This is a very important topic, very hot not only for the Belarusian people, but also for us because of our close neighbourhood. Poland is the cradle of solidarity and today solidarity does not allow us to stand idly by the brutal pacification of peaceful and democratic demonstrations in Belarus. Human harm and cruelty of repression have no national colors. We in Belarus see not only evil, we also see great enthusiasm on the part of civil society to stand out for real freedom, democracy and in these efforts of the Belarusian people we want to help. We want to help them express their own views, their own desires for freedom. We have probably all heard in various videos transmitted from media to media, how the song of the Belarusian people was song by Jack Kaczmarski. It certainly tells us something too, something it also reminds us in this memorable August, in the 40th anniversary of the Polish Solidarity Uprising. In the current emblem of Belarus there is a globe above which the sun shines. But this is a very, very difficult time for Belarus. It is necessary to recall these common fates, the fate of the Belarusian people, the Polish people, when in the 19th century both nations together, together with the Lithuanian brothers, fought for freedom, fought in the uprisings of 1830, 1863, because freedom and independence was our common cause. We were connected not only by geographical, historical, cultural proximity, but also by the bonds and desire for freedom. And this Pursuit, in turn, in the historical Belarusian coat of arms, means today for Belarus the ambitions of fighting for freedom, independence and the right to self-determination. Lech Kaczyński claimed that Poland's role is to intercede for Ukraine, for Lithuania, for Georgia and for Belarus also when other countries do not intercede for our neighbours and friends from the East. That is why I have proposed an extraordinary meeting of the European Council to our partners from the European Union. And today more and more Western leaders join this demand, this call. At a time like this, you can't wear a mask of neutrality or indifference. If we do not take any action now as a solidarity Europe, then we will make it clear to all our neighbours that in the face of the threat everyone can rely only on himself. Is this really our solidarity? Protests in Minsk, Grodno, in many cities, towns, small cities touched Polish hearts. However, we must remember that such important moments cannot become a domain only of emotion, they must be part of a certain strategic action at the same time. At least on the Polish side, such strategic action as the free Belarusian people expect us to do today. Empathy is not enough, there is a need for effective help. The architecture of security and peace in Europe deprived of security and peace in the east of Europe is incomplete, a fragile structure that threatens to collapse. Therefore, not only history, not only common values, but also realism and efforts for peace and stable development must be a permanent thread of our policy and strategy in the East. And that is why I am convinced that in this situation all these objectives can be combined in one effective action, in helping the Belarusian break-up, in proper assistance. This aid plan for Belarus, which we call the solidarity plan with Belarus, I would now like to present briefly to the High House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The three pillars behind this plan are security, openness and solidarity. Because there is no fully secure Poland and there is no fully secure Europe without the security of our neighbour, without the security of Belarus. We have opened our hearts in Belarus, and today we want to open our borders and our universities to them. We want to show ourselves and the whole of Europe that Belarus can count on Poland's solidarity that its inhabitants do not stand alone against the organized apparatus of repression, which we condemn and appeal for a peaceful solution to this dispute, which is becoming increasingly visible in Belarus every day. This is why, as part of our solidarity with Belarus, we propose a 5-point plan. Firstly, support for the repressed, kicked out of work, beaten and injured. We will build and expand a Polish and Polish-American program of repression aid. Poland has been a country in which many Ukrainians from war areas from Russia have found their second home for several years. Similarly, Poland can become the second home for the oppressed, injured Belarusians. It's August, 40 years since the memorable events on the coast. Great hope and faith in justice, which warmed the hearts of Polish workers, were broken over time. They were kicked out of their jobs, they were stripped of their chances, their wages. Today, the same thing is happening in Belarus. Therefore, we will also propose a scholarship programme to them. Wincenty Konstanty Kalinowski - he is a common hero of Belarus, Lithuania and Poland - a programme for students, researchers who are resettled from Belarusian universities. They will be able to study and work in Poland. Today it is impossible to predict how many citizens of Belarus will be in such a position, but we want to allow all those who will be oppressed by the authorities, authoritarian authorities of Belarus, coming to Poland, development and life here. [[Applause]] The third point is to facilitate entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland. It is about exemption from visa fees, and in special situations - admission to Poland also without appropriate papers. Such a procedure is prepared under the Schengen Agreement, so-called. Humanitarian visa. It is also about facilitating access to the labour market. Thanks to our program of repressed Belarusians it will be easier to enter Poland. When life, health, safety are at stake, there is no time to lose. We will therefore propose a detailed package including exemptions from fees and, in special cases, exemption from mandatory possession of documents, as well as facilitation of access to the labour market. The fourth point is to help independent media, among others. Belsat, Charter 97, Radio Right, and support for independent media and publishers in Belarus. At a time when the Internet can be disconnected in Belarus from one hour per hour, it is important that the channels that Belarusians communicate with the free world are as much as possible. In these difficult days, Belarusian journalists passed the test. Belarus cannot turn into a space of falsehood and manipulation, it needs media pluralism. That is why through the International Solidarity Foundation we will create permanent funding mechanisms for independent media. The credibility of Poland's actions is confirmed by the fact that we have been financing Belsat for many years, financing independent television, recently the amount of about 40 million PLN. The fifth point is the new programme of the International Solidarity Foundation for NGOs supporting civil society in Belarus and supporting independent media there. NGOs are often a forge of talent and innovation, but this time Polish NGOs will have the opportunity to support Belarusian citizens in building free media and free movement of information. NGOs must become a real citizen's ark and shelter. This will not work without the support we want to provide to third sector organisations through the International Solidarity Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Once again, I thank the High House for its resolution, which so unambiguously confirms Poland's aid, Poland's support, Poles' support for the aspirations of free Belarusian citizens. Citizens in Belarus today do not need vague assurances, round sentences. They need concrete details and Poland is proposing this concrete plan, the solidarity plan with Belarus today. We intend to allocate PLN 50 million to this programme in the first step, in addition, of course, to the funds that we already spend on various programmes, such as Belsat TV, which I mentioned. I also have no doubt that the stronger Belarus is, the more democratic, free and independent, the safer Poland will be. We categorically reject the helplessness and security of some international institutions. We want to be real support for Belarus and a real partner. Although the Bug River separates two political worlds: on one side are the European Union and NATO, on the other side - Belarus and Russia, on both sides of this river we have similar needs and similar dreams: a free country that does not hold back thoughts but creates conditions for development. Honesty to the Belarusians requires us, as Herbert advised, to stand on the side of passion and against indifference. But this passion must also be accompanied by caution and such prudent but courageous, a plan to support the civil society of Belarus, which is born or thawed before our eyes, is presented here in the High House. Our actions, actions of Poland and the entire European Union will in no way be political interference in the internal affairs of our neighbour. Ha, ha, ha! Other countries must not impose certain political or political projects on Belarusian society, but we can and should draw a helping hand to the Belarusians, and that is what we are doing. The future of Belarus is to be decided only by Belarusians themselves. Our role is to give them the opportunity to exercise this right. That is why we are calling on the Belarusian authorities today to consider declaring re-elections. These elections must be held in a fair and authentic manner, preferably with international observers. High Izbo! A ruthless roller of history has repeatedly passed through the Belarusian lands, but it has failed to destroy its greatest treasure, i.e. people: brave, patient, persistent, longing for a normal and free life. Poland wants to contribute, Poles want to contribute to the success of Belarus - our close neighbour. Long live free and democratic Belarus! Long live the proud and free Belarusian people! Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u132	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are going to vote, we will check the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to check the quorum. You're welcome. It's working. Thank you. 428 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law on Liability for Violation of the Provisions of the Mutual Recognition Regulation in accordance with the law placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point for products, print No 555. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Renewable Energy Act, - the biocomponents and liquid biofuels and certain other laws, - the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the years 1939 and 1956, - specific arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Road traffic law and certain other laws, - amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. The reports shall be printed in No 552, 553, 560, 556, 557 and 561 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Senate has passed resolutions on laws: - amending certain laws in connection with promotion of health-promoting consumer choices, print No 274, - amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other acts, print No 543. I propose, on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, examination of these resolutions without prior referral to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 549. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the merits of Jan Kowalewski for independence of the Republic of Poland and stopping the expansion of communist Russia. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 530. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 530 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? A little slower. 432 Members voted. 431-a, no one was against, 1 held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the merits of Jan Kowalewski for independence of the Republic of Poland and stopping the communist expansion of Russia. We would like to return to the discussion of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 40th anniversary of Lublin's July - 80. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 531. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 531, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 431 was for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of Lublin's July - 80th anniversary. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. The Sejm carried out the first reading and immediately started the second reading during which the amendments were tabled. We proceed to the third reading. A summary of the proposals and amendments tabled has been sent to the ladies and gentlemen for print No 535. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 10h added in the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 431 - for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose amendments to the Public-funded Health Care Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 433 was for, no one was against, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 535, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 433 was for, no one was against, 1 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 532. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 532, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 429 - for, 7 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Public Statistics, the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020 and the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. The Sejm carried out the first reading and immediately started the second reading during which the amendments were tabled. We proceed to the third reading. A summary of the amendments tabled was sent to ladies and gentlemen for print No 551. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 2d Act on the remuneration of managers of state positions applicants propose to amend paragraph 2. 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 417 - for, 3 - against, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The 25th Municipal Government Act of the applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 6. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 2 to 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 411 - for, 1 - against, withholdd 22. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 36a The Act on Local Staff of the applicant proposes inter alia. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The words "persons' shall be replaced by "workers'. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 411 - for, 1 - against, abstained 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 412 - for, 1 was against, 21 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 410 - for, 1 - against, withholdd 22. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 551, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 386 - for, 33 - against, 15 stopped. The Sejm adopted a law amending certain laws on the remuneration of public officials and amending the Law on political parties. Where's the applause? And the flowers, the applause? We proceed to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Second reading of the committee draft resolution on information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2019 (print No.489) - voting. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print No 489. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 489. I will put the tabled amendment to the draft resolution to the vote first. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment and, therefore, in favour of adopting a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019 as proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 202 - for, 226 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 489 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 233 - for, 204 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Second reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council of its activities in 2019 (print No 490) - voting. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print no. 490. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 490. I will put the tabled amendment to the draft resolution to the vote first. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment and, therefore, in favour of adopting a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2019 as proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 199 - for, 226 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 490 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 226 - for, 211 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council from its activities in 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estate, issued in violation of law and the Act on Real Estate Management (Prints No 420, 451 and 451-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present an additional report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights examined the draft law submitted on 16 July. The Commission has examined the amendments tabled during the second reading and recommends that the amendments: 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th, 12th, 15th, 19th, 23rd, 25th and 26th adopt and the other amendments are rejected. It is worth emphasising the very consistent cooperation of all clubs in the committee on the draft law amending the Law on specific rules on the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions and the participation of the social party. This shows that the bill is extremely necessary and will serve the affected tenants well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u134	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 451. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. 1. the minority proposal, as well as amendments 1 to 13, have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in breach of law. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 16 for, 402 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the third sentence in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 415 for, 3 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 157 for, 267 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 16c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 209 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 31 applicants propose, inter alia, Do not add lips. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 6 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 152 for, 275 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 31 applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 304 - for, 128 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment proposes, among other things, applicants. repeal the Article. 32. Amendment 12 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 427 was for, no one was against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 75 - for, 349 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose to add point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 73 - for, 356 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 34 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 83 for, 348 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 10th amendment to the article. 34 applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 200 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 40e. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 197 - for, 226 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Minority proposals 2 and 3 and amendments 14 to 22 were tabled in Article. 2 draft law containing amendments to the Real Estate Management Act. In the 13th amendment to the article. 6 applicants propose to add point 9e. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 74 - for, 353 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 applicants propose, inter alia, the new wording of points 6 and 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 15 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 126 - for, 295 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 214a paragraph. 1 applicants propose to add point 11a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 76 for, 355 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 15th amendment to the article. 214a paragraph. 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 12. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 292 - for, 124 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 214a applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 158 - for, 273 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to add paragraph 214a. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 200 for, 223 against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 214b applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 151 - for, 269 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 214b applicants propose to add paragraph. 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 417 - for, 9 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 214c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 153 for, 276 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 214d. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 84 for, 229 against, 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 214d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 147 for, 281 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 215 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working. Again, okay. Again, ladies and gentlemen. It's working. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 200 for, 232 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 3rd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 418 - for, 11 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 4 The amending act proposes to add paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 200 for, 227 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. The 7th Amendment Act. Amendment 26 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 25th and 26th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 422 - for, 3 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.451, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 416 - for, 8 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and the Law on the management of real estate. We would like to refer to item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and the Act amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. In the second reading, amendments were tabled to the bill. The Sejm has decided not to send the bill to the committee and to join the third reading after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendments were delivered to print No 554. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 554. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 6 and 7 were withdrawn by the applicants. In the third amendment to the article. 36 The Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, the applicants propose a new wording of the paragraph. 1. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise your hand by pressing the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 414 - for, no one was against, there was no 12. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.554, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 427 was for, there was no one against, 1 held back. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 570. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 570 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 430 for, no one was against, no one held back 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices (print No 274). I would remind you that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the procedure contained in the article in this case. 54 (1) (a) 8. Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Sejm rejects the Senate's resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject a resolution rejecting the law, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 14 February 2020 amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of healthy consumer choices. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 14 February 2020 amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of healthy consumer choices will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 229 was in favor, 157 against, 46 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources (Prints Nos 541 and 552). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets today considered the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, print No 541. The Senate has not tabled any amendments to the Parliament's proposal, but has adopted a resolution which rejects the law in its entirety. Therefore, the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after considering this resolution, asks the High Sejm to reject the Senate's resolution. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u136	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. For - 221, against - 184, the 6. The Sejm rejected the resolution. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws (Prints Nos 542 and 553). I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The Commission has examined this resolution today. The Commission recommends that the High House reject Amendment 2 and accept the rest of the amendments. Thank you. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u138	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1, 4 and 6. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 4 and 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 7 for, 412 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 411 of the Act - Environmental law The Senate proposes to delete paragraph 1. 10t. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 212, against - 208, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority... Sorry, the absolute majority - 215, i.e. in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 3, 5, 7 and 8 will be voted together, as proposed by the committee. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 5, 7 and 8 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 414, abstained 9. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws (Print No 543). I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 24 July 2020 amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 24 July 2020 amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 264 - for, 165 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Money Benefits of Persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956 (Prints Nos 548 and 560). I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate resolution on the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. The Marshal of the Sejm on 14 August 2020 addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Commission, after today's meeting, asks the High Sejm to accept the Senate amendments set out in points 1, 2 and 3. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u140	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the amendments of the Senate, they shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In Amendment 1. The Senate is proposing to change the title of the bill. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. No one was against - 428, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate's resolution on the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Special Solutions for Support of Uniform Services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, on the amendment of the Prison Service Act and on certain other laws (Prints No. 544 and 556). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Law on Special Solutions concerning the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, on the amendment of the Law on Prison Service and some other laws, print No. 544. The Marshal of the Sejm on 14 August referred the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration, which was carried out by the committee today. The Commission asks the High Sejm to reject 8 of the 29 amendments that the Senate has prepared and voted and to accept 21. Amendments requested by the committee are amendments 1, 16, 17, 18, 21, 23, 28 and 29. At the same time, the committee requests seven total votes, which are mentioned in points and combined. These are the votes on paragraphs 1, 23, 29 etc. - I will not read it, it is you who already have exactly presented in the report. That's where the committee ran out of comments. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted in the form that I am presenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u142	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 10 were tabled in Article. 1 Act containing amendments to the Police Act. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the title of the Act. Amendments 23 and 29 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 23 and 29 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 219 - for, 203 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. Article 39b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 The Senate proposes a different wording of points 1 and 6. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 5 - for, 423 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 39c paragraph. 5 The Senate proposes that this provision should also apply to the proposal together with the case files. Amendment 11 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 1 - for, 423 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 4, 9, 10, 13. to 15, 26 and 27. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 1 - for, 424 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 5, 12, 22 and 24. The Senate proposes to increase the amounts referred to in those provisions. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5, 12, 22 and 24 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 1 for, against -413, 10 abstained. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of the votes in favour, accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 72. Point 2 (3) of the Senate proposes to delete words combined with considerable physical effort. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 1 for, against - 425, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 7th amendment to the article. 72. 7 The Senate proposes to add point 1a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 1 for, against - 414, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 80 The Senate proposes among others. the new wording of paragraph. 1. Amendment 20 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 1 for, against - 425, no one stopped. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of the votes in favour, accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2a Act on Fire Protection Editorial Change. Amendment 18 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 16 and 18 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 262, against - 167, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. Amendments 17 to 20 were tabled in Article. 4th Act containing amendments to the Law on the State Fire Service. In the 17th amendment to the article. 35 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 10b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Two for, 425 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 19th amendment to the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Point 2 (1) of the Senate proposes that the word "permanent' be replaced by the word "permanent'. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 263 - for, 163 - against, no one held back. The Sejm against failure to obtain ruthless... Sorry, the Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. The 58th Prison Service Act of the Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. 2a-2d. Amendment 28 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 21 and 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 221 - for, 199 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Act on State Protection Services, the Senate proposes a new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 1, 427 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on Special Solutions concerning the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the amendment of the Prison Service Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Traffic Law and some other laws (Prints Nos 545 and 557). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Your Marshal of the Sejm sent yesterday a resolution of the Senate to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Commission has examined the Senate amendments to this important amendment to the Road Traffic Law Act and recommends that the High Sejm accept amendments 1, 2, 4 and 6. They will be put to the joint vote. These are clarification amendments. At the same time, it recommends rejecting Amendment 5. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u144	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Traffic Law. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. Article 7 73c. Amendments 2, 4 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 4 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 1 for, against - 419, 2 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. In Article 9, the following paragraph is added: 75e. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 1 for, against - 421, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add to the Law amending the article. 11a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 226 - for, against - 203, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 16 on the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19 (prints Nos 546 and 561). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee. What are we waiting for, marshal? For the call, sir. Please, Madame, we are waiting. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a meeting of the Health Committee was held on the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19, in print No 546. At the committee meeting, we leaned on the amendments tabled that were considered in the blocks. The Health Commission asks the High Sejm to accept amendment block: 1, 2, 8, 10, 16, 23, 29, amendment block: 3, 4, 14, 30, 33. - also accept, correction block: 5, 15, 31., 35. - accept, amendment block: 6, 7, 9, 12, 17, 19, 20, 22, 34, 55, 57. - accept. On the other hand, amendments 13 and 54. - reject, amendment block: 18, 24, 32., 36, 37., 39, 41, 42., 43., 45, 47, 48., 49, 50., 51., 52., 53., 56. - Reject, Amendment 21. - Reject, 25. - Accept, 26. - Accept, 27. - Reject, 28. - Roger, 38. - Accept, 40. - Accept, 44. - Reject and 46. - accept. The Commission proposes that amendments be voted on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u146	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The Senate proposes in point 2 of paragraph 2. 4a in the first sentence, after the words 'training', add the words 'excluding the remuneration referred to in paragraph 1. 3 and 4 and delete sentence 2. Amendments 2, 8, 10, 16, 23 and 29 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 1 - for, 413 - against, no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes in point 7 among others. delete paragraph. 4c. Amendments 4, 14, 30 and 33 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 218, 205 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes in point 3 inter alia. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20 after twice the words "or oral" have been used, add the words "or practical." Amendments 15, 31 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 5, 15, 31 and 35 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 2 for, against - 421, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes in point 1 to add point. f. Amendments 7, 9, 12, 17, 19, 20, 22, 34, 55 and 57 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the above-mentioned amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 1 for, against - 415, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 11th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes in point 3 in Article. 4d paragraph 4 point 12 e.g. replace the words 'to the Agency' with 'to the President of the Agency'. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 226 - for, against - 199, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes in point 7 among others. Delete point (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Amendment 54 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission rejects them. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 54 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 221 - for, 203 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes among others. Delete points 1 to 16 and 24 to 27. Amendments 24, 32, 36, 37, 39, 41 to 43, 45, 47 to 53 and 56 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Your marshal, can't you ask about Sasin? You can't ask about Sasin. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 218 - for, 194 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes in point 32 (a). and in point 3, delete the words referred to in the Act of 28 April 2011 on the Health Protection Information System. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 221 - for, 200 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment to the article. 10 The Senate proposes in point 5 of Article. 13b paragraph. 4 the introduction to the calculation shall be made by the service provider informs the recipient whose documentation has been digitised about it. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 2 - for, 401 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 26th amendment to the article. 10 The Senate proposes in point 5 of Article. 13b changes in the paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 217 - for, 202 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 27th amendment to Article. 10 The Senate proposes in point 5 of Article. 13b add paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 217, against - 197, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 28th amendment to the article. 13 The Senate proposes in point 2 of paragraph 2. The words "nurse, midwife' shall be replaced by "nurse or midwife' in point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 220 for, 205 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 38th amendment to Article. 20 The Senate proposes to add point 6a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Ten for, 415 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 40th amendment to the article. 20 The Senate proposes to add point 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. One, for, against - 417, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 44th amendment to the article. 29 The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 44th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 221 - for, 201 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 46th amendment to the article. 33 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 46th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Two-for, 422-against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Liability for Violation of the Provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products (prints Nos 547 and 555). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u147	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has examined the Senate resolution on the law on liability for breaching the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products. In this resolution, the Senate proposed three amendments. The Commission has considered them and recommends their adoption in its report after discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u148	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes a different wording of the title of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 1 - for, against - 416, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) Point 4 (1) of the Senate proposes to delete the words "put on the market' or "on the market'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. Two for, against - 416, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes that the Act enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted, 40 for, 381 against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on Liability for Violation of the Provisions of the Mutual Recognition Regulation in accordance with the law placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point for products. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 549). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 549 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 398 - for, 15 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 57 hrs. 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2019 together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (prints 389 and 529). Mr. Adam Bodnar, may I present your information?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u149	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I have the honour to present an annual report on the Ombudsman's activities for the period 2019 and information on the status of respect for human rights, thus fulfilling my obligation under Article. 212 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I am pleased to be able to present the annual information on a special day when there was clear support for Belarus' freedom activities on the part of the Polish Parliament, and also when it was decided to create a Solidarity Fund for those affected by the regime. I would like to point out that the period 2019 was extremely intense in terms of the Ombudsman's office. The office received over 59,000. cases, including 27,000. new business. During this time, we directed 184 general speeches. The Ombudsman has become a party to more than 200 different proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, common courts, administrative courts, the Supreme Administrative Court. The Ombudsman also continued his proceedings in cases that had already been initiated. The activity was concentrated in the Warsaw office, but also in three field offices: Gdańsk, Katowice and Wrocław. The Ombudsman carried out tasks arising not only from the Constitution but also from anti-discrimination directives as so-called. an equality body under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and as a body performing tasks under the national mechanism for preventing torture, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment. I would like to stress that, in principle, throughout the five-year term, the scope of the Ombudsman's activities has not changed. The only thing that could be observed was some budgetary constraints, as well as giving the Ombudsman the power to lodge emergency complaints. Since this is my last annual report due to the end of my term, I would like to sum up not only the events of the last year, but in general the events of the last 5 years. The term of office of the spokesman for the 7th term of office took place for a particular period as regards human rights and the shaping of the contemporary image of Poland, because the last 5 years marked intense changes in the system of the Republic of Poland, the understanding of human rights, but also the conditions and comfort of life of the citizens of the Republic. These social changes have affected both the performance of the Ombudsman's tasks and the manner in which he performs that function. Of course, during the last 5 years the most important political events have been the presidential elections in May 2015 and then the parliamentary elections held on 25 October 2015, because since then Law and Justice have been given the opportunity to rule alone and thus to implement the main points of the electoral programme. I would like to point out that I believe that three fundamental trends can be distinguished, which affect the level of respect for individual rights, including the level of legal security of citizens. The first trend would be called an anti-systemic trend, because starting from the October 2015 elections, the changes that were carried out in Poland served to gradually subdue independent institutions, reduce their competences, reduce the level of legitimacy of actions in order to simultaneously strengthen the central centre of political power. These changes concerned the submission of the Constitutional Tribunal to political power, the establishment of the National Media Council and the introduction of the political cast of public media, which had an impact on the way in which Polish Television performed its public mission and other public media. These changes also include strengthening the powers of special services and maintaining the state of the lack of genuine judicial and democratic control over special services. It is also a combination of the Office of the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice and the creation of very effective mechanisms for hierarchical submission and execution of tasks by prosecutors. There have also been changes concerning the filling of office positions in common courts by extending the powers of the Minister of Justice at the expense of the powers of the judiciary. It is about new regulations concerning the mechanism of cast of the National Judicial Council or amendments to the Supreme Court. This is also the regular application of disciplinary proceedings to judges in order to limit their involvement in matters relating to the independence of the judiciary, but also in relation to decisions given. It's also... [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right, your marshal... There you go. I'm free to go, aren't I? This is also a reduction in the role of Parliament and the failure to respect the rules of law-making, including in particular the rules of the legislative process. It is about presenting parliamentary projects - frequent practice - instead of government, and thus reducing public consultation, limiting discussions within Parliamentary committees, and very quickly proceding draft legislative acts. There have also been changes in the electoral system, including the status and composition of the State Election Commission. Has there finally been a reduction in the independence of the civil service, as well as the use of public funds to finance the activities of private actors that favour and promote political power, e.g. media or non-governmental organisations associated with power. In my opinion, these changes have led to a questioning of the principle of three divisions of power and have caused that the Polish system cannot be defined as a true constitutional democracy, but rather as an unconsolidated democracy or hybrid democracy. This is a system in which formal mechanisms and democratic institutions are preserved, but the essence of the functions of these bodies has been hollowed out and their functioning is determined by the dominant influence of the central political centre. While there is competition in the political arena, the takeover of power by any opposition party is hindered by the control of institutions which should be independent in the democratic system. Of course, this gradual pursuit of the creation of a new, unknown constitution of the system had an impact on respect for civil rights. Victims of human rights violations have become persons defending existing constitutional rules or associated with independent state institutions such as judges, prosecutors, state officials, diplomats, public media journalists. Changes were made in parallel through legal changes and often hate campaigns against specific people, leaders of protests or opinion-makers or even certain professional groups: judges, doctors of residents, teachers, non-governmental organisations. The numerous violations of human rights and complaints that were brought to the Ombudsman's office concerned those who, under civic responsibility, reacted to changes, organised protests, demonstrations, acts of civil disobedience. They also did not agree with new rules restricting freedom of assembly, such as cyclical assemblies, or excluding entirely freedom of assembly during epidemics, such as the recent strike by entrepreneurs. The authorities also did not react to acts of hatred that appeared in relation to persons performing public functions. This trend also affected Poland's position on the international stage. Never in history since 1989. Poland was not so interested in all international organisations dealing with democracy and human rights and the rule of law. In relation to Poland, numerous proceedings have been initiated before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which already affect legal relations with courts of other Member States. In 2020 Poland is a completely different country from it was in 2015, when I started my term of office. Although the constitution has not changed, due to these changes it is a different system than it was then. This is a system in which electoral manipulation is much easier, guarantees of the right to an independent court are excluded, and there is violence from the state as a result of coordinated police action, prosecution, special services or public media. It is a system in which the so-called system is being implemented more and more effectively. technological sequence - from spectacular detention by temporary detention to trial. Moreover, for several years, despite numerous appeals, the most basic standards for guaranteeing the rights of people detained by the police, such as, for example, have not been introduced. automatic access to a lawyer, as revealed by events from last week, when people detained had to wait many, many hours for the possibility of normal, ordinary contact with a lawyer, even though this lawyer was available. I would like to point out that only the courageous attitude of common court judges is the last barrier to the full freedom and arbitraryness of power. But the question arises as to how long, under such conditions, symbolic violence, judicial independence will be perceived by society as a component of the right to court. Let's take a look at the statistics on the use of a temporary arrest. In 2015, a temporary arrest against 4162 people was applied, in 2019 - to 8520 people and at the same time there was a decrease in crime. The question arises as to why this is happening. Isn't that the result of the pressure on judges from the D.A.'s office? The case of Judge Alina Czubeniak, who had disciplinary action for the withdrawal of a temporary arrest against a person with a disability who was defensible, is perhaps an example of a certain trend. The second point, the second barrier to arbitrary power, is the role of independent media, because in many cases it is thanks to the courageous attitude of the media, the involvement of investigative journalists that power cannot afford anything. However, pressure on the media does not yield, as witnessed by the decline in the last 5 years from 19th place to 62nd place in the ranking of freedom of media reporters without borders. The provisions concerning, for example, responsibility for the word, such as the famous article, have not changed. 212 The Penal Code, and independent journalists, but also opinion-makers, are regularly parties to proceedings from actions or private indictments of authorities-related entities. The second trend, which I believe had an impact on the approach to human rights, is a trend that researchers would define as a trend of national populism. This is party politics, which in their rhetoric constantly appeal to the will of the majority, the sovereign, question the importance and voice of opinion-makers, emphasize the values associated with tradition, nation, Christian values. At the same time, it is an approach that assumes a specific exclusivity in defining and defining what is good for the nation. In this way, the protection of minority rights may be undermined according to political needs and people representing a different perspective are pushed to the margins of the public debate. Thus, the starting point for action is not the values reflected in the Constitution, but the will of the nation, the sovereign, which is defined by those who have now been given a mandate to rule. As a result, constitutional values are redefined and challenged, and the constitution itself does not become a signpost of governance, but even an obstacle to the fulfilment of the will of the dominant majority. In the meantime, the constitution is just so that everyone, regardless of belief, faith, belief, nationality, belonging to one or another minority, can feel fully a member of the political community. At present, the ruling majority should respect that. This trend also means undermining the values of international cooperation. Criticism from international organisations and their representatives is treated not as a desire for friendly dialogue, but as an attack on our values. It turns out that European values are not our values, although in fact they are in line with those expressed in the 1997 Constitution. It also turns out that even the rule of law, so thoroughly defined in Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, can be regarded as a foreign value for the Polish authorities, as evidenced by the use of the term "so-called." the rule of law. During the period 2015-2020, there were numerous manifestations of this type of policy, although if we remember by 2015 we will recall that parliamentary elections coincided with the migration crisis in Europe. In fact, some cautious euphemistically speaking, the approach to refugees has been with us for the last five years. In many cases protection of refugee rights in Poland has not been implemented. It seems to me that such a most dramatic manifestation was the practice of not accepting applications for refugee status at the border crossing point Brest-Terespol, which was negatively assessed in June 2020 by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on M.K. and others against Poland. This course also manifests itself in the approach to women's rights or in relation to the rights of homosexual, bisexual and transgender persons. In particular, it should be noted that women's rights are constantly undermined by the importance of the Istanbul Convention, that rules on the availability of legal abortion are not respected, that access to contraception is restricted or that public funding for in vitro therapy is excluded. The changes were also reflected in the checks carried out at the premises of women's rights organisations, which took place day after the black protest or deprived of the possibility of public funding for women's rights organisations. Gay, bisexual, and transgender individuals have also become victims of these actions. The ruling political authority opposes the rights of LGBT people to traditions and even to national values, as a result, LBGT individuals despite both the Constitution and international human rights standards, not only cannot count on protection but are even exposed to violence. The rights of LGBT people are used as a tool of political struggle, and it was therefore difficult to count on the adoption of both the most basic legal acts that would protect their rights, as well as the refraining from the various actions that we have seen in recent months, the most difficult, in my opinion, to understand it was the adoption at local level of resolutions to prohibit the promotion of LGBT ideology, which has never been challenged by government representatives in the field, i.e. by voivodeships. The events of the last week, i.e. from 7th and 8th August, are, in my opinion, a dramatic result of the Polish authorities' current policy towards LGBT people. In fact, all these actions and omissions make me feel that a few percent of Poles are even excluded from the title of full citizens of the Republic. I would also like to point out that the changes that have taken place in recent years have affected relations with NGOs. Those who acted in the name of the common good, but perceived as contrary to the interests of the party, became the subject of harassment and attacks. This concerned certain charitable organisations, organisations fighting for democratic standards, organisations of national and ethnic minorities, but also environmental organisations. Moreover, in some areas the principle was applied: divide and rule, which was particularly highlighted by the protest of the guardians of persons with disabilities in the Sejm. In the last five years, the alliance of the throne with the altar has also been strengthened. The Catholic Church supported some legal changes, but above all did not oppose when they were under attack. At the same time, the government showed great tolerance for various abuses in the Church itself. These two trends had very important consequences for the exercise of the Ombudsman's mandate. On the other hand, I would like to stress that what has always been in my mind is the protection of the values which are expressed in the Constitution and in the ratified international agreements. The third trend I would like to mention was the protection of social rights. This has been a policy in recent years which has called for the need to recognise the material needs of society and the need to build a more egalitarian society, which should also benefit from economic change and persistent economic growth for many years. The most important aspect of this was the 500+ programme, a programme to support families who raise their children. In addition, the government has taken active action on the protection of workers' rights. There is no doubt that the success of the government in this area was also due to the economic downturn. Poverty and unemployment have decreased significantly over the last five years. This social trend has contributed to profound social change. The massive scale of social programmes - such as 500+, support for learning children, the restoration of the lower retirement age - has had a positive impact on the overall standard of living and its comfort, especially in poorer families, where there is less chance of a well-paid job. On the other hand, what was the subject of my interest as a spokesperson was, of course, not so much. only and exclusively to appreciate the effect of government policy on greater social egalitarianism, as to see those elements in which human rights in the field of health, mental health, the right to education, access to certain social benefits, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of the elderly and, finally, the rights of persons deprived of freedom have not been sufficiently exercised. I could, of course, talk about this for a long time, but I would point out that the fact that we are experiencing the crisis of the rule of law is also of direct importance for respect for civil rights in the social sphere. It is impossible to identify all or even the most important actions of the ombudsman during such a short speech and a summary of 5 years, but I would like to point out - and at that I will conclude - that the last 5 years have been very serious from the point of view of the values and constitutional principles concerning the political issues of Poland. These are the changes that question our future in the European Union, and they question our security. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that Poland in 2020 is different than 5 years ago because citizens began to benefit much more directly from the constitution, freedom of speech, freedom of association, the organisation of peaceful assemblies and mechanisms for control of power. They have shown what innovation and creativity can do in solving specific social problems, but also in controlling the rulers. Unusual involvement was accompanied by the work of lawyers and lawyers. I think that judges have also understood to a much greater extent their role in a country where they should control the rulers and stand up for civil rights. And all this, in my opinion, gives hope that one day Poland will return to the family of fully democratic states and become a once again loyal member of the European Union and an active member of the international community who cares about the highest standards of human rights. If Poland is such a country, it will have greater credibility and effectiveness in claiming democratic standards in other countries. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u150	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask Mr Kurzepa to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was required to report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for freedom and human rights and the citizen in 2019; print No 389. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 27 May 2020 to be heard. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the aforementioned. information and held a discussion at its meeting on 6 August 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Please, the first floor will be taken by Mrs Anna Milczanowska, the Law and Justice Club. You don't have one? There's a connection. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u153	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the matter submitted in accordance with the obligation under Article. 212 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2019. Although we find 2019 in the title of the report, it is reasonable, in my view, for both the end of the term of office of the President-in-Office of the Ombudsman and for the documents also in this statement, which I have just heard in the performance of the Ombudsman, to have a broader view of the actions being taken or not, especially since in the introduction of the information, immediately following the statistical summary of the number of cases, persons or telephone conversations that have come to the office, we find the words alleging the lack of social dialogue and cooperation between the authorities in the law-making process. And here we find in this brief passage the essence of the public activity of the Ombudsman for the past five years. Unfortunately, we have to say with regret that although he has actually spoken many times and on many subjects, he has unfortunately done so not in the protection of real civil rights and freedoms, but in representing certain political forces and ideological interests of the environments operating in accordance with the principle: if the facts are against us, the worse it is for the facts. This is true, although Poles speak loudly about restoring their dignity and subjectivity, and not because of belonging to the so-called. elite. At a time when the proposed legal, institutional or social solutions arise and form during talks with Poles, the Ombudsman's information suggests the opposite. After all, the word "citizen" does not mean party membership, but belonging and respect for common values and the prevailing legal order. Law and Justice in the service of Poles took great trouble to eliminate the so-called. a theoretical country in which only selected interests mattered. The effort made to really reform the functioning of the general and administrative judiciary has come to a great deal of resistance from people who themselves call themselves an extraordinary caste. However, according to the Ombudsman, they are not helpless people with a heartless machine, and the caste deserves special protection. Was it not the same when the Ombudsman de facto defended the beneficiaries of the Warsaw reprivatisation, undermining the legitimacy of the body set up by the Sejm in this case? And an unprecedented report on the printer, an entrepreneur who, due to conscience, refused to print materials promoting the ideology of LGBT? In this case, as in other Poles, they could not understand who the Polish Ombudsman represented accusing Poles of participating in the Holocaust. Why does the spokesman, at the request of the foreign ambassador, want to break the principle of independence of the courts, even though it is to the detriment of the Polish child? Similarly, the specific selectivity of the Ombudsman's action cannot count on our approval. It was characteristic, for example. silence in matters of insulting religious symbols and people for whom they are of absolute value. In return, Mr. Spokesman declared war on local governments who decided to stand firm in defending the family and the values that constitute the foundation of Polishness. Unfortunately, this ideological commitment of the Ombudsman did not allow for support for people working to protect their lives. Such protection was experienced by those who aggressively and even criminally attacked the defenders of life and the place of religious worship. After all, we have dealt with a kind of accumulation in the last few days, when the spokesperson once again attacked Polish institutions acting in accordance with legal and civilizational standards. In the world of values which the Law and Justice respect, every misappropriation of the principle of service to Poland and Poles deserves our firm and unambiguous stigma, all the more so because we do not see any chance of improvement, and during the last session of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights, you announced that your style of work as an RPO will not change until the last few days. You're a spokesperson for civil rights. To sum up, I would like to ask the question: Do you believe that your actions so far in the exercise of office are in line with the art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that the Ombudsman cannot belong to a political party, a trade union or conduct a public activity incompatible with the dignity of his office? Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice treats the document presented not as information to the ombudsman in office, but as a political declaration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u154	Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u155	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! We come to discuss the information of the Ombudsman on a special day, on the day when, in Belarus, human rights, citizens' rights, the right to freedom of assembly are, every day, violated. We live, ladies and gentlemen, in extraordinary times where nothing is certain. It doesn't matter if something is written in the Constitution or if something is a generally accepted principle of a democratic rule of law, or if something is simply, humanly decent. In times like these, we need signposts. In times like these, authority is needed. Adam Bodnar, ombudsman of civil rights, has been an authority for all of us for the last five years. Wow! Five years ago, Professor Adam Bodnar started the Ombudsman's term of office. He was an unusual candidate, because he was a citizen, proposed by NGOs themselves. It was and is proof that you can have an important political position without issuing political notes. He was building support for his candidacy, based on a specific programme, and he probably did not think that he would perform his office at such an extreme time when, for the first time since his freedom was regained, the authorities not only questioned constitutional values, destroyed the division of power, but also brutally pushed around, restricted citizens' rights and fought against all independent institutions. He did not suppose that he would perform his office at a time when power, especially the media, is sowing disgusting propaganda, sneaking people on himself, sorting them out, violating privacy, acting arbitraryly, introducing hate speech into the language of politics, affirming public space and the celebrations of state nationalists with flags of contempt. Ladies and gentlemen! Adam Bodnar was also a spokesman for ordinary people. He was a spokesman for the victims, the weaker and the disfellowshipped, left to himself. He exercised his office impartially and competently. Mr. Spokesman! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I'd like to thank you for those five years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u156	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u157	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! We are leaning on your report today, on the Ombudsman's report, which is the sole thing in the eye of this authority, which is not on the way with democracy or equal treatment or tolerance. Today, we are summing up the work of an ombudsman of human affairs, which consists of defending ordinary people, which consists of education and assistance. In your mission, you have brought to light difficult cases, cases that violate guaranteed human rights and the citizen. You stood up for the most important values, personal dignity, freedom, equality and equal treatment, democratic standards, and you defended the victims and the weaker. That should be the Ombudsman, he should be the defender of the weaker and the needy. On your mission, however, you didn't have a hard time. Why? Because you were independent and impartial. You didn't give in to any power, no party, and neither did you give in to any president. For your independence, you paid dearly, you and the Ombudsman's office. Power, unable to call you off, tried to discredit you, but I am very pleased that you were always consistent and righteous that you were not loyal, that you were not obedient, and that you were not subject to authority, that all your time in office you were such a mess for power - you were a mess for the power that tramples the constitution, destroys democracy and restricts civil liberties - because it is worth being decent, it is worth being consistent and it is worth being brave. Thank you for doing your duty to people - people, not politicians and not parties. Thank you for not being a puppet for not sitting in the corner for the duration of your office. You were, you are, and you will be a brave and wise voice at this very difficult time. Thank you for being the guardian of the Constitution, which is a signpost for all of us... Unfortunately, it's not for everyone. Thank you for the interventions that have been undertaken on equal treatment. For this particular thank you, because the scale of discrimination based on race, origin, sex (Dawn), nationality, religion, religion, belief, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is huge and growing, because power gives consent to homophobia, xenophobia and anti-Semitism, and since power permits it, it assumes shared responsibility. That's what you have to remember, and that's what you always have to fight. I thank you and your colleagues for your work and for the report presented, which, like the Constitution, should be a direction indicator for all of us, should be a signpost for all of us. Thank you very much for your cooperation on behalf of yourself and the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club. Thank your co-workers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Recent years have been a new decal of our public life and a specific concern for civil rights and freedoms. But these are new commandments not from Mount Sinai, but from an inconspicuous building on the street. Nowogrodzka. First of all, human rights violations. Second, violation of the Constitution. Third, the politicized Supreme Court and the National Court of Justice. Fourthly, the degradation of the Constitutional Tribunal. Fifth, limited freedom of assembly. Sixth, the alliance of the throne with the altar. Seventh, discrimination, hate speech, and a hat coming from the top of power. After the eighth, politicized public media manipulating facts and fueling stereotypes and negative social emotions. After nine, homophobic statements by politicians on the right side of the House. Ten o'clock a guarantee of impunity for the politicians of power. Question: "How far will the authority go, which has no resistance to breaking the law and exclusion from parentheses of all who are uncomfortable?" A country that systematically discriminates against minorities and does not care about the weaker ones is a picture of a country that emerges from information about the Ombudsman's activities in 2019. As of 2015, i.e. Since the beginning of the PiS regime, the number of temporary arrests has increased more than twice, although crime has fallen. What can you be arrested for in our country? We were able to find out a week ago about how the rights of the detained are unobserved and how the abuse of force is against them. A country where the state apparatus uses direct and systemic violence against specific social groups, its citizens and citizens. A state where power beats and humiliates the weak and protects and honors monuments. An authority for which constitutional provisions are a loose suggestion, not a law in force. In this country, in our country, the office of Ombudsman held by Adam Bodnar remains the last right and fair. As an activist who has been fighting for years for human rights, women's rights, for equality, I would like to thank the Ombudsman from this place for his dedication to the disfellowshipped, forgotten, harmed for being their voice when no one else wants to hear them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u160	You're welcome. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u161	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, Democracy dies in the dark - it's a slogan and the motto of the American daily The Washington Post. But this term also fits very closely with our Polish situation. For five years it has been getting darker, less oxygen, less freedom, less faith in the institutions that we have believed in and which have been trusting for years, become increasingly distant, absent, sometimes even hostile. In this sad reality, the Ombudsman's Office led by Professor Adam Bodnar was outstanding. The Ombudsman's office, which I prefer to call the largest super professional law firm in Poland pro bono, has become one of the few places in the Polish public space where it was possible to talk about the nodal problems of human rights and civil liberties. The increase in the number of complaints affecting the Ombudsman's Office is evidence of two phenomena: the growing oppression of the state, but also the increasing confidence in the Ombudsman's Office, the belief that assistance and support can be obtained independently, impartially and professionally, especially if we have collided with a heartless state. Professor! On behalf of the Left Club and millions of our voters, I thank you and your colleagues for their service. Thank you for your determination, thank you for your courage and thank you for your openness. And thank you for the criticism sometimes. also for pro-democratic environments. That is your role: far from any political commitment, always on the side of truth, human rights standards and freedom. Every ombudsman left behind his work, marked this office with his vision. I thank you for setting a very high standard of work in difficult times, during times of storm and pressure, at a time when human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law became increasingly facaded, more and more attacked, more uncomfortable and unnecessary. Thank you for stopping the attacks on yourself and on your loved ones. And however pompous or pathetic it may sound, thank you for being a busole, for setting the course for us, all of us (the bell) who decided without fear, without cyclicalism to defend fundamental principles and values. You have set an extremely high standard of conduct for your successor or successor. However, I believe that you will remain active in the public sphere, because your public experience should be used by the Polish state. As a country, we cannot afford to waste this potential. On behalf of the Left Club, I wish you all the best, success in new scientific and public projects. I believe that once again we will have the opportunity to cooperate in the implementation of projects important for Poland, for Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u162	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, the Confederation Club, near the Confederation. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Professor Bodnar, for this speech. Thank you very much, Marshal, for letting him talk for so long. As a result, Professor Bodnar exposed himself to the fact that for five years he was not a spokesperson for civil rights, but was a politician who pursued his politics, criticized the rules of the system - rightly, in many cases very rightly, I agree with that. Only 80% what you said had nothing to do with the ombudsman's work, but it was a statement from a political activist who doesn't like the current government. On the other hand, when it comes to acting as an ombudsman, I just want to say that once I wanted to use the help of the Ombudsman's office on a man who had been held without court for three years. For 3 years, a person who is not valid completely - the party The change is not noticeable at all, no one has heard of it - he was sitting without a court, could not contact his lawyer. When I asked the spokesperson's office to do something, he didn't do anything about it. So that, Professor, you are an excellent politician, no advocate of civil rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u164	Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! Spokesman! God's greetings in every job you take for the sake of your loved ones and your country, but I am glad that your term of office is about to come to an end and I agree with the diagnosis of President Korwin. With your speech, in case anybody forgot, you were able to make a perfectly good argument for the unnecessary office that you are still holding tonight, [[Applause]] And -- and I'm sorry to say, and please don't take this as a personal touch -- the need for your action on this facility. Only the oldest mountaineers remember that this entire ombudsman was whacked by Wojciech Jaruzelski, general of the dead, Holy Lord. Or rather, he grew up as such a flower to a goat in the dark of martial law, so that somehow he could clue into this cognitive dissonance, which was powerful, that it is known, folk justice, but where would a normal man go in search of this justice. And unfortunately, this original sin, this genetic defect of the Ombudsman's office, the PRL-owska genetic defect is fully revealed in the post-PRL, in the Republic of Poland III and half, which in no way wants to become normal Poland, since the majority of the political elite insists on repeating the mantra of political correctness, and you, Professor, spokesperson, are, I would say - again, not ad personam, but you are - a laboratory, crystal clear example, such an embodiment of political correctness, which you have recited here various sentences: speech of hatred and tolerance raised to the rank of virtue highest. The Lord has shown that the Lord has claimed, unfortunately, an imaginary state which you, my lords, are sitting here at this late hour, a sphere of value, in fat quotes, but you are not begging for people. You are indeed spokesmen of various poisoners, hostile to normal Poles of ideology, and for nothing you have their normal problems. Because where have you been for the last six months? You are now dying in a crowd of masked fellow citizens and officials, because for the past six months you have not claimed what the current regime is doing with the law, with the rule of law, with the constitution. You're begging for something here that would be a complete abstraction for a normal person, if it weren't for the fact that the police are standing in the way of normal people, pissing, pissing on those who have tried to stand in the way of parades of sodomy, promoters of sodomy. And you are the spokesperson of all this indecency, heat and need, threatening Poles (the bell) with Eurokoloz, and therefore I am glad that we are parting. Again, God's blessings on a new way of life. Never go back to the highest offices of the Republic of Poland, seek a place for yourself there, in the Eurocircle, right, because you aspire to it. All things that are dear to Poles, you wrap in cellophane clichés of political correctness. This is an expression of the Ombudsman's independence. Thank you very much, sir. I'm glad it's over, and the fiction of this whole procedure... Let's also note that we'll talk here for a while, most of the room is long gone for dinner. Thank you very much, sir. There's not even a vote, we can't reject your report. Thank you, and I'm sorry, Marshal. Too bad, too bad, we'd be happy to vote against your report and your person. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u166	Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u167	Private Mr Kaczyński! [[Joy in the Chamber]] High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Finally: Dear Ombudsman, Thank you with all my heart for standing up for human rights, thank you for standing up for freedom at a time when we were beginning to miss that freedom. I also thank you for standing up for me when I was threatened by prison for the TVP stamp. I'm just worried about how we're gonna live in this dying democracy... Let him die. ...when your voice runs out, and there's no doubt that the power will want to put a party bang in your place. Who's gonna intervene if the police won't allow the attorneys to be held unjustly? In addition to LGBT people, there are independent media, non-believers, environmentalists, artists, women, incorrigible environmentalists, lawyers, local government officials, doctors, teachers and perhaps students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Persecutive mania. You're welcome... With a light hand, half this country. Mr. Spokesman! How are we gonna live now? Thank you. You wanted democracy, you got democracy. Most people rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u168	Thank you, Member. I would very much like to ask Members to remain calm in the Chamber, everyone had time to finish their speech. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u169	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! You were more than a spokesperson because you were a non-existent proxy for equality, you were often silent in matters that did not go on the political line, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, and you were doing so with an increasingly limited budget. And for that, I think we're all grateful to you... Not all of them. ...because you've been with every citizen and every citizen. Special attention is paid to your activity in smaller towns, your visit, duty, and the dispersal of the Ombudsman's office into smaller towns. And that is my question: could you ask all those who ask where you were, tell them about your meetings in smaller cities, how you stood up for workers' rights, how you defended the tenants, how you defended women discriminated against, insulted and despised by this authority, how you defended every minority excluded because of faith or lack of it, disability or sexual orientation? We're in the minority. Mr. Spokesman! What you did (the bell) was a serious demonstration of how the Ombudsman's office should function. You have also entered new trends, because it is very important not only to defend what is, but also to look into the future. What you have done in the field of education, human rights, in the context of the European Union, as well as the prevention of hate speech, I hope, will not be swept under the carpet, as some would like... Thank you. ...and it will continue by you, and by many of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u171	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! What respect we have for your work is shown by the presence of all of us, Members of all parliamentary clubs, in fact, outside the Law and Justice, because your work was work for citizens, for all groups, for all the victims, not necessarily for the oppressive PiS state. Not all of them. You have defended the rule of law, but in fact the rule of law dimension in respect for every human being, anyone who has felt wronged by those very stubborn institutions that are destroying liberal democracy. I wanted to thank you very much for what you said in the committee as part of the summary of these thousands of interventions, but above all what you did for anti-discrimination policy. It's all about what got into the political space, the media, the language of hatred that led to the death of the dead. Paul Adamowicz. You spoke of this at the time of the report. You also spoke of this extremely important element of education [[♪ The bell ♪]] In schools, about learning to respect another person. Thank you very much for this work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I told you that you were an advocate for ordinary people, but I would very much like to draw the attention of the High House to one aspect of your activity. This aspect, the subject you were dealing with, was the subject of the elderly. In fact, five years ago, senior policy was stopped in Poland, but you were constantly asking for older people, for their rights. You organised civil rights congresses, participated in the deliberations of senior parliaments, as well as a national Alzheimer's plan, which is not in Poland, nearly 0.5 million people with dementia have been forgotten. You also requested proper security for the DPS, the ZOLs, and during the Coronavirus epidemic. I'd like to thank you for all this. I would also like to express my hope that this policy and the work of the Committee on Elders at the Ombudsman's Office will be maintained [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u174	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u175	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman! From this point on, I would like to thank you very much for Adam Bodnar's entire 5-year term. Here are a few things I would like to express my great gratitude for. Firstly, the relentless struggle for democratic standards, which are being violated by the current power. Secondly, recalling that workers' rights, women's rights, LGBT rights and all minorities are human rights. Thirdly, always taking sides with those who are victims of violence. Fourthly, the openness and presence of people at meetings across Poland - whether at Woodstock Festival, Pol-and-Rock Festival, whether at all meetings of the Ombudsman throughout Poland - and cooperation with anyone who was willing to build a culture of dialogue. For the last five years, Adam Bodnar has been a breath of fresh air (the bell) in this increasingly strangling country. Last sentence. Mr. Spokesman! On behalf of Poles and Poles from this place I warmly thank you for the strength of the argument, for hope and proof that it is worth doing your job. I hope that Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy will have the opportunity to continue your work. Again, thank you very, very much for all of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u176	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u177	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, And I'm going to start by saying, "Thank you." Thank you for being on the side of the victims, beaten, persecuted, on the side of freedom, democracy, on the side of minorities. Speaking of minorities, I would like you to tell us once again how the situation of the LGBT community has changed dramatically: gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people, what hatred, what violence and what humiliation, the taking away of dignity, the sense of security affect this community from the ruling party and its subordinate television. I would also like to ask about other minorities: national minorities, ethnic minorities, but also people with disabilities - we talk about so much here, but has there really been a lot that has happened to help them live a decent life? - the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal as regards the guardians of persons with disabilities, the possibility of combining [[♪ The bell ♪]] professional work with care of persons with disabilities. I would also like to ask about the unrecognized minority, about the Silesian minority, about more than 0.5 million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland who ask for their language. Isn't it time to take their side too? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! Yesterday in the Senate, and today in the Seym you summarized your five-year term. You concluded this summary with this opinion: Poland is different from Poland in 2020 in 2015 because of our democratic maturity. Clearly, this maturity is also your merit and your accomplishment. You've been faithful to the Constitution for the entire term of office. You've always been able to count on your help and support, regardless of the cases involved. You have had an impressive number of meetings with Polish residents and residents. You visited more than 200 cities at the time, but also the villages. Thank you for not remaining indifferent to the fate of the workers being liquidated by the so-called. A good change of the Maritime Office in Słupsk and at my request you sent the Minister of Gróbaryczyk the appropriate letter. It's one example that you're a spokesperson for human affairs that doesn't lock itself in the capital office. And for that, I thank you on behalf of myself and the voters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u181	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I would like to express my great satisfaction that you, as my spokesperson, as the spokesperson for whom I had the honour to vote, have fulfilled my expectations at your address not even 100% but in 200%, I would say in terms of defending human rights in an extremely difficult situation, in the crisis situation we are in. I would like to thank you for all that you have done, for defending human rights in the case of so many of the environments that have already been mentioned, but also for the hope that you have given all people that there is still an institution that has survived at a time when our democracy is in crisis, that yet a democratic Poland protecting human rights has not perished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And two short questions. First. You said that we would go on the path of democracy again, that we would have to make changes. What first change would you propose to make when we return to the path of true democracy? The second question is that you also said that there is no going back to what was. So what else, let's say, before-PiS shouldn't we go back to in terms of defending human rights rather than just stopping at what was? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u182	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, You have rightly pointed out recently the unequal treatment of electoral committees in the presidential campaign on public television. You have informed the public that Andrzej Duda's committee could count on the greatest amount of air time. But I'd like to ask you another question. Even during the campaign Just before the second round, the Prime Minister of the Polish Government said the words: The virus is in reverse. There's no need to be afraid of him anymore. Let's go to the election. I'm glad we're less and less afraid of this virus. Another time, the Prime Minister stressed: The epidemic situation is under control, there are fewer and fewer diseases. That's why I invite you all, go ahead and go to the polls on July 12th. The younger, the older, the older, the stronger, there's nothing left to be afraid of. In the summer, flu viruses and this coronavirus are weaker, much weaker. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I would like to ask you a little perversely whether you have responded to these scandalous words of the Prime Minister deceiving Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Professor, You're here. not only an advocate of civil rights who protects freedom and human rights and the citizen, but you are a true spokesperson of Polish affairs. Because today the most important issues of Poles are the crisis of the state, the crisis of democracy, the crisis of constitutionalism and the rule of law. Today, these most important issues are defending the independence of judges and the independence of courts. It is the protection of what remains of the principle of division of authorities, but also the fight against hate speech and the protection of the rights of the weakest, also the protection of women's rights. We thank you for your service today, but there are many indications that your term of office will be extended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to share with the High House your comments on how to strengthen the position of the Ombudsman in the future, how to make this office stronger so that it can defend citizens' freedoms and rights more effectively. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! For starters, I thank you for, it seems, a little something: for beautiful Polish. We just heard from this speaker about 2020. You've traveled all over Poland. A few years ago, I attended a meeting at the Academy of Arts in Szczecin, where we talked about cultural problems, censorship in art. You probably know that this Szczecin university was the first university in Poland to enter women's endings in its statute. For the 25 days you have left, please call on other Polish universities to do the same. As a citizen, please. And my question is, what kind of problems did the people of culture address you, the people of art? And finally, thanks from the people of Gryfic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] your hometown in Zachodniopomorskie, because Adam Bodnar is a professor, a spokesperson from a small town, from Gryfic in Zachodniopomorskie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And Copernicus was a woman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u188	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u189	High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I'll join you in thanking me for being the spokesperson for the little things. There were words here, very important words about defending democracy, defending state institutions, and these are of course all important things. But I would like to thank you for leaning on everyday matters, on the affairs of these weakest citizens and citizens. I would like to thank you for the fact that, when you fought for the courts, you fought for these to be courts for people: for the reduction of court fees, for the fact that the courts were accessible to people with disabilities, for the fact that - as we saw it last time, and as you spoke about it today from the speaker - you really stopped hindering access to a lawyer and the defence of those detained, so that we did not repeat what we unfortunately had to observe, and some of us were watching eye-to-eye at the precincts on the night of Friday last week. I would also like to thank you for remembering the children (the bell) and you were able to set trends as one of the few institutions in this country in terms of the future of children and modern education. It was at the Ombudsman's Office that a group was formed fighting cyber-violence, bullying and pathosstreaming. This is one of many examples of how the Ombudsman's Office could build an interinstitutional team... Go ahead and finish. Yes. Thank you, Marshal. ...who actually leaned between state and private institutions over a real problem and tried to solve it. I would be very curious to see how you see the future of solving this problem and the future of this team's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Complaints by the Ombudsman's Office, active in protecting and defending the civil rights of Poles and Poles, action on the withdrawal from the legal circulation of acts which exclude uncomfortable for some authorities, districts or voivodships of residents, stand on the side of independent media and independence of judges and support for parents of children from the spectrum of autism deserve the highest recognition, highest respect. Mr. Spokesman! Please accept the words of thanks for the five years' work to date on my behalf and on behalf of those who are addressing me with such requests of the inhabitants and organizations from Bielsko-Biała, the Bielski district, Silesia Cieszyński, Silesia Pszczyński and Żywiecczyzna. Thank you. As I am at the point: questions, I have a question: How many complaints are sent annually to the Ombudsman's Office? More or less [[♪ The bell ♪]] than in the past years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u192	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I also join thanks mainly for the sense of security of all of us, citizens, that there is an institution in Poland, to which you can turn in the event of a collision with a oppressive country, an omnipotent state. However, I would like to take advantage of the fact that you are still an advocate of civil rights and ask a specific question. Firstly, I would like to ask about the possibility for the Ombudsman to examine a certain thing, namely the use of the law which the prosecutor has obtained under the direction of Zbigniew Ziebra - an outrageous right to pass the case to third parties, for example. to specific journalists. Were there such cases as whether the Ombudsman's office had tools to monitor such cases and how many such cases were there? That's one thing. Secondly, how real - not in terms of legal solutions but in reality - is control of the use of operational techniques and operational controls by the services? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And thirdly, how often have police officers been used in purely political matters? Thank you very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u194	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I would like to ask you about the seemingly obvious thing: if, according to Polish legislation, all citizens are equal to the law, should they be subject to equal judgment and equal punishment for identical crimes? If so, I would like a commentary on the attempt to create an extraordinary office caste, which can buy goods at an excessive price, can buy goods from relatives and friends without a tender. I'm talking about a bill that abolishes the responsibility of PiS officials for crimes committed in the fight against the epidemic. I have a great honor of representing Kujaw and Pomerania voters in this room. On behalf of those of my constituents who have asked me to do so, I would like to thank you very warmly for being an advocate for ordinary people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u197	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Professor, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the sound conduct of the office entrusted to me. Thanks to your commitment and the work of the entire office team, we were aware and felt that this office was indeed protecting the balance of the law and its equal application to all citizens. The Ombudsman shall be subject to the National Torture Prevention Mechanism. A team of specialists under your authority visited various institutions. These were prison facilities, police arrests, police stations, but also psychiatric hospitals, care and medical facilities, social services homes, police chambers of the child, and many, many others. And I really wanted to thank you for the fact that you, Professor, and your office have not forgotten the people who are there, because it is often difficult for them to fight for their rights, it is difficult for them to say directly that their rights are being violated or the word (the bell) is not kept, or they need support and assistance. Thanks to these visits, you have been able to help these people and thank you very much for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u198	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! In your information, you recalled that the overall standard of living, its comfort, especially in poorer families, had a positive impact on the mass scale of social activities and programmes such as 500+, such as support for learning children, such as the restoration of a lower retirement age. But here, too, I would like to remind you of those promises that have not been fulfilled, such as the Living+ programme, as well as the lack of other social housing development programmes, insufficient efforts to change the functioning of social assistance homes, the lack of strategies in terms of support for independent people, the failure to address the problem of garbage dumps. Referring to these comments made by you, I would like to ask the rulers, but unfortunately they are not in this Chamber, if we can count on the Poles to hope that the government will ever deal with these problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the proper implementation of social rights are not actions that are geared towards the development of a multi-annual strategy, but it is a solution to the specific, resounding problems that you have been reminding us of throughout your term of office. And I would like to thank you here for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u200	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Marek Rząsa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You were an advocate of civil rights for the time being. In this sentence I could actually fit the content of my speech, but I would like to express my great gratitude for years of fighting for what is most important - for man, for his dignity and for his rights. In your office, or rather in your mission, you acted in extremely turbulent times when trampling on fundamental civil rights became a tool for exercising authority. But you've met those times, you've always stood by the citizens, especially the weakest ones. In defense of civil liberties, you weren't afraid to call things by name, even if you were faced with an unacceptable attack on the part of the current government in a thriving democracy. By sending thanks and respect to you and your colleagues, I am doing so with great sadness, because Poles are losing great advocate of their rights today, but I am convinced that the end of office will not make you stop fulfilling a mission, to which you were called, not of your own motion, but for the internal need to help others. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish you well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u203	One question comes to mind. I've had more of them, but I have one basic thing, because here's the laudation festival... Don't let them embalm you while you're alive. [[Applause]] 'Cause you can see that these are some orphans looking for a totem around which this total opposition could focus, and you're good for a totem. But the totem is a dead object, so be careful. And here's the question: since they're punishing you so much and I value public disclosure - and you know, I'm not generally in favour of, for example. Tracking people's interests, whether in the ideological sphere or in the sphere of preferences, what we consider to be a sphere of morality, but I value transparency - whether on St. Jana comes to some box and you've done so high up in the hierarchy that everyone here bows to you so much? This is a serious question, because the Helsinki Foundation, you know, Professor Łętowska at the beginning of this office... Thank you very much, sir. What is your attitude toward Masonry's participation in political life, Professor? I'll be grateful for the lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I have already had the opportunity to ask a few questions during the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, to thank you also today when presenting the position of the club, so this time briefly: What was, what was the biggest obstacle, the difficulty in performing the ombudsman's duties, as you can see, and what is most helpful? And what danger do you see to this office, to exercise it in the way I have spoken of it, the righteous and the just, and the independent? What threats do you see to this office in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very good, Mr. Spokesman. I apologize for this absence for the reasons I didn't think I had for part of the debate. By the way, if your marshal allows, in this maybe slightly extended minute I will express a few thoughts on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, the Polish People's Party in the previous term of office, to join these words of appreciation, Mr. Spokesperson, for these difficult but at the same time wonderful 5 years of your work and this personal dimension. Even those who may have many different opinions appreciate the high class of office. But first of all, on behalf of my parliamentary club, I would like to thank you for the past 5 years (the bell) of the Ombudsman's office. Despite the permanent reduction of the budget, as we have seen, the effectiveness of this work deserves the highest recognition. The operation of field facilities, this openness to the smallest, but very important for those affected - this is extremely important. But also for upholding the historical truth. Here I would like to thank you in the atmosphere of celebrating the century of regaining independence, the century of the Battle of Warsaw for this initiative regarding the cassation complaint concerning one of the fathers of independence, one of the main heroes of the Battle of Warsaw, whose anniversary we will celebrate, Vincent Witos. The point is to erase the Brest sentence. [[Applause]] This is an initiative for which I would like once again to thank you, on behalf of myself, but also President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, from this place, very warmly, I think that the bar over the past five years has been placed extremely high by you and that it is such an indication for those who will come after you to act as an ombudsman in order to be an appropriate signpost. Thank you, Marshal, again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u208	Thank you very much. Please, last question, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u209	To Mrs. Magdy Beyat, such a warning: if you take the Ombudsman too seriously for the fight against pathosstreaming, we will still have a transmission with the Sejm cut off by what you say here sometimes. [[Applause]] On the other hand, to your spokesperson: you spoke about the end of three divisions of power in Poland. Did I hear you right? Three... What? What's the three division of power? When was the threefold division of power in Poland? Where in the Constitution is the threefold division of power? Members can be members of the government, parliament chooses government, the government has a legislative initiative, most of the laws are in government, and the president is in the barricade, and it's not known whether it's a dog or an otter. When was the threefold division of power in Poland? I understand that the Law and Justice have some work done in cementing this mess... Ha, ha, ha! ...but don't leave the role, but let's give the merit of our constitution in this matter. In Poland there is no three divisions of power, there was no power, and probably will not be long. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u210	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u211	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to present annual information and information on the state of compliance with civil rights and freedoms. I would like to thank you for the positions of the various parliamentary and parliamentary clubs, as well as for the questions. I'll try to react synthetically to them. Maybe I'll start with questions, critical comments. First of all, President Janusz Korwin-Mikke said something that he had not seen any of my activities regarding the leader of the Change Party. It so happens that even I know the name of the party leader The change that actually was temporarily arrested - Mr.Matthew Piskorski - and so it happens that we have taken the case. As I recall, the applicant in this case - on the basis of this we took the case - was Mr Zygmunt Wrzodak. We had really intense correspondence with the D.A.'s office about the temporary arrest. The problem is that I couldn't talk about the case in public, because it was a case where the main motives and grounds for provisional arrest were classified, and our correspondence was held in secret law firm mode. That's not an argument. Every person who includes the office, the position of the Ombudsman, has a certificate of access to classified information and in this manner we have conducted correspondence. If the Member expects me to do so, of course I am ready to present in writing when, on what dates, what correspondence... You've been doing correspondence, and a guy's been in prison for three years. Yes, but the thesis that you have formulated is that I have done absolutely nothing. This is a false thesis, because I have done something about it and I am able to present not specific documents, but dates, a list of actions that have been taken on the matter. That's the first thing. I'm sorry. Second thing. Mr Braun made a number of criticisms about the Ombudsman's office, the genetic defect, the original sin associated with the formation of that office. I would say, sir, that perhaps in fact the moment of the institution's creation was a moment of such specific liberalisation and power... 1982? Seven. 1987 You're gonna learn history. At the beginning of the 1980s administrative courts were established, later, in 1985, 1986, 1987 - Constitutional Court, the Court of State and the Ombudsman's Office. On the other hand, the person who became the first spokesperson for civil rights, Professor Ewa Łętowska basically showed what independence is in the exercise of this office and what it is really all about, I would say, such a very legal and good communication helping citizens. [[Applause]] And the effect of that is that the next spokespersons have been brought forward by citizens with complaints. And they keep checking in. One of the questions concerned the number of complaints. That's approx. 25.27,000. complaints per year. This number varies depending on the topics that appear. These are both the systemic problems that have existed for years, as well as the new issues that are emerging. I will also talk about this in this context. On the other hand, the fact that these citizens are turning, moreover, that we are really actively trying to help where we can, through individual interventions, general speeches relating to the problems in question in general, judicial interventions, access to legal proceedings - it all affects the improvement of life, you can say, well-being and the state of respect for citizens' rights and civil liberties. You asked such a question, it was as follows: Where have you been for the last six months, Mr. Spokesman? You're a politician here. Where have you been? Well, like everybody else, we've been taking care of... When the nation took for its face, where were you? Okay, I want to answer that right now, right? Mr President, since the start of the pandemic and since the introduction of the epidemiological threat and then the epidemic, I have been - I am all the time, because we still have an epidemic state - and I have stood by the rights and civil liberties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ombudsman's office received 3,600 complaints about the pandemic. We took individual interventions in about 800 cases, in dozens of cases we joined the proceedings and, moreover, we even managed to repeal these absurd penalties of 10,000. zł imposed by health care. We have prepared opinions for all subsequent crisis shields. It was a great, huge effort to prepare sometimes day by day opinions on many, many legal acts that were changed. And imagine, we have prepared 100 general speeches on various systemic problems related to the pandemic. And at that time, actually. We've done statistics about six months from now. It was a period of extremely intense work for my entire team. And for that, I would like to thank the team once again publicly. I'm here with Director General Katarzyna Jakamowicz. Thanks to her work and the work of her team almost overnight we were able to go to remote work, online, and work in a undisturbed way. In turn, spokesperson Stanisław Trociuk, my deputy, took a whole range of actions concerning precisely these restrictions of freedom, the fact that no emergency was introduced, and should be introduced, that all these absurd bans on entering the forest were introduced, or even that in fact young people under the age of 18 were imprisoned in their homes. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that in all these cases we have been, we have acted. Also in the context of the election. What's more, I think that, for example. This election shouldn't take place because I think the election... A good time, a good action would be above all to declare an emergency state and organize elections after all. And the last election that took place was in violation of... I may surprise you here, but I remember that in the Senate I have criticised this agreement quite strongly over the divisions that it has established, in short, the exchange of the presidential candidate, but it has in fact violated the principle of equality in respect of passive electoral rights. The point is, if there was a candidate after the date was announced, then basically He wouldn't have had a chance to report it. Well, the only one who succeeded was Mr. Witkowski, who was scored, can be said to be the votes he collected earlier. And I don't think my position has been particularly pleasant for those who have made this agreement over division. As far as I'm concerned... Mr President, I have to do this because I do not accept vocabulary like Eurokolchoz. I believe that the European Union is an organisation that we owe very much to. But I understand that there is a kind of lack of confidence in the European institution in this sense, and I understand it a little bit. Right? Exactly. And now, sir, as it happens... At the same time, speaking about what I do or where I belong, I want to say that I am also a university professor, and I happen to be, for example. I know quite well the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Grzegorz Braun against Poland. It is at this European level that you have been granted the right in terms of guaranteeing freedom of expression. And I believe that these European institutions, whether in the Council of Europe or in the European Union, are needed and are helping the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Now, there's been a lot of questions... I would like to refer to two points that you mentioned - she is not with us, perhaps she is... What about this box? What about this box? And I'll be right back. Yeah, yeah, that's for sure. No, it's not every ridiculous question you have to answer. All the more reason why we have to go to the end. Well, yes, I would just like to say that Mrs Milczanowska was talking about the fact that I am acting on behalf of or at the request of the foreign ambassador. That sounded very dramatic. I would like to say that I am simply asking for the execution of the sentence, the judgments of the Polish courts in one case concerning the father, who cannot recover his daughter residing in Poland. My father's from Belgium and he's the only parent alive because my mother's dead. This is the case in which the Belgian embassy actually existed, but for us, the basis of action is not the speech of the Belgian embassy, but how the Polish courts ruled in this case. We are simply at the level of de facto non-compliance with the judgments of the Polish courts. And that's where we support you. Bravo! Oh, thank you. Okay, now yes, a few... Hurry up and ask questions. Mrs Jachira's question: How will we live now? That's the general question. I believe that citizens should know how strong constitutional guarantees give them in terms of freedom of speech, assembly, association, access to information and petitions. If they want and can use it, they can defend their rights, and I think they've proven it many times. Ms Nowacka's question on the protection of the various rights of minorities and groups discriminated against: in fact, during my term of office I managed to organise more than 200 meetings in individual cities of Poland. We have really travelled around Poland along and across and have repeatedly undertaken various interventions concerning different social groups, including procedural interventions. Mr Szczerba... In general, I thank Mr Szczerba for taking the time for today's sitting and for the Ombudsman's annual report today, because what he has done on Belarus deserves mine and should deserve our greatest respect. [[Applause]] When I saw the picture with Ales Bialacki, I was really touched. In answer to the question and maybe moving on to Mr Braun's question, about where I come from, where I come from... As a matter of fact, sir, I have the honour of knowing many human rights defenders from a large part of the world. If I could tell you who I belong to, it seems to me that a group of people who deeply believe in the meaning of the Constitution and deeply believe in the meaning of respect for human rights. And I'm glad that many people who do it, but also who have suffered a lot, trust me. And it's not about any formal membership, it's about the fact that they're just people who look at each other and tell them what they've been doing in the past, what they've been doing and trust each other. Mr Szczerba asked about the committee on older people. It's actually a big piece of work. I will try to make recommendations at the end of my term, in which direction it would be possible to go and how to sum this up. It seems to me that the most important thing is this - because this is illustrated by the epidemic of Coronavirus - to think to the fullest about how to link social protection to health care. 'Cause there's a gap here. It means that it's in two ministries, it causes that when problems occur in this space, it suddenly turns out that it doesn't work. Marshal, how much more can I do? It's been eight minutes, sir. Five more? Well, maybe it'll be quick. Good. Yeah, yeah. Of course, of course. Mrs Rosa asked about the rights of the LGBT community. I believe that there is indeed a powerful regression. As a result, I was talking about it, there are, among others. these resolutions adopted at local level, but also those actions that we have recently seen on the streets. But above all, the lack of legal protection in certain situations, such as violence against sexual orientation or speech, hates sexual orientation or sexual identity. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the guardians of persons with disabilities is not enforced. And in general what I see in the social policy of the government: on the one hand, I see a lot of positive things, on the other hand, I think there is a lack of will, energy, determination to solve various systemic problems. That is what Mrs Matysiak was talking about: for example social housing, as well as solving problems in the field of labour law, homelessness or the rights of people with disabilities. As far as the Silesian minority and its language are concerned, maybe the right to language, maybe I can say that one of the most important moments for me was Kazimierz Kutz's funeral and those moments when people like Marek Plura spoke in Silesian. Marshal Nowicka asked what should be done when it comes to the first change. I am in favour of the idea that fixing this will be a very complicated process and it will all depend on a possible political configuration. On the other hand, in the context of the judiciary: just before all these changes were made, the judiciary did not act as needed, the judiciary was not effective, in many cases it did not guarantee the real right of access to the court. And that was a good note that could be played by the rulers to reform the judiciary. Mr Olichwer asked about the Prime Minister's words. Of course, I am unable to accept this kind of language when politicians question scientific findings or even the findings of their own services such as health care, and these words were not happy. As I recall, I did not react directly to those words, but then I reacted to the words and made official speeches on how the European Union supposedly did nothing in the context of Coronavirus and how we supposedly would get the most money from the European Union. This is where I conducted official correspondence with the Prime Minister's office. Minister Grabarczyk asked how to strengthen the position of Ombudsman in the future. I believe that this depends primarily on good funding, but also on a culture of the functioning of a cooperative state. Mrs Prokop-Paczkowska asked about artistic freedom. Several interventions: cassation to the Supreme Court in the case of Mr.Jasie Kapela, intervention in the case of the Malta festival or transformations in various museums, including the World War II Museum and the Silesian Museum. In the case of pathosstreaming, Mrs Beyat's question, it seems to me that this work may continue even outside the Ombudsman's office if it would not be desirable. Mr. Spokesman, we'll be getting closer. to the end, if you don't mind, because... That's right, that's right. Then why all these questions if you don't want to hear the answer? What was that for? Mr Szłapka asked about the article. 7a, which means handing over files from the investigation to selected journalists. This is reprehensible practice. This was the opinion of the Venice Commission, which was largely ignored by the authorities. Here, part of the office's achievements is the preparation of a report, which is called the saddle Pegasa and which concerns the introduction of control over the activities of special services. As far as this new law is concerned, we are not always able to respond from hour to hour or day, but, of course, we will prepare an opinion on the law on the exclusion of liability for COVID-19 activities - this is Mr Szopiński's question. To the very end, what are the biggest obstacles to the Ombudsman's office? The biggest obstacle is the lack of cooperation. If the authorities are not cooperative, it is difficult to solve problems. What threats do I see in the future? Here I will repeat as a mantra: I wish every new spokesman to appreciate the staff he has, to appreciate the Ombudsman's Office and a bunch of fantastic officials, lawyers who have been working for human rights for many, many years. Mr Stanisław Trociuk, you can say, connected with the office for most of his professional career, because he started as an assistant to Prof. Ewa Łętowska, and later he was a deputy to four further spokespersons. It seems to me that many people in the office bring such a good spirit as the effective fight for civil rights and freedoms. If this is not appreciated, it will be a threat both to the future Ombudsman and to the office itself and consequently to the citizens. Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-14-sejm-16-1.u212	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm has read about the Ombudsman's activities and the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2019. [[Some Members are grateful to the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, and give him flowers.]] If you don't mind, I'll finish it. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 16th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 16th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Information on the date and agenda of the 17th session of the Sejm will be communicated to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 42]]
