ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u1	Resume session. Mr. Senator Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. Allow me to lend teachers as many good days as possible at school, prosperity and health in difficult times of pandemic, which also applies to many of us sitting here, because some of us, in addition to the Senator's mandate, also carry out the role of teachers at different levels, ranging from schools to universities. We wish teachers every success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before joining the voting block, we will hold a test vote to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that they need to click on the "OK" button and that 2 buttons need to be pressed "Transmit" after the vote in response to the confirmation question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Show me that remote page... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote... Thank you so much for pulling up the pages. Please state the results of the vote. 63 senators voted? [[Voting No 69]] Well, it's impossible, the result is untrue, because I see the results on three screens, and after simple, arithmetical addition, I see that more senators voted. We will therefore proceed with the repetition of this vote. Reset the machines. I am once again announcing only a test vote aimed at establishing a list of senators attending the meeting. I'm asking you to give me any vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. Now 96 senators voted and that's the real number. [[Voting No 70]] Thus, 96 senators are currently taking part in the meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 27, 28 and 29 October 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. The 27th of October was added at the request of the Ministry of Finance and will be devoted to the debate on the 2020 budget. This is because this debate must end by the end of October, because the Ministry has commitments to the European Commission. At the request of the Minister of Kościński, we will probably start this discussion at 4:00 p.m., you will receive it in a communication, with the intention of concluding them on 27 October and voting on the 2020 budget as soon as the work on this item has been completed. We're gonna go over all the other points and we're gonna do it normally. That's the extra information. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place at the end of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 209 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees considered 62 amendments, amendments which were previously tabled at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee and during the plenary session. 4 of these amendments were withdrawn, the remaining 58 were supported by 34 amendments. Of course, the amendments were of different importance. There are a lot of legislative amendments, of course, also substantive amendments. I think it is worth mentioning three amendments which had previously been the subject of lively discussions and committee meetings, and outside of meetings. Firstly, the committees supported the amendment allowing private operators to run animal shelters, but on behalf of the municipality and thus under its supervision. This is Amendment 17. Secondly, they also supported the labelling system, i.e. the so-called. chipping dogs, chipping no longer voluntarily, because it exists, but it is mandatory, with a central register. According to the applicants, but this is also international experience, this provision should reduce the number of animals, homeless dogs, it aims to, and thus significantly improve the situation in hostels. This is Amendment 44. Finally, thirdly, the committees supported the amendment introducing vacathio legis in respect of activities that are being wound up or reduced, with regard to the decommissioning of the fur industry and the limitation of ritual slaughter, to the religious slaughter of beef. This provision also introduces detailed rules on compensation payments. This is Amendment 51. I would like to end by thanking all the senators who worked on this bill, and in particular I would like to thank Senator Czerwiński here personally, who has repeatedly paid attention to the mistakes which, thanks to the fact that we work differently in the Senate than elsewhere, could be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u3	Thank you very much, senator. Indeed, thanks to all those who worked less than a month on this bill, including our numerous guests and representatives of various backgrounds, from supporters to opponents of this law. It's worth thanking for that. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In particular, I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 14, which is a minority proposal. This is an amendment, which includes: prohibit the execution of pet animals. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there is such practice that domestic animals are often executed. As the name suggests, pets are animals that have this unique emotional relationship with a whole group of householders, and therefore also with children. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask and recommend: let us introduce a statutory ban on the execution of pets. This is a situation that causes, especially in the youngest household, children who do not understand this situation a huge trauma associated with the loss of a beloved animal. I warmly ask you to accept this amendment, which is contained in the minority proposal. In this proposal we also prohibit competitions, lotteries and auctions in which pets are prizes. The practice so far has been so... Unfortunately, there have been situations where the winner of the lottery did not want a pet at all and this led to the situation of homelessness of that animal. Please, I recommend: let us accept an amendment, a minority proposal, introducing a ban on the execution of pets. This is Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u5	Thank you very much, senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present proposals supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We propose that the solutions proposed by the government and supported by a minority of committees, as tabled in the relevant amendments, be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u7	Thank you very much, senator. I would now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Józef Łyczak, to present proposals supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure, for the last time, because the bill is about to be voted out... I would like to ask for support, I think, of the most important amendments. These are amendments 25, 50 and 60. First of all, the whole Polish village, farmers, is waiting for these amendments to be adopted, but also for them to be adopted, so that the consequences of these bad records will not be affected by the inhabitants of the cities. This is very serious... In this law, these amendments We all know that. They're the most important. The government has resigned. He stepped down, but not quite. The compromise reached, proposed, led to a division of farmers. A ritual slaughter of poultry is permitted, but the slaughter of bovine animals is either suspended or restricted, whose breeding is equally important, if not a major branch. Therefore, I very much ask... I believe that the High House will agree to my request, for which they will be very grateful, I think, all Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, the senator, Marshal Mark Pęk, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, ask for the support of the minority proposals I have submitted and supported. These are 100% adjustments. agreed at the level of the management of the Law and Justice Club, which is seymous and senate, is the whole, as well as at the level of the government, because many of these most important amendments of a compromise nature are amendments recommended personally by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Of course, we can make amendments further in the Senate, but it will only be such an apparent victory for the senators, because this bill will return to the Sejm, and in order for the specific amendments of the Senate to enter into force, they must be supported by the majority of the Sejm. Therefore, the support of these amendments, which I am talking about, guarantees the entry into force of the compromise law. Compromise is the essence of this bill from the very beginning. The Sejm has managed to gather most of the political divisions, and I hope that this will also work in the Senate. I would like us to leave the Senate after this vote with such conviction that we have defended the interests of Polish farmers, minimized the negative aspects of this law in the sejm form, but we are also realistic and as Senators of Law and Justice we are a single club. Thank you very much... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What are the amendments?]] [[Voice from the room: Twenty-five....]] These are amendments that have already been discussed many times. The amendments proposed by your Prime Minister concern the authorisation of ritual slaughter of poultry, the extension of the transitional period by 1 year, the initiation of a certain system of compensation, compensation and announcements of the establishment of a state animal protection inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur want to speak yet? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were submitted by Pleno titulo: Senators of Bogucki, Borusewicz, Łyczak, Pupa, Chróścikowski, Pajak, Błaszczyk, Włosowicz, Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka, Senator of Nebula, Marshal of Pęk, Borowski, Senator of Jazłowiecka. In addition, the rapporteurs of the committee were Senators: Jerzy Chróścikowski, Jacek Bogucki, Marek Borowski, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I understand no one's speaking anymore. I would like to remind you that the following applicants have withdrawn their applications: Mr Marshal Marek Pęk (point 3 (8) in print No 209 Z), the Legislative Commission (paragraph 3) in print No 209 Z and Senator Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz (point 3) in print No 209 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will only be held if the previous proposals are rejected. Please prepare the monitors. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, twenty-four for, 64 against, nine senators abstained. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. One hundred senators voted, i.e. all, two for, 97 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 72]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection of the law and of the proposal for adoption of the law without amendments, we shall proceed to vote on the amendments tabled. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to focus, because these amendments are quite extensive, and because of the validity of this law I will read them. Attention, Amendment 1 is excluded from voting on Amendment 2. Amendment No 1 seeks to modify the definition of a race cat and a race dog by requiring a race cat to have a pedigree entered in the register kept by a Polish breeders' organisation entered in the National Court Register, a member of a felinological world organisation, and a requirement for a breed dog to have a pedigree documented in 3 generations of the pedigree registered in the Polish National Court Register kept by a breed organisation registered in the National Court Register, which is a member of the Cynological International Association registered in the judicial register of associations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 46 votes, 49 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 73]] We are therefore voting on Amendment 2. Amendment 2 aims to modify the definition of a race cat and a race dog by requiring a cat to have a racial pedigree entered in the register kept by the Union of Polish Felinology and the requirement for a dog to have a racial pedigree entered in the Polish Rodoprofessional Book maintained by the Union of Cynology in Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 3 seeks to modify the definition of the pen by specifying that it is a space with at least half of the minimum permissible surface paved by the ground. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 4 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 5 aims to ensure that the definition of animals used for special purposes also includes animals whose professional training and use are carried out on the basis of separate rules governing the detailed rules of operation of the Marshal's Guard, as well as non-governmental organisations operating in the form of an association or foundation which, in accordance with the statutory objectives, perform rescue or search tasks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 57 for, 41 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please... Oh, one more voice flies from a distance. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 7 aims, on the one hand, not to extend the powers of non-governmental organisations to take the animal away from its owner or keeper, on the other hand, To delete the rule providing that the animal may be taken away from its owner by any person if the action or omission of the owner directly threatens the life or health of that animal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 97 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 8 is an amendment withdrawn. Amendment 9 is also a withdrawn amendment. Amendment 10 will rule out voting on Amendments 11, 12 and 13. Amendment 10 seeks to modify the conditions for keeping the animal in a pen by adding the requirement to allow the animal the necessary movement outside the pen at least once a day and to increase the minimum surface area of the pen. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 12 for, 86 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 80]] The amendment was rejected. So we are voting on Amendment 11. The adoption of this amendment will rule out voting on Amendment 12. This amendment aims at establishing an obligation to ensure that the animals kept in a pen have the necessary movement outside the pen at least once a day and to add a standardization according to which the rules on keeping the animals in a pen are not applied to the animal shelters. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 6 for, 90 against, 3 abstained, you did not vote Senator Frankiewicz. [[Voting No 81]] Attention, the vote on Amendment 12 will exclude the vote on Amendment 13. Amendment 12 seeks to establish a regulation whereby the possibility of keeping animals in a pen refers to pet animals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 votes against, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 82]] Amendment 13 in connection with the adoption of Amendment 12 is omitted. It would only have an editorial character. Amendment 14 seeks to prohibit the organisation of projects in which a pet animal is awarded or the object of a lottery, auction or auction, the prohibition of participation in such projects, the ban on the execution of pet animals and the prohibition on the sale and acquisition of items where the pet animal is a free supplement to the item sold. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 57 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 83]] Amendment 15 seeks to ensure that the prohibition of reproduction of dogs and cats for commercial purposes does not include dogs and cats. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted against, 5 against, 92 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 16 seeks to clarify that the prohibition on the purchase of dogs and cats outside their breeding or breeding sites also refers to the acquisition of those animals via the Internet. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 44 votes against, 52 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 85]] Attention, on Amendment 17, 39, 48 and 57 must be voted together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 38 and 49. Amendments 17, 39, 48 and 57 aim to modify the tasks of municipalities to provide care to homeless animals, to enable entrepreneurs to operate their activities in the field of protection from homeless animals and to host shelters for homeless animals, as well as burial sites and incinerators of animal carcasses and parts thereof, and to delete the provisions providing for the expiry of existing authorisations for shelters for homeless animals, as well as for burials and incinerators of animal carcasses and parts thereof. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 56 votes against, 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 18 is an amendment withdrawn. Amendment 19 seeks to modify the scope of the municipal programme for the care of homeless animals and to prevent the homelessness of animals, as well as to impose information obligations on the mayor or president of the city in this respect, including notification of the relevant operators of the animal shelter and the subject providing 24-hour veterinary care in the event of accidents in which animals are injured. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 51 votes for, 46 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 20 extends the scope of the provision protecting animals from suffering with animals used for defence purposes and seeks to ensure legislative consequences in the revised Animal Protection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 21 seeks to allow exhibitions and animal shows to be organised solely by presenting the characteristics of the animal species concerned and by showing special and rescue dogs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 89]] Amendment 22 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 90]] Amendment 23 seeks, on the one hand, to require the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to participate in the adoption of a regulation on minimum conditions for the maintenance of individual species of animals used for film, sports and special purposes, on the other hand . for the correct legislative definition of one of the ministers participating in the issuing of this regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 91]] Amendment 24 seeks to establish the legal basis for the transfer of a withdrawn animal used for special purposes to the person in charge of further care. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes for, 44 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 92]] Attention, amendments 25, 50 and 60 must be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 53. The adoption of these amendments will result in an appropriate modification of Amendments 51, 58 and 61. Amendments 25, 50 and 60, on which we will be voting at the moment, aim to delete the added provisions in the Animal Protection Act, which refer to slaughter without stunning. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted against, 19 votes against, 79 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 26 will rule out voting on Amendments 27 and 28. The adoption of this amendment will result in an appropriate modification of Amendment 51. Amendment 26 seeks to preserve the existing rules on the slaughter of animals without prior stunning resulting from the Animal Protection Act and the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 14 votes against, 83 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 27 will rule out voting on Amendments 28 and 29. Amendment 27, first, seeks to ensure compliance with the provisions of Council Regulation No 1099/2009 on the protection of animals at the time of their killing, and second, provides that the requirement to be deprived of consciousness also does not apply to the slaughter of poultry in the manner provided for by the religious rite of the religious union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 95]] Amendments 28 and 29 are excluded from the vote on Amendment 27. Amendment 30 seeks to amend the legislative mandate to issue an implementing act, including the correct legislative definition of the Minister co-participating in its issue. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes for, 45 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 31 seeks to ensure that the inspection of animal shelters is carried out only by those veterinarians who are employees of the Veterinary Inspection or by persons designated under the Veterinary Inspection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 57 votes, 41 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 97]] Amendment 32 seeks to apply the correct legislative technique when adding new chapters to the Animal Protection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 33 seeks to correct incorrect referrals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 34 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 100]] Attention, amendments 35 and 37 should be voted on together. These amendments aim, on the one hand, at establishing a rule whereby, in cases of misconduct as defined in the amended Animal Protection Act, a public prosecutor may be a non-governmental organisation included on the list by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and a participation in the case of that organisation which has applied for punishment shall exclude the police from taking part in the case, on the other hand, and to modify the rules and procedures for the transfer of the animal on the basis of a final judgment of the court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 101]] The amendment was not supported by the majority. Amendment 36 seeks to supplement the conditions for listing non-governmental organisations entitled to act as a public prosecutor in criminal offences as set out in the amended Animal Protection Act, both for the requirement that members of their executive bodies and their supervisory authorities are not punishable by a final judgment for a criminal offence committed intentionally by public prosecution or a tax offence, and for the requirement that those organisations conclude an agreement with a veterinarian on the readiness to provide 24-hour medical and veterinary care to animals taken from the owner or guardian. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes against, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 102]] Amendment 37 was already voted on. . including Amendment 35. Attention, Amendments 38 and 49 must be voted on... [[Voice from the room: But we don't vote because...]] We don't vote, sir. The vote would only be if we rejected Amendment 17, 39, 48 and 57. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 40, which aims to ensure that the exercise of the rights of the non-governmental organisations or the chief veterinarian in animal offences and environmental offences are not subject to prior disclosure of the offence or to an application for proceedings by those entities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 103]] The amendment did not gain the majority. Attention, Amendment 41 will exclude the vote on Amendment 42. Amendment 41 seeks to grant the Road Transport Inspection a fine of up to PLN 5 000 in the mandate procedure in cases of criminal offences laid down in the amended Animal Protection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 44 for, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 104]] Amendment No 42 seeks to clarify that a fine of up to PLN 5 000 is issued by the competent veterinary inspection authority in the case of criminal offences referred to in the amended Animal Protection Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 98 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 105]] Amendment 43 seeks to ensure the legislative consequences of the establishment of a regulation according to which animal shelter activities can be carried out after a decision by the district veterinarian stating that the hostel complies with veterinary requirements has been issued. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 56 votes for, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 106]] Attention, amendments 44 and 46 should be voted on together. These amendments aim at establishing rules and procedures for the labelling of dogs by means of a microchip and the keeping of a central register of marked dogs and transitional rules in this respect for holders of dogs marked and unmarked before the date of entry into force of the law by means of a microchip. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 55 for, 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 107]] Amendment 45 seeks to complement the definition of fur animals with an indication of the definition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, ninety-nine, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 108]] Amendment 47 seeks to establish a transitional regulation whereby the existing provisions apply to animal collection proceedings initiated and not completed by a final decision before the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 109]] Attention, amendments 51 and 62 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 52, 53, 58 and 61. Amendments 51 and 62 aim, on the one hand, to ensure that operators carrying out economic activities on the date of entry into force of the Act in the field of the rearing or rearing of fur animals and the economic activity in the field of slaughter of animals which may be slaughtered in a special manner provided for by religious rites of religious associations may carry out such activities on the basis of the provisions already in force until 31 July 2023 in the case of fur animals and until 31 December 2025 in the case of religious slaughter, on the other hand, and In order to determine the rules and procedures for the implementation of claims against the State Treasury for damages resulting from the need to comply with the requirements imposed by the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 50 for, 42 against, 8 abstentions. [[Voting No 110]] Amendment 54 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 58 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 111]] Amendment 55 seeks to establish the power to bring an action before the General Court by entities engaged in entertainment or entertainment activities which are obliged to transfer animals used for entertainment and entertainment purposes so far, held, bred and presented in circuses or circus bases, in connection with the entitlement to compensation for that purpose. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes against, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 112]] Amendment No... [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u12	Senator Rafał Ambrozik is reporting a problem. He's lost communication. Is there any way to find out? He can't vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u13	Look, is this temporary or... The result of the vote is clear, but we will check before the next vote. We have two amendments left and a vote on the whole thing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Call the senator. One minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Ambrozik is asking for a few minutes, because, in his youth language, he's blown up the entire Internet at home. How he's reporting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I understand a five-minute break is enough for him. [[But he wants to vote for or against?]] There are two amendments left and the whole... [[Voice from the room: But how much, Mr. Marshal?]] Five minutes. [[Voice from the room: Waiting longer is already...]] [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 03 to 16 minutes 08]] Please take your seats slowly. Now Amendment 59. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please? We proceed with the vote on Amendment 56. This amendment aims to establish a regulation whereby a social organisation whose statutory purpose is to protect animals may exercise the powers of a non-governmental organisation included in the list provided for by the law kept by the Minister responsible for public administration, provided that an application for inclusion on that list is submitted within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 votes 48 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 113]] This amendment did not gain a majority. Amendment 59 seeks to ensure legislative coherence of the rules on the date of entry into force of the various provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51, 44 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 114]] Amendment 61 is an amendment which has been withdrawn and Amendment 62 has already been voted on together with Amendment 51. We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 76 votes against, 11 against and 10 abstentions. [[Voting No 115]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 16th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose content cannot be determined or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Senator Jerzy Wczyła, if you'd like to speak. Is Senator Vistula ready to make his statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am making a statement from a group of senators who I am referring to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mrs Julia Przyłębska. The Senators of the Republic of Poland, whose names I will mention in a moment, consider that the request of a group of Members to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the provisions concerning the exercise of duties by the Ombudsman until the new Ombudsman takes office is unfounded. Moreover, the abuse of the law is a request to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of the provisions of the Act with the Constitution in a situation where the Sejm did not fulfil its obligation to designate candidates for the post of Ombudsman within a time limit which would allow the term of office to be terminated before the expiry of five years. From the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution follows the obligation of the Sejm to elect an ombudsman in a way that ensures continuity of office without the need to extend its term of office. This obligation has not been fulfilled and the application to the Constitutional Court demonstrates the instrumental treatment of the Constitutional Tribunal for current political purposes. This political objective is to take away the powers of the Senate, which, in accordance with the Constitution, must give its consent to the candidate presented by the Sejm. We can't agree to this degradation of the Senate's role. Undoubtedly, one of the fundamental constitutional principles of the Republic of Poland is the principle of maintaining the continuity of the state authority and the stable functioning of its organs. This applies in particular to the Ombudsman's Office as a body which upholds freedom and human and citizen rights, including the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. The principle of continuity of the Ombudsman's operation and the continued execution of his duties requires that the Ombudsman shall assume his duties until the new Ombudsman takes office. Confirmation of the evaluation is found in the Constitution's provisions relating to the continuity of the functioning of other bodies: the President of the Republic of Poland. 127 of the Constitution; the Sejm and the Senate; Art. 98 of the Constitution; Council of Ministers, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 Constitutions. Similar solutions are also adopted by laws governing the system and functioning of other state control and law protection bodies, including the Supreme Audit Chamber, the National Radio and Television Council or the National Bank of Poland. The legislation therefore includes the concern of the legislator to maintain the continuity of the functioning and implementation of powers by the constitutional authorities of the State, as is the case with Article. 3 (1) (a) The 6th RPO Act. Thus, the rule adopted by the group of Members not only does not conflict with the constitution, but on the contrary It is the fulfilment of constitutional principles and values. We therefore believe that the proposal of a group of Members should be assessed as unfounded and that proceedings brought before the Constitutional Tribunal should be terminated. At the same time, we are concerned that the submission of this proposal is part of a non-standard practice in which the role of the Constitutional Tribunal will be brought into line with the legitimacy and justification of the actions of the parliamentary majority, including those which are fundamentally incompatible with constitutional values and standards. This statement is presented on behalf of the senators: Paweł Arndt, Halina Biedy, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Jacek Burego, Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Marcin Bosacki, Alicja Chybicka, Robert Dowhan, Artur Dunin, Stanisław Gawłowski, Benjamin Godyli, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Tomasz Grodzki, Janusz Gromek, Jolanta Hibner, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Agnieszko Kolacz-Leszczyńska, Władysława Komarnicki, Wojciech Nebury, Stanisław Lamczyk, Beata Małecka-Libera, Ewa Matecka, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Janusz Pęcherz, Aleksandr Pociej, Jadwiga Rotnicki, Sławomir Rybicki, Joanny Szdrój, Szby, Szk, Szbarje, Szałełełełełki, Szebki, Szk, Szk, Szebły, Szk, Szk, Szka, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szczabkiełełełełełowski, Szk, Szka, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szka, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szk, Szkąteryw, Szka, Szk, Szebkiełełełełełełełełełełełełełełełełełełełeł, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Szka, Sze Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, one more thing. [[Another one?]] Yes. [[Good.]] The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki and the Minister of Health, Adam Niedzielski. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister, I am concerned about the information of the Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship about the transformation of the current departments of the city hospital in Elbląg into infectious wards for patients with COVID-19. There are several factors which give rise to suspicion that this decision does not take into account all the consequences that should be taken into account by the withdrawal of the voivode from that decision. Here are the most important of these factors. One. Medical services of infectious troops in this hospital already deal with the infected virus causing COVID-19 and are already working at the limit of mental and physical endurance. You can't put more pressure on them. Two. The hospital is in the process of implementing a project financed by EU funds worth PLN 50 million. This implementation is already prolonged and is threatened with multi-million-dollar losses. Three. There are more and more signs that in the days of Coronavirus we forget about other health care tasks, that they are sick and in need of medical care for other reasons. Elbląg, the city of over 100 thousand, is also concerned. Here access to specialists, despite other hospitals, becomes more difficult. It should be added that Elbląskie hospitals serve not only the city but also the subregion, i.e. a total of about 200,000 inhabitants. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister to carefully examine the voivode's decision and correct it. I am convinced that there is a different possibility to secure pandemic needs than to exploit beyond the capabilities of one hospital. Please indicate how you react to this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u15	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u16	Mr. Marshal! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. It directly concerns the condition of health care in Wrocław and Lower Silesia, and it is also a form of begging for proper interest and in some sense for help. We know very well what other daily records of COVID-19 have been given today: in the whole country more than 6.5 thousand sick people, the dead 116 people. It seems that, under such special circumstances, health care should be given special care, supervision, financial care, simply support. And that regardless of who is the founding body of the entity. When I was still president of Wrocław, during the next transformation of local government, I resisted such a simple temptation to expand power with fragmentary elements of responsibility related to medical care. Wroclaw is not responsible for any hospital today. I think he's the only city like this, so big. This does not mean that he is not interested and that he does not support health care. He's helping with this open... It also supports through prevention through strengthening and participating in diagnostic tasks. Participates in this process, long and extremely effectively. In fact, however, the marshal is responsible for the most important areas of medical care today, and in the vertical of his replacements, of course, a specific person and a specific team. In general, if you look at the political responsibility in this area, you can see that it is on the side of the current governing team, because the Marshal's office, the Marshal's authority, is created today primarily by members of this party. For this reason, on the one hand, it is easier for me to seek help for health care in the area of responsibility of this team and, on the other hand, it is harder to criticize what's going on in the health care department. But first things first. Firstly, health care, health care workers, sanitation workers are indeed catastrophic and at the limit of stamina. This is confirmed by objective data, confirmed by doctors, paramedics, paramedics. Secondly, unfortunately, in these particular circumstances many personal decisions taken in recent months are not only questionable, but create an absolutely uncomfortable, conflictogenic situation and for many people simply not understood. This applies to personal changes in the Lower Silesian Cell Transplant Center. The very good, experienced director of Marek Moszczyński, who served as head of Dolmed, was changed, suddenly and probably not by accident. Also the creator of one of the key hospitals built from scratch, the director of Rafał Guzowski, was replaced by a person without even similar experience. The same happened to Victor the King, the boss and co-founder of the Lower Silesian Rehabilitation Center in Stone Mountain. There is no time to exchange the next units that she has encountered, in short, a devastating exchange of excellent staff for: theologian, banker, highway construction specialist or simply kavec. For me, these are unacceptable situations, especially during the pandemic period. Today, the implementation of the biggest, most important investment in Lower Silesia is the implementation of the oncology centre, the new hospital. He declared support for this investment by President Andrzej Duda, similar declarations were made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Today I fear that, because of this responsibility, a certain degree of carelessness in the implementation of this most important object at the moment, the most important investment is simply at risk. I am getting information about the strange fate of the project selection, about the very unfortunate ways of verifying the costs of this investment, about the change by the Marshal authorities of the concept chosen by the Minister. Incoherence in this matter simply threatens the failure to implement this extremely important investment. What I am based on today, looking at the project of this project, are also costs. The declaration that came out here about a budget of 700 million gross... Unfortunately, at present, this budget is also at risk. It seems that the decisions taken are going in this direction to choose a much, much more expensive concept, without proper financial coverage and then to implement it by annexing. It's a dangerous road. It's a way of threatening this investment. I will also draw attention to other entities that work in emergency conditions. We know the effort He's in the fight against the pandemic today, Professor Simon. But I want to stress: his team works on the leftovers, and the team is excellent. Clinical hospitals today make very risky decisions, being actually against the wall under the circumstances of COVID. Today, the Ministry of Health must be active. And that's where my appeal comes from. More interest, surveillance and coordination in pandemic activities, but also in the care of key healthcare units. I am particularly appealing for interest in the fate of such an important project as the oncology centre in Wroclaw. I recommend positive care and support from Wrocław and Lower Silesian health care, because I think that today it is able to not agony but extremely difficult. And the effects of this will be very important and indeed the worst for, in short, patients. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u17	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Christopher Elephant. It's remote. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. I kindly ask the Prime Minister to pay attention to the need to clarify the rules so that doctors providing night and Christmas healthcare can, like primary healthcare doctors, direct patients to free tests on COVID-19. [[Bad connection quality]] ...diagnoses the patient as part of a teleport or a direct visit, may, if the infection is suspected, direct the patient to the tests, as well as introduce this fact and patient data into the information system. And such a patient is visible and in the health care system, and for sanitary and epidemiology services, which can run appropriate quarantine procedures for the patient and contact persons. Doctor of night and Christmas health, diagnosing such patients e.g. Saturday morning, he may be released for medical treatment, but in order for the patient to be able to take the test, he must appear in the POZ or arrange for a teleporade at the earliest on Monday, which is not so obvious with the increasing number of advice in the POZ. My proposal is to shorten the time from the moment of suspicion of infection to the time of the test, to the faster isolation of the potentially infected person, to the faster regulation of quarantine for contact persons... [[Bad connection quality]] ...patients with positive test results and medically justified cases to isolate. The patient learns about a positive test result e.g. Friday after 6:00 p.m. or Saturday. Using the advice of a night doctor and Christmas health care 'Cause, for example, if you feel unwell or if your symptoms get worse, you may get a referral to the isolate without waiting until Monday for a referral from your primary healthcare professional. Mr. Marshal, the second statement is the same as the content with the first, but I am sending it to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski, with the hope of quickly introducing the solutions I propose for the care of patients and the relief of the POZ and to reduce the development of the Coronavirus epidemic in our country at least a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u19	Thank you, Senator. The Internet has been suspended several times during your speech, and I propose that you send by e-mail or fax a statement to the Senate Office. Okay? Thank you. Senator Wojciech Necessary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, In the interests of the security of the Polish society and medical personnel in connection with this epidemic situation, I hereby submit the following questions to the honourable Minister. First. How many hospital departments in the country have stopped receiving patients from 10 September to 10 October 2020 due to infection of staff or infection of patients with SARS-CoV-2 koravirus? Two. How many vacant seats in observation-infectious units and infectious branches were reported daily between 10 September and 10 October 2020? Third. How many health care professionals were infected with SARS-CoV-2 between 10 September and 10 October 2020, and how many were quarantined, divided into groups: doctors, nurses and midwives, laboratories, physiotherapists and rehabilitationists, other staff, e.g. Administration? Four. How many patients infected with SARS-COV-2 have been treated in county, voivodship and clinical hospitals? This applies to non-observative and infectious branches. Fifth. How long was Remdesivir's supply of Remdesivir secured for the needs of infectious troops on 12 October 2020, assuming its current consumption? Six. What are the plans for further involvement of hospitals at each level of the fight against the coronavirus, e.g. conversion of hospitals or individual branches dedicated to patients with COVID-19? Seven. How much has the debt of public hospitals in Poland increased between 1 September 2019 and 30 September 2020? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-14-senat-16-4.u21	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 16th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Office of Senate Works, room 255. The 16th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 32]]
