ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u1	Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and consider it as item six of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, after considering paragraph six, the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure will be held. After the vote, we will proceed with the examination of the point concerning the second reading of the draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the local government. A half-hour break will then be announced, during which committees will carry out the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 virus, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Following the interruption, a request will be made to supplement the agenda with a point concerning the second reading of this draft law, a viral specialty. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and included in print No 87, and the committee's report In print No 87 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that there was a committee meeting at which this draft was presented. After a lively discussion, the project was adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Marek Borowski. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, contained in print No 87 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the outcome of the vote. 79 senators voted, 46 votes, 3 against, 30 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the local government. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 82 and the committee's report In print No 82 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee's report is very brief. The Commission unanimously adopted a draft resolution with one amendment, such as in principle a letter, in order to convert the small letter into a big one. Please accept this draft resolution with an amendment. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u5	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants also authorised Senator Halina Poor to represent them. Are there any questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could move on to the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u6	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Health on First Reading of the bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print 88, will be held today in room 217 immediately after the announcement of a break in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u7	What time is it? Half an hour. 10.50 p.m. ? Dismissed until 10.50 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 19 to 14 minutes 03]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u8	I'm reopening the session. I'd like another Senator Secretary to take a seat at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. and consider it as item eight of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] All right, everyone, calm down. I would like to remind you that this proposal has been submitted by the Health Committee and the Legislative Commission, is included in print 88 and the committee's report In print No 88 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The nature of this bill and all that preceded it, all these conversations, discussions, disputes and events... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u10	Excuse me, there's a request for a five-minute break. That's why I'm running it. Thank you very much. I'll have your senator after the break. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 06 to 14 minutes 13]] Ladies and gentlemen, due to a mistake in the printing process, I am extending the break to 14.25. It's about printing new prints. There's just a mistake in printing. Thank you very much. Time-out to 2.25. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 13 to 14 minutes 21]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 14.35. We're waiting for the prints. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 21 to 14 minutes 35]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We are returning to item 8 of the agenda. I would like to remind you that the draft was submitted by the Health Commission and the Legislative Commission and is included in print 88 and the committee's report In print No 88 S-revised. Once again, I ask Senator Marek Borowski, rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The bill that we are considering today, as I said, as I have already started to say, is not a simple, banal or one of many that we consider in normal mode. It will be a law that will regulate many areas of our lives under very difficult conditions, in terms of combating an epidemiological threat, which so far neither subsides nor reveals signs that it is stabilizing. A week ago, when the government first presented in the Seym, and then in the Senate, the first draft of such a law, which would regulate many areas of our lives, would give the government all kinds of power to act quickly... already then we had the first, very insightful one. and a long discussion which has shown that this law, although of course necessary, also raises a number of doubts. Both what is not in it and what is in it, but what should not be. However, because there were provisions there I also had the opportunity to talk about it here, from this bleacher Which were extremely urgently needed, we all decided here... the majority of the Senate, which in our political reality is an opposition, decided not to make any amendments, in order to enable this to happen quickly. But at the same time, given the number of reservations, she announced that she would immediately proceed to the drafting of the amending act. I think it was a good decision, because the government already uses some of the provisions of this law today, otherwise it would not have been able to use them. We've come to work on this bill. It was so difficult that time was very short and at the same time the scale of interest in this law was huge. It was the interest of citizens, naturally, it was the interest of employees of companies, it was the interest of employers, it was the interest of doctors, pharmacists, various kinds of organizations, e.g. logistics, transport, organizing various kinds of business ventures, etc., etc., because this epidemic that we are dealing with is not really missing anyone. And we've been trying to talk about these senators who are members of the Legislative Committee and the Health Committee, although others have also been involved to listen to everyone, to collect their proposals from them, of course, all the time in contact with the government, so that in an optimal way I don't say: the maximum is to meet their expectations. There were various kinds of proposals that would be extremely difficult not only to calculate financially, but also simply to put into legal circulation. It would have to be considered whether they would have any other negative effects. It is regrettable that we have had to abandon some of these demands, not prejudicing their correctness or wrongness, but leaving it consciously for further discussion, which will be held in the Senate in the event of the adoption of this law. We have therefore taken this area, part of our discussions as a consultation, which will certainly be helpful in making subsequent decisions. But, of course, part of all these proposals, demands, and so on. She wasn't just right, she was urgent. We thought that such changes should be included in this bill. We have already presented the principles of this law in various fora, but we have never done so before the whole House or before the citizens who are interested in our debate today, so without trying to discuss each article and each item individually, I would like to mention in a way, I would say, orderly, sector-specific solutions that are here. Generally speaking, there are solutions to the broader medical sphere And also the economic sphere. There have also been legislative changes, minor changes, necessary changes, which I will not talk about at all. As for economic changes, I would like to stress that if this draft law contains the wording of the company, the enterprise, the entrepreneur, etc., etc., they do not mean only individual people, entrepreneurs or any abstract entities, enterprises. In fact, it is about workers, it is about millions of Poles, about all those who are employed in these companies. These solutions, which have been included here and which relate to companies, actually refer to them. If the company is threatened, if the company ceases to produce, terminates contracts, it cannot meet its obligations, it naturally ends with a breakdown of the employment relationship and the problems of employees. Therefore, in this sense, all these proposals are very pro-Citizenish. The second segment is a medical segment, in which there are also several solutions. The third segment, which we stressed when we discussed the government law, is the segment that concerns, you can say, the scope, the scale, the depth of these specific powers of the government. The bill that the government introduced a week ago, which we passed a week ago, was a special state law. Of course, it didn't go as far as the state of emergency in the Constitution. It's clear. However, it contained various types of solutions that gave the government far-reaching powers. Of course, the purpose of these powers was for the government to react quickly to the changing situation, but in that debate we came to the conclusion that most of them came to this conclusion. The fact that some of these powers go too far, some of these powers do not apply strictly to the situation which is, do not concern the epidemic situation, and they are, so to speak, incorporated into this law into growth. That's why there's this third segment in the bill that I'm honored to present right now. Now I'm going to say very briefly, very quickly, about some of the important things that are in this bill, and then about what is not in it. Well, first of all, there are situations where the operation of the workplace is suspended. We have made a provision here that in such a situation the payment of wages is divided, halfly, between the employer and the Treasury. Secondly, in the case of mandatory hospitalisation or quarantine, we are talking about not just one employee, but often very many employees. The remuneration shall be paid from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. The point was that she wouldn't burden the entrepreneur. Third, there are situations. and they are included in the Government Act When the President of the Council of Ministers may issue orders, he may issue orders to different authorities and this is of course natural, but he may also issue orders to companies. Well, it may be different with these instructions when it comes to the costs that the company has to bear. If such instructions cause costs, it will also result in the fact that such costs, and there are various costs, including planning, implementation, etc., will be fully covered by the State Treasury. This is a guarantee for businesses. Next case. There are obvious cases of what is already happening in which the company is suffering damage may not be so much as a result of the decision of the public authorities, although in connection with them, but more because of the situation itself. Well, there are. tourism companies, companies that organize various kinds of I'm sorry for using a foreign word for an event. We know that today all of our clients, including tourists, cancel orders, cancel departures, and all of these companies are in a very difficult situation. Therefore, we propose in this law that compensation for the damage suffered by companies in connection with public authorities' decisions should be paid to companies, e.g. in the area of quarantine of a large number of workers. It may happen that there will be a worker in the company who is infected and who unfortunately has spread this virus, and therefore quarantine must be subjected to a large, large group of workers, which of course causes the company to stop working, not to fulfil its obligations, to suffer various types of damage. It therefore has the right to compensation. As regards those companies which, as a result of the overall situation, had to withdraw their orders and therefore lose liquidity as a result of the withdrawal of orders. Of course, this is also related to the payment of salaries to employees, etc. This is where we propose to launch the loans. These loans would, also in the event of proper use and proper settlement, after a certain time, in a significant part of the depreciated, be 75% They'd be dead. This is the same indicator as was applied to the Act on the Elimination of Floods, as was previously the case. That's where the record came in. Next case. There is a law, namely the Law on job protection solutions. This bill says that if a company, so to speak, falls into big financial difficulties and lasts for six months, then it can apply under this law for some financial support when it comes to wages for employees. Well, just that there are certain conditions in this bill... I don't want to go into details here, but there are conditions in it that don't fit the current situation, so in our project we put up with these conditions. And that would be the main thing that... Well, there's work to be done remotely. Remote employers are encouraged to work, and rightly so. Except, of course, not everyone can work remotely, but where they can... But the employers pointed out that this case was not regulated anywhere. That's how popular it is to work remotely. Issues relating to the rights and obligations of the employer and the worker should be covered here. These issues were also included in this project, as well as some powers of the employer to control No, such an initial and very superficial, e.g. measuring the temperature of the incoming worker. Because there is a risk that such a person will ban the rest, and that will result in all the consequences I have been talking about, also for the state budget. So it's rational. These were demands from employers. And this is the first segment. Once again, this is true for millions of workers. Mr. Senator, I'm just reminding you that four more minutes... No, I don't have that limit... The rapporteur has 20 minutes. Yeah, 20 minutes. But that's a suggestion. Suggestion, yes. And as a matter of urgency, it's like 15 more minutes... Second segment... There's no urgency here, Senator. The second segment is the medical segment. In this bill, we have enabled doctors in private practice to purchase medical devices necessary to protect themselves from infection with the virus. It just wasn't in the government bill. These products could only be addressed to hospitals, but this practice was not. And this is insanely important, because these doctors are taking in very many citizens. Similarly, with regard to the regulation of medicinal products. The Government Act provides for this possibility and imposes an obligation to first supply patients. We noted that medical personnel were also involved. We have therefore supplemented the provisions in this point. And with regard to the issues of government powers, we have improved all these solutions, the rules in which government powers have been included to apply certain extraordinary measures, not in the form that in the event of an epidemiological threat, only... It was a more flexible and more indeterminate formula concerning the danger of human health and life. This, of course, fits the current situation, but it can also be used in other situations, not really known what. That is why we have simply replaced these wordings with: action in a situation of epidemiological risk with infections, infectious diseases, etc. And two more lines. The government law provided for the exemption of public authorities and not only, because also hospitals, from the obligation to comply with the law, completely exempted Public procurement laws and laws related to construction law, spatial planning, etc. Without going into details, I will say that we have left far-reaching powers to act quickly here, but we have established some minimum limits. This will not hinder this, but will ensure that it is both on the part of the security of citizens and on the part of certain basic principles on transparency, simply transparency of action. So much for this really very synthetic discussion of what's in this bill. However, I must also say what is not in this law, although it was raised very strongly, very strongly, both by those who sent these proposals to us and by the senators who, after all, are in contact with voters. First and foremost I have to say, she's raised the most controversy. This is an extremely timely matter at the moment. This is a matter of parental benefits that will be forced I mean, they're here or they're coming, which is Monday. To care for children who do not go to school. And it's not just about schools; there are crèches and kindergartens and certain clubs. We've also completed this, as I'm going to say. It was one of the amendments that was tabled on the daily facilities for children with disabilities; there are various groups of children with disabilities. Here one of the parents will necessarily have to stay at home. The current provision states that such an allowance is due for 14 days per child up to 8 years. We considered that in this situation this provision should be substantially extended. And the other one who... Why it didn't happen, in a minute. The second provision, which also seems to be extremely important, is a provision concerning the possibility of testing for the presence of a virus for payment, i.e. a person individually goes to a private laboratory, pays and can be tested. I would like to say that in both of these cases we have come across a lot of resistance from the government and, of course, the Senators of Law and Justice. The problem was that... we all want the bill to be adopted as soon as possible; I hope that the Sejm will not delay. As a result of various kinds of conversations, arrangements, etc., etc. it was considered that the case of these studies could still be raised in the Sejm. On the other hand, the government stressed that when it comes to extending the article on childcare, this still requires calculation, and today it is difficult to assess. As a result, the committees agreed not to extend it. Nevertheless, I would like to say that in the sense of parents 'Cause we've had that kind of signal before. In fact, those who have been going to quarantine since Monday may be in serious doubt. Of course, there is still a possibility that if satisfactory solutions are not adopted in the Seym, the bill will return to the Senate. Of course, we may not be inclined this time to say that we need to proceed quickly, but we can only make such an amendment. Yeah, but this is the time... We also have no guarantee of how soon the Senate will be working. Well, in short, I had to explain why this was the form of this law, because the baby-sitting provision was very much expected by many citizens. Thousands or, probably, hundreds of thousands of people are no longer involved here. And, ladies and gentlemen, there are still minor amendments to this project. The one I was talking about was at the request of Senator Elephant, which is to introduce an extension to these facilities daily. Public procurement law has also been included in the version we have proposed, i.e. allowing for quick action, but requiring the contracting authority to comply with certain transparency rules. A catalogue of employer's and employee's rights and responsibilities in a situation of risk of infection with the virus has also been clarified. In this situation, I ask the High House to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Marek Borowski. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u13	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, I have a question about the matter you were talking about at the end, which is babysitting. That's actually a problem. I was approached by a person whose child was just eight years old. It is a single mother and she is actually in an extremely difficult situation. And I would like to ask you why there was no possibility in your opinion, I don't know, to introduce a postulated provision for extending this age to 10 years, for legitimate reasons, let's call it... Is this a joke? ...pedagogical and educational? That's the first line. And the second point: was the situation that is about to arise during committee meetings considered and which, in my opinion, should be taken into account in some way in the legal system for a particular time, however, in which we are currently in Poland? Namely, what if they are abandoned to society by caring for the child of one of the parents? I'm thinking of health care here. I know there are other regulations that sort of counter this threat, but there are areas, I don't know, post office, people service, just this kind of institution... Does this law provide for mechanisms in this regard? Because it could also be a sudden problem, which will not be a theoretical problem, but very practical one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u14	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as far as the first question is concerned, I basically explained why things are as they are. There were various suggestions. The senator made a suggestion about 10 years. Unfortunately, later, when we were discussing various proposals, the senator was temporarily absent, and therefore it was impossible to look into it. Other proposals were questioned from the point of view of the need to calculate this, etc., etc. I am the rapporteur, so my opinion is one thing, and the report is another. I can only say that during the committee meeting there was also such a wording that it would probably be important to consider that there would be a budgetary novel, that it would simply not be resolved in the framework of the measures that this budget has in some reserve. And there's also the second thing that you said about this issue, because if the schools are only 14 days away, it's gonna get through it, but if it's gonna be closed longer, it's gonna be two problems. The first problem is to extend this period for parents who are caring, and the second is some support for companies where at least in some cases there can be a lot of such absences and big problems. But it'll be here by now. it required decisive action by the government, and it required budgetary action. Then you'll probably have to give up the idea of a balanced budget, but that happens.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u16	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I will not speak on the merits, because I have spoken on many occasions in committee meetings, but I will speak on the working procedure. Don't you think the Marshal that after these perturbations, after these problems a few decades ago, the Senate's working mode was accelerated? Let us refer to it as a common urgency, rather than being used in the House, that we should rather withdraw from it? Because first of all, this House is not fit, and second of all, then it gives rise to very specific far-reaching problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u18	Well, we had this discussion, there was such a reservation that this is actually an urgent procedure, and the urgency procedure is reserved for the Council of Ministers, etc. Well, this case has been cleared up. Each body that has the right of legislative initiative itself regulates how the pace of work on its legislative initiative determines. The provision which restricts the Council of Ministers is introduced for a completely different reason, namely that the Council of Ministers does not force Parliament to act expressly for any law in which the Council of Ministers will like it. The Constitution therefore also lists laws for which this is not acceptable at all. As far as the Senate is concerned, we've never abused it. By the way, I would like to say that in the Seym this provision is very often used, at least in the Seym present and past. That's where the recipe says, for example. that the project must be delivered seven days before, but this deadline may even be shortened by the committee. Therefore, it was often done there. We didn't do it and we didn't have it in the regulations, but this novel, which has been introduced, however, Mr. Senator, clearly states that not in particularly justified cases, because it is a rubber term, only in cases of danger of life and human health can this term be shortened. So I have to say, I hope there is no more such a case that just happened, but it can happen, and then the Senate must be able to act more quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you about the reactions of our colleagues in Law and Justice when, at the meeting of the opposition committee... when Mrs. Magda Kochan tabled an amendment to raise to 15 years of age children whose parents would be entitled to an allowance in the event of school closing, and when Senator Beata Małecka tabled an amendment to be subject to a weekly doctor test, those who treat patients. What were the arguments of law and justice colleagues for not agreeing to such amendments?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u21	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u22	I'm not authorized to report on the arguments of the people who gave them, I can be mistaken, I can misinterpret them, I wouldn't want to do that. But in general, in both cases... I mean. Minister Kraski's opinion on the research was negative. He said they'd be done. Because there is indeed a change of strategy in this matter Screening tests, etc., etc., but it was negative for individual, private research, with its own money. Well, that's all I can say. He didn't justify it in particular, so there's nothing more I can say. And as far as Senator Kochan's motion is concerned, I have already mentioned this, so I do not want to repeat that these reactions were primarily related to the impossibility of calculating the effects and therefore the reluctance to make any decisions on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was a member of this committee meeting and, as I understand it, the Senators of the PiS asked me not to make a change in age. Am I getting this right? That's the first question. And has the government taken a negative stance on this matter? That's the second question. And the third case. I have been a Member for many terms, and I remember such draft laws in the previous term, which were adopted in the Sejm in the morning, in the afternoon in the Senate, and the President signed them in the evening. So I'm a little surprised by the hypocrisy of some people talking about how we are now in an extraordinary and quick way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u25	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u26	Well, yes, I understand that the senator has expressed his opinion, so I don't have to respond to her. And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski would like to ask you another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, since Senator Gawłowski asked, what was the motivation of the PiS senators not to make any further adjustments to this text? Because that should be explained to the public at the moment. Second question. What were the government's declarations? Because as we know, Minister Szrot spoke about this bill that the government is working on, especially Minister Emilewicz. Have there been any declarations about when the Sejm will eventually consider our project plus, I understand, the government project or any other projects? Has there been any announcement in this regard? Well, we work fast, but we don't really know when the Sejm will possibly consider this project, the one we are currently working on. Is there any information on this? Because I'm a little afraid that because of the dynamics of the situation, it can happen that, for example. It will be difficult to hold a session of the Sejm in public. Unfortunately, we cannot rule out such a situation. And then what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u30	Mr. Senator, anyone can predict what they think. I'd suggest you don't know. Personally, I think that only the state of war causes Parliament not to work and Parliament must work. Whether there's a pandemic or whatever. As far as precautions are concerned, please be kind and have to work. We're kind of like doctors. The doctor can't walk away from the patient either, say he can get it. So I wouldn't take that option. And when will that be? Of course, I can't say. In my opinion, if matters are so urgent, so expected, the government will present something quickly enough, it will direct it to the Sejm, and our bill will be there, and it will not be the first case that the Sejm examines 2 laws simultaneously and produces one of them, which then goes back to the Senate. So I don't see any special problems here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u31	Thank you very much. Do you still want to ask a question, Senator? Yeah, I'm here... Because I would very much ask you to limit the number of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u32	Yeah, except, Mr. Marshal, if there's an order God forbid, I absolutely don't think about it, but it's... Mr. Senator, you signed up for the discussion, so perhaps... But I'm asking you a question. Maybe this will keep the senator out of the discussion, so that... He's already signed up. Oh, did he sign up? Uh-huh. I'm asking a question right now. Because if the health authorities, for example. They will determine that there can be no assembly of more than 300 people, how do you imagine holding a plenary sitting of the Sejm in such a situation? We face such real problems. So the theory that the Sejm as in times... Yes, it is, in principle, but there may be a situation where there will be regulations that we have no control over. And it's not gonna be that we don't want to, it's just that we're gonna follow these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u33	Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: I do not see the possibility that the chief health inspector would impose his will on the Marshal of the Sejm and the Senate Marshal. That's not gonna happen. Only the Marshal of the Sejm may not convene a meeting of the Sejm and only the Marshal of the Senate may not convene a Senate meeting, for example. Some kind of clues. And it is constitutionally unimaginable for any other authority to impose such decisions on marshals. The Council of State...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u35	Mr. Senator, isn't it that there are authorities of the state that need to work, regardless of the situation? This concerns the Sejm, the Senate... They have a duty! ...and the government. I can't imagine the chief health inspector shutting down the government, not just the parliament. So... Well, that's it. I mean, it's a rhetorical question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u36	I understand the senator is asking me if I agree. Well, I agree, I've already said that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u37	Thank you very much. And Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u38	Mr. Senator, is it surprising to you that despite the outbreak of Cortipinus, if I recall correctly, the House of Representatives of the United States Congress is taking resolutions today, the Austrian Parliament is also working today... I have heard of these two cases, perhaps other parliaments are also working. Does that surprise you? The European Parliament... Does that surprise you? Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u39	Sir, there are things that surprise me, but these aren't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u40	Thank you very much. I'm closing this part because the questions were asked by all the senators who came forward. Thank you very much, senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Of course. Minister Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to speak very briefly so as not to prolong this discussion, and maybe in a slightly different way than before I have spoken about this presentation and I have already spoken many times. I'd like to bring this up in a historical way. We passed a week ago in this House, too, and I have the feeling that it was a lot, a lot back then, because so much has happened. A specialty associated with the risk of coronavirus. And both the senators and the Senate's Legislative Office paid attention to some legislative irregularities that were included in this bill, but, as you can see from today's work and the resulting mistakes, it was inevitable. At the time, when I was talking about cooperation on the revision of this law, I imagined that we would be working on these few changes, closely editorial and legislative, which the Senate Legislative Office proposed, always alert and always reliable when it comes to the analysis of draft laws. However, the proposal submitted here by the committees to the High House contains a number of very detailed, substantive changes to the project... or rather to the already adopted government law, specializations. These changes can be divided into several categories. First of all, these are changes that aim to mitigate, to varying degrees, the use of rigors specialized. This is about art. 11, which concerns orders and decisions issued to government administrations and to entrepreneurs. This also applies to provisions which include the application of the building law, or rather exempt from its application. This also applies to the provisions on education law and higher education law, namely the suspension of classes at universities. And here with all the emphasis, I would like to declare on behalf of the government that I am against this change. The government at the next stages of parliamentary work, in the Sejm, will strive to ensure that these changes in the specialty are not present. The next category of changes that the High House presents today are changes, or actually a package of changes to improve the situation of entrepreneurs, who for various reasons The employees, because of the decision of the public authorities, may suffer losses as a result of the prevention of the coronavirus. Here I can say this way. Some of these proposals deserve further analysis, consideration and the government will certainly carry out such analyses until this project has been submitted to the Sejm. However, the remaining part can be seen as a kind of wishful thinking, postulates dictated otherwise by good will, which will be very difficult to achieve in the face of other expenditures awaiting the country's budget in the event of an epidemic. However, as far as the part that concerns support for entrepreneurs is concerned, I think that the discussion here will be the most reliable, most important. We've already started this discussion. For example, an amendment is agreed with the government on the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, which boils down to the fact that there will be a general exclusion, but also public procurement rules will apply to those purchases which are linked to the eradication of epidemics. So, as far as this package is concerned, in terms of entrepreneurship, the discussion will, in my opinion, be the most important and lively discussion. In fact, we've already started it and we'll continue it in the Seym. Well, the last group of amendments are just those amendments that I mentioned at the beginning, i.e. minor legislative and editorial amendments. We have no objections here. Ladies and gentlemen, there were many points on which we discussed during the committee meeting. I would like to stress very clearly what I already said at the committee's meeting, that any demands on changing the age limit of children staying at home due to the suspension of school activities It is about the age of more than 8 years, and at this point it is analysed by the government. At this moment, all the information coming to me and to the Ministry of Development indicates that any proposal... a promise to increase this age will be very difficult to meet in view of the new budget expenditure resulting from the eradication of the epidemic. However, I would like to point out... It's the TV. I'll give you the source. Quiet. Come on. I didn't bother you, as I recall, and I think we're discussing substantively, so please, Senator, let me finish my speech. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen. And you, Minister, please, if you could... I'm on my way. I'm on my way. So for the moment, I have to say that I'm keeping records from this specialty that the Senate adopted a week ago. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude and conclude, I would just like to remind you that the discussion we had at the committee meeting 2 hours ago led to the fact that, together, in the presence of Mr Grodzki, it was decided not to submit any amendments to this draft. I would also like to thank the committee for this, because this is the accident of a certain agreement between senators from different political groups. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this decision will be maintained here. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Government, I declare that we will consider the solutions provided for in this proposal at the next stages of our work on the submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u42	Thank you very much. Minister, if you could just stay a moment, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute's query to the government representative present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary. I'm here, I'm here. Your name is Necessary? Since when? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, maybe I'll talk about the most important thing. Today we will adopt this law to the extent that we have had discussions without taking into account certain important elements. This would probably not be possible today, and I have therefore refrained from submitting an amendment. But the bill goes to the Sejm. I have a hot request here for the government. It's very late. What we're doing in the fight against the coronavirus seems to be chasing the coritos, while we should move forward, anticipate something, and act on the situation that will happen in two weeks. At the meeting of the Health Commission, the PiS Senators pointed out that our amendments, our changes restrict the tools used to fight the coronavirus, to the war that we are now fighting, and hinder this war. According to this logic... We have long known that three things are needed to wage war: money, money, and money. Therefore, I call on government representatives to make significant financial changes, budget transfers, increase budget deficits, as we call it, at a time when this law goes to the Sejm. For at least PLN 30 billion, so that the fight against the coronavirus takes on real shapes. Countries such as Germany and Italy spend as much as we spend on health protection in general; the entire budget of our NFZ is spent there only on the fight against the koravirus. So this $30 billion doesn't look like a very large amount. I think if we meet for a month, two, three, four months, and we sum up how much we spent, how much that fight cost us, that's the kind of money that's gonna be real. It is better to plan them, it is better to distribute them now rather than later, after the fact, already in the process to supplement it with some small amounts. So I have such a hot appeal. My second appeal is to act more decisively, more unambiguously. In Czestochowa, where I come from, the regional specialist hospital was designated as an infectious hospital of the first throw. It lasted about 24 hours, and after that day it was removed from the list, shifted, and another hospital was designated. My hospital was already preparing to take over the patients, and now it's supposed to work differently. If we make any decisions, let them be unambiguous, and we will all adapt to them. We really want to work together, we want to work, but not in chaos. Determined and unambiguous decisions, as well as thought-out decisions, will allow us either as hospital managers or simply as hospital workers to pass on all our potential to patients. As for the contested law, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and the case of research... I address mostly the government's majority, the government. I'm gonna turn around and read you the text I got from the chief of staff at my hospital today. Hi, Wojtek, I have a huge favor to ask you. Could you help me get a COVID-19 test, though? I'm fine, I'm still at home, but some of my colleagues at work are demanding it. Please. And then three folded hands. I called the location, tried to put pressure on this test. I have been informed that this cannot be done because the person has no symptoms and is not subject to this examination. I just got another text: "If anything changes, let me know, please, 'cause I don't know when to get back to work. If I had a negative result, I'd be back by now. Ladies and gentlemen, I know I'm setting an example from one hospital downstairs, but let's take care of these things as well. Let's not rock, let's just help these hospitals, those people who want to work in these hospitals. For those who do not run away from their duties, they simply want to do it the way it is to be done. We have to help them. We have to be prepared for this. And not in two weeks, not in three, not five, but at the next session of the Sejm... I'm calling for it. We are not going to make these amendments here today. That's why I don't bring them in because I know it won't do any good. But there's a few more days. Within these few days, you will certainly be making calculations and they will certainly indicate that action needs to be stepped up. Finally, however, I would like to make one amendment on behalf of myself and the group of senators, because it cannot be done without this change. You're not going to vote... But I strongly urge you, however, to accept this amendment. Of course, it concerns what was said here. It's short: in art. 1 point 5, in Article. 4 in paragraph 2. 1 the words "21 days' shall be replaced by the words "time of closure of the establishment'. You know what I mean? In order to ensure that people who receive benefits, their parents are able to receive them throughout the period of closure of the educational establishment. And the second part of that amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 5 of Article 1 4 in paragraph 2. 1 the following second sentence is added: The supplementary welfare allowance shall also be payable to the insured person who is exempt from working because of the need to take personal care of the child aged up to the age of 15. Mr. Senator said it'd be 10 years, someone said 12... We believe that time, which includes primary school, can be fully extended, which is until the age of 15... I would also like to say that order action needs to be stepped up. I know schools are so negative... I mean, students who don't go to schools meet in different places, act irresponsible. And here's a request to the government to check it out, monitor it, and act against it. I know the schools are trying to discipline the students themselves, but how are they supposed to do that if the students don't go to school right now. Thank you very much. I've already submitted an amendment to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u44	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to begin by thanking the ministers for the constructive discussion that we had at the joint committee meeting, and I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that we have a dynamic situation, we have a situation that is essentially incomparable to what we know, what we remember. And no matter how old we are, That's what we've experienced. And I want us to understand that we are entering a situation that may be unpredictable. I'm pointing out that it's okay. I hope it will not be, but it can be unpredictable, and any social, cultural, health, political, family effects, etc. It's hard for us to imagine right now. That's why I think that creating a certain pressure on the government right now, saying that the ideas that are contained in this project are like a metro pattern... In my opinion, they are inadequate to the situation and even the government at the moment does not know what will be the situation on Tuesday, when, as Minister Szrot said, a draft law of Minister Emilewicz is to be expected. That is why I would like to appeal to the majority of the Parliament from this point of view to refrain from submitting new amendments to the text of the project, but not because they are not justified or... The idea is to give the government that will implement it and the Sejm, where the government has a majority, to develop a model of these solutions, which will be optimal from the point of view of the state budget, optimal from the point of view of the state's capabilities. Why am I addressing such an appeal? High Izbo, we are now entering, as I mentioned, an unpredictable phase. I believe that different scenarios must be taken into account, including those that are more painful for society and the state as a whole. I hope that they will not be implemented. I would like to stress: I hope this will not happen. Perhaps these more optimistic scenarios will work out, perhaps in two weeks' time these administrative actions that have already been taken will be called back to normal in our social life. I hope so, but this, High Izbo, we don't know. That's what my appeal is about. We already know... Well, we don't really have a budget bill passed, she's still in the Sejm, although she's about to pass the deadline. It seems that the Sejm is to deal with this at its meeting on 25 March, but there are still two weeks until then. What happens then? God knows what happens then. I would like to remind you that this budget, as announced by Minister Emilewicz, is a kind of historical budget, because unfortunately the scale of economic growth will not be as expected at the time of the creation of the budget law. We all know that already. And what does that mean for the budget? This means a reduction in budgetary revenue on the part of government and public administration, which will, of course, require appropriate action. So that my appeal, High Izbo, is that in the atmosphere of constructive discussion, we seek agreement, precisely in the spirit of responsibility for the state, for the citizens, regardless of our political views, so that we understand the seriousness of the situation, it is simply very important And to set a good example for citizens, showing how a responsible parliament behaves in such a situation. We're gonna pass that test for now. May we also pass it in the coming days and weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Well, I'm sorry to say I wasn't supposed to speak, but unfortunately the situation is dynamic. From what I have learned, it appears that the state, contrary to what we have established on a principle of a trans-political compromise at the committee meeting, has again tabled two amendments to this law, which have rejected the joint committees. And the committees rejected them, also following the voice of Marshal Grodzki, present at this meeting, also agreeing to what government representatives said, both Minister Szrot and Minister Kraska. These are precisely those amendments which expose the state budget to the greatest burden, difficult at this point to calculate, difficult to estimate. Of course, we have not heard these calculations from the applicant country. Well, I have to say that we're just sorry, all the more so that yesterday we were dealing with a very dense atmosphere in the Senate, caused both by this whole epidemiological threat situation and by this regulatory add-on that was not consulted at all with us. In a way, using the extraordinary situation of the coronavirus, you put us in front of the fact that we did, and that's why we broke the quorum. This morning we sat at the table, to discuss, at the meeting of the Seniors Convention, a strategy was drawn up for further proceedings. We cooled our emotions, we met at the committee meeting, we agreed to change the rules of procedure for this one particular matter, on a gentleman's basis, and now you are once again pushing these amendments that have not been accepted before. Well, that's not how you do it. This shows, however, that the Senate X's term of office is a constant source of political and legal confusion, and that these great words about agreement, about dialogue, about consideration are nothing but empty speech. Once again, we regret that. And now we, the Senators of Law and Justice, are once again actually at the starting point. I mean, what are we supposed to do with this bill? We still have to think about it. There's a committee meeting. However, once again, I appeal to the senators of the majority to keep these arrangements, these commitments from literally a few hours ago. And here is what I've been saying since yesterday, that whoever is in urgent combat is killed by the urgency procedure, the Senators. The Senate is not a place to work urgently, the Senate is not a place to race legislative ideas with the government and with the Sejm. However, we here should be guided by caution, distance ourselves from a certain political run, we should trust the government. The government is up to its task, and it is very good in this extremely crisis and unprecedented situation. So once again I appeal to the entire Senate of the Republic for consideration, for peace, for responsible action and for what you yourself have been appealing to us for many days, for consent over political divisions and for honesty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u48	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In fact, we've only returned to one amendment. The amendment was made very much, the citizens' club had these amendments dozens. Indeed, we have adopted those conditions which were notified by the Law and Justice Club in order to reach consensus. At the meeting of the club, this consensus was adopted with one exception. I'll justify it right away. It seems that, after all the necessary calculations have been made, this amendment can be corrected as far as the government's financial capacity is concerned. We didn't change the 80% either. to maintain the status quo that is currently in place. And for what period, until which year, the Seym can really be corrected, having precise calculations of the government in this matter. We show directionally something that was also signed by the Senators of Law and Justice, including the senator who left us, Mr Jackowski, who said: till he was ten years old. Maybe ten, maybe twelve, maybe 21 days, maybe 20. We do not settle this today, we only ask that, for the sake of the matter, we maintain this compromise that we have prepared, with one corrected exception. I want to stress that the entire civil club in war cases, fighting the coronavirus, is with the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Wojciech Nebula, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Jolanta Hibner, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Danuta Jazłowocka. That's the one amendment? That's the one amendment. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative wish to comment on the proposal submitted? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again very briefly and once again in the historical context. 2 days of treble Mr Kwiatkowski assured us that we have 2 weeks to use for the analysis of this project, yesterday evening we learned that the project is on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. A few hours ago, Marshal Grodzki, present at the meeting of the Joint Committee, appeals to all senators, not only the Senators of Law and Justice, but also the Senators of the Civic Coalition, to withdraw all the amendments in the name of the compromise reached at the meeting of the Seniors Convention. And these amendments have been withdrawn in full understanding of this compromise. These amendments have now been tabled again... One... This amendment has been tabled again. I do not want to repeat what I said about this amendment earlier, but it is very fundamental and its introduction should be preceded by very detailed financial analyses, and these analyses are not available. Neither do we, and we cannot support it with a clear conscience. I understand all the doubts that the Senators of Law and Justice may have in this case. If I were a senator, I would have a huge dilemma, what to do in this situation, when so many commitments that would lead to political compromise, to fight this threat together, which Poles are facing... Poles expect all political forces to cooperate. I do not understand the attitude of the senators reporting this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u52	Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I am proposing that the Senate set a time limit for the joint committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. Please read the message. And I'm managing an hour's break by the hour... Shorter. Half an hour. 45 minutes off, until 4:30 p.m. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u53	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Health on the consideration of the requests submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them will be held today in room 217 15 minutes after the adjournment. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 47 to 16 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u54	I'm reopening the session. I kindly ask the senators to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move into the mood of voting, I would like to make a few comments. I would like to inform you that yesterday the Seniors Convention gave an opinion on the revision of the agenda of the Senate meetings in April this year. The next Senate meeting is scheduled for 22rd and 23rd April, not, as you were informed earlier, 15th and 16th April, which is immediately after Christmas. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. I'd like to say that if we finish this gloriously today's sitting... In agreement with Minister Szumowski, I would like to convey to you, from a medical point of view, a request from the point of view of combating the coronavirus, an appeal to limit socio-political activity as far as possible. Of course, none of us have symptoms of illness, but because of our functions we encounter a huge number of people, whether outside, whether in their districts or in Warsaw or even here. Therefore, from the point of view of the fight against the coronavirus, it would be advisable to limit its socio-political activity in general for a week, one and a half. And because... if there's no unscheduled sitting, it's absolutely possible. I would like to inform you that I have given the Minister of the Temple an order that, in agreement with the Head of the Sejm's Office, they will draw up regulations which will limit the functioning of the Senate and the Sejm Office to the minimum necessary, using teleworking, wherever possible, using shift work. And so next week or in the next two weeks, I hope not any longer. It's going to go on. So that I'm allergic to this, too. Also in agreement with Minister Szumowski, I would like you in your districts In particular, I am speaking here to colleagues of doctors on both sides of the program, and they have given their highest appreciation to those who, as medical staff, are on the front line of the fight against the koravirus and are fighting this disease. Because in addition to the infection itself, as you know, the seropositive people with the coronavirus will also require surgery, delivery, procedures, coronarography, anything modern medicine can bring. And medical personnel in severe conditions, sometimes in shortcomings, are very self-defense about it. And he deserves absolute recognition. I would also like to say that work is being done to increase the number of available tests as soon as possible, especially for medical personnel who are on the front line. Although it must be realized that this cannot be done immediately after contact with the sick, because there is a time for development of viraemia and the test taken immediately often does not produce an effect after 24 or 48 hours. But the ministry's work is also moving towards private diagnostic resources, which may be triggered for healthy people who want to test their state of seronegativeness or seropositiveity. This work will take place on the basis of working arrangements. Once again, I would like to stress that the entire health care staff, which is on the front line of the fight against the coronavirus, should be greatly appreciated. I think you'll agree with me if, on behalf of the Senate from this tribune, I express such recognition. [[Applause]] We therefore begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 85. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. I'll read the draft resolution. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, you are dismissed by Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka from the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor from the Legislative Commission; Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Kazimierz Wiatra from the Infrastructure Committee. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, you are elected by Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators; Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska to the Legislative Commission. I ask the High Senate to accept these changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u56	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] It doesn't work because it's... He's here. Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 82 were in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. The meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 71 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present the report of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance in print No 71 Z. The Commissions at its meeting on 13 March 2020 considered the proposals made during the debate on 12 March 2020 on the Law amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices and presented a proposal to the High Senate to reject the Act. I would like to inform you that there has also been a request for the adoption of a law without amendments. It was a minority request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the minorities of the joint committees, I recommend the High House to accept our proposal. As some of you already want to deal with the problem of Coronavirus in their electoral districts, I am refraining from further comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u60	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to inform you that the conclusions were made by Senators Beata Małecka-Libera, Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Kazimierz Kleina, Janusz Pęcherz, Jan Filip Libicki and Wojciech Konieczny during the discussion. In addition, Senator Paweł Arndt was the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Beata Małecka-Libera's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 45 votes against, 38 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on geodetic and cartographic law and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 68 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, as Senator, I would like to inform you that the 18 amendments that were tabled during the debate 1 were supported and adopted by the committee and the others did not receive a majority. At the same time, as an applicant for amendments, I would like to inform your marshal that I withdraw Amendments 2, 4, 6, 7... Wait a minute. Slow down. Again? You're welcome. Amendments 2, 4, 6, 7 and 12. Thank you very much... And which one was accepted? Amendment 15, proposed by the Legislative Bureau, was accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u62	Does Senator Arthur Dunin still want to speak as Senator of the applicant? No. Thank you very much. Are there any possible reports from the senators? There isn't. Does anybody want to uphold the withdrawn applications? What conclusions? Corrections, I'm sorry. I don't see any calls. So we proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1 and 10 should be voted on together. Amendments 1 and 10 modify the definition of the map for design and geodetic inventory of post-executive construction works. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 46 votes against, 35 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2 reminds me, it's withdrawn. Amendment 3 amends the provision governing the reporting of geodetic works or cartographic works by their contractor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 47 for, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 4 is withdrawn. Amendment 5 deletes the provision requiring the geodetic and cartographic service authority to which the results of the reported geodetic work have been transmitted to verify their consistency with the databases provided by that authority. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 47 for, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 6 is withdrawn. Amendment 7 is withdrawn. Amendment 8 adds to the Act a provision on the basis of which, at the request of the contractor, the geodetic and cartographic services authority will inform it of the outcome of the verification of works in a manner other than by means of electronic communication generally accepted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 46 votes 36 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 9 amends the provision laying down rules for informing the contractor of the geological work on the results of the verification of the work. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 47 for, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 11 modifies the rules for the preparation of geodetic documentation by an official clause. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 46 votes 36 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 12 is withdrawn. Amendment 13 reduces the adjustment rate of fees for the provision of State resources for geodetic and cartographic resources. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 46 votes 36 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 14 amends the unit of account of the national geodetic database of the land arms network from hectares per kilometre. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 46 votes against, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 15 removes the error of adding one of the last amendments to the building law of the editorial unit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 78 for, 4 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 16 restores to building law the provision authorising the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing to define by regulation the types and scope of geodetic and cartographic studies and geodetic activities in force in construction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 46 votes against, 36 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 17 repeals the provision requiring the designer to submit a project for the development of a plot or site drawn up on the current map for design purposes or a copy thereof certified for compliance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 46 votes against, 36 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 18 reduces the flat-rate fees for the provision of State resources for geodetic and cartographic resources. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 47 for, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 82 in favour, no one voted against, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on geodetic and cartographic law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they ask for the rejection of the bill; Senate printing No 67 A. A minority of committees have submitted a proposal to adopt this law without amendments. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the joint committees to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 47 for, 36 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the local government. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the matter was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution, contained in print No 82 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the local government. Give me the name of what he was against because people think it's me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No. And yet... We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft law, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 88 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee meeting was subject to a proposal for two amendments on one subject. Both of these amendments were adopted by a majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, Senator Wojciech Nebula, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Pleno Titulo, Senators Bogdan Zdrojewski, Bogdan Klich, Joanna Sekuła, Jolanta Hibner, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Magdalena Kochan, Beata Małecka, Danuta Jazłowiecka presented their legislative proposals. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about Amendment 1. According to the current form of the Act, the period for collecting the supplementary welfare allowance may not be longer than 21 days. This period is absolutely defined. According to this amendment it could not be longer than the period of closure of the facility, but this mouth. 1 changed applies not only to institutions, but also to crèches, children's clubs, kindergartens, schools. There is no legal act to be drawn from, and certainly not from the law of education, the conclusion that it is also a nursery, a school and a kindergarten. Please tell me, then, how long will the supplementary allowance be paid by parents who have children in daycare, children's clubs, kindergartens or schools. These are outposts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u67	I'll answer from the spot, if you don't mind. Of course, there was a question to the Legislative Bureau, to the legislators. They explained that the word "place"... It's a school of education, which means... ...relates to all the institutions mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u68	Thank you very much. Are you Senator Knee... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about Amendment Two. Maybe you've already enriched your knowledge... So far, at all stages of the process, the state has not been able to answer the simple, obvious question: what are the financial implications for the budget of the amendment? Two billion... [[Joy in the Chamber]] But the opposition should know...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u70	No, ladies and gentlemen, please... This is a serious question and a serious answer must be answered. At the moment, the government is not at all able to answer the question of the financial implications of the various actions it is taking. It's clear. Some people just have to take action. And in the opinion of the applicants, I understand that such action must be taken. The question of calculating the effects... It's gonna happen later. Perhaps the Polish state will not be able to afford to go that far, we will see. But I want to remind you And at the committee meeting it fell, and I said it as rapporteur here from the Senate stand that a balanced budget is probably history and we will have to accept some deficit this year. What's that? We'll see about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u71	Thank you very much. No further questions. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on, in the order of the text, in print No 88 X and then in the adoption of the draft, in print No 88 S-revised, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 makes an additional welfare allowance for a period of no longer than the period of closure of the educational establishment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 47 for, 35 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 2 makes it possible for an additional welfare allowance to be granted when taking care of a child under the age of 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 Senators voted, 46 votes against, 35 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 82 senators, 47 votes against, 34 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the seventh Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Senator Jan Filip Libicki will speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, which will consist of 3 segments, but all this applies to people with disabilities in the context of the fight against the coronavirus. The first question is the following. I was approached by Dr Monika Zima-Parijasewska, President of the General Board of the Polish Association for People with Intellectual Disability, and she sent me her letter, which she sent to the Prime Minister. In this letter he directs 3 requests. First of all, he asks for a change in the decision of the Minister of National Education to suspend teaching activities in kindergartens, schools, educational establishments of 11 March 2020 and urgent suspension of classes also in special facilities for children and young people with intellectual disabilities and associated disabilities. It is about rehabilitation and educational and educational centers, psychological and pedagogical clinics, etc. As I understand it, the amendment of Senator Elephant, which was included in our project to the Sejm, is exhausting. The second issue concerns action on the functioning of non-educational facilities for children and young people, adults and people with intellectual disabilities, for example. Early intervention centers, occupational therapy workshops, environmental self-help homes. The third point concerns changes in the so-called "changes'. a specialty in the case of Coronavirus, which will also make parents of children over the age of eight with disabilities entitled to supplementary welfare benefits. I would also like to forward to the secretariat the text of this letter, which Mrs Zima-Parijasewska addressed to the Prime Minister as President of this association. The second issue is also about this case, because I have been approached by the leaders... Mr. Senator, I'd like to draw your attention... It's been five minutes? ...that the statement must not concern the subject of the current sitting. Oh, I see. Okay, well, then I'd like to... But one element of this statement certainly does not concern the subject of this sitting, although perhaps to some extent yes, but if I exceed the rules of procedure, I am counting on the courtesy of your marshal. Well, here's the thing. In all these media programs that appear, TV and radio broadcasts... The environment of the Polish Deaf Union indicates that they are not translated into sign language, as well as for the deaf, the issues of how these people can and should behave in a crisis. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister. And the third question. I understand that this is a matter for this sitting. But let me read this passage, and if you qualify, it depends on your Marshal's decision. I'll quote the letter I received. Dear Mr. Senator! On behalf of the carers of adults, people with disabilities and seniors, please include in the amendments the possibility of receiving care and supplementary allowance during the closing of the daily centers, workshops of occupational therapy. There is no legal tool that gives us the opportunity to take care of our seniors and disabled people while closing the facilities they usually stay in. I'm asking you to intervene. I am aware that the subject matter of my statement may have violated the regulations, but I believe the situation is extraordinarily exordinary, and I am counting on the understanding of your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Klein will speak. And I'm gonna leave this text here with this letter. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers. Dear Prime Minister, The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation decided to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk on 1 April 2020. From this point on, this management of over 170 km of the Polish coast will be absorbed by the maritime offices in Gdynia and Szczecin after 64 years of operation. In relation to many voices of opposition by local governments, among others. President of the City of Słupska, Mayor of Ustka and many, many other local governments, employees, trade unions, parliamentarians, including my numerous interventions, I would like to point out once again the unfoundedness of this decision. I believe that all the previous voices and opinions of specialists have been ignored and are unfortunately ignored. I remind you that the decision to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk was made against the previous position of the government itself, the position of Prime Minister and politicians of the governing party. You have all ensured for many years that cities such as Słupsk will be strengthened in such a way that people do not have to leave them in larger agglomerations or leave our country at all. You assured me that cities such as Słupsk will be strengthened administratively, not as important from other administrations as the Maritime Office in Slupsk. In addition, please note the letter, which in November 2019 Minister Paweł Szrot, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, addressed to Ms Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, making his negative comments on the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk. None of these comments were subsequently taken into account by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Shipping. None of the comments prepared by the Prime Minister's firm was taken into account by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Shipping. I say this twice to stress the importance of these words, and at the same time that the Minister, ministers, does not count on the Prime Minister's position. The author, i.e. Minister Paweł Szrot, rightly referred in his letter to the Supreme Audit Chamber, which pointed out irregularities in the functioning of the Maritime Office in Słupsk, but also maritime offices in Gdynia and Szczecin. But Minister Szrot draws attention in his work... These comments of the Supreme Audit Chamber were not However, it is important enough that they can decide what the shape of maritime administration in Poland will be in the future. And Minister Szrot says: it is not appropriate to draw conclusions of a management nature from this check, and this does not give a simple basis for structural changes; the solution of dividing and including an office where irregularities resulting from the many-year omissions to the other two entities, whose work was also not, according to NIK's assessment, free of confusion, may cause much greater difficulties in carrying out statutory tasks both in the part concerning the Maritime Office in Słupsk and in the areas of the Maritime Office of Szczecin and Gdynia. The above letter places great emphasis, rightly so, on personal matters, pointing out that the workers admitted from the Maritime Office in Słupsk, due to their considerable distance from the premises of Gdynia and Szczecin for objective reasons, will not be able to continue their employment. Despite such an opinion prepared by the Prime Minister's office, the Minister responsible for maritime affairs continues the decision to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk and prepares the process of its liquidation on 1 April this year. But this liquidation is to be done, among other things. on the fact that from 1 April there will no longer be a separate Maritime Office in Słupsk, but there will be 2 delegations of the Maritime Office in Szczecin and the Maritime Office in Gdynia, so this will deepen the administrative chaos in the area of the economy and maritime administration. Prime Minister, please answer the following additional questions and doubts. If the Maritime Office in Słupsk is wound up, will any of the people currently working there, highly qualified workers lose their jobs? What was the basis for the decision to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk? And has the Ministry carried out thorough analyses, answering the question of how this decision will affect the region's economic development? If yes, please provide a detailed report on these analyses. What is dictated by the recent employment at the Gdynia Maritime Office as Deputy Director of Maritime Inspection of Mr Maciej Jeleniewski, a person who was dismissed from the position of Deputy Director of Maritime Inspection last November? It was the person responsible for the area which was subject to the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Mr. Senator, it's been seven minutes. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. It's very short. What was the consultation with trade unions, representatives of social, local and territorial organisations? Therefore, Prime Minister, I am asking you to suspend the decision to liquidate this maritime office. And if it is impossible to stop this decision, I would like to ask you to postpone the entry into force of this decision until the end of this year, so as to actually submit a deeper, in-depth analysis of the functioning of the entire maritime administration in Poland, because this decision, which you are trying to introduce at the moment, in practice leads to greater chaos in the maritime administration and, moreover, for many years prevents any discussion of what should be done by the maritime administration in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Benjamin Godyla will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Rural Development and Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski, and to the President of KRUS, Aleksandra Stanisławy Hadzik. This statement is dictated by a visit made to me by KRUS employees from Olesna. There are 13 people working in the office in Olesno, and I was visited by a total of 9 ladies. These visits were motivated by very low wages. Ladies who work at KRUS for 10 and 30 years earn 2 thousand and 650 PLN gross a month. This is only 50 PLN more than the lowest national. I'd like to remind you they're clerks. The statement is accompanied by annexes, including a letter with which these ladies have referred to me. I may read only two sentences so that I do not quote the whole of this magazine:!We do not want big increases, we only want enough to live a decent life. We're very determined. Our wages due to the constant rise in prices of both goods and services are not sufficient to meet basic needs. Plus, I'm adding paybars, which the ladies have agreed to. Of course, the GDPR is respected. There are no names. Maybe I'll just make that statement. Dear Minister, Madam President! As you know, the issue of the level of remuneration of public workers is of paramount importance. A 10% increase in wages planned in the 2020 budget to a large extent, it has been allocated to raise wages to the minimum wage level. Over 1 000 people employed in KRUS have received an increase in wages to the minimum wage from 1 January 2020. A whole bunch of employees in the positions of inspectors and specialists earn 2,000 650 PLN gross. The 2020 budget plans for 4 million less expenditure on the incentive fund for KRUS staff, while in December and January the Ministry staff received about 30 million prizes and bonuses. I address the Minister and the President. Please provide information on the level of salaries of KRUS employees in relation to the level of salaries of ZUS employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Practically for two years we have heard often the communications of Prime Minister Morawiecki and the ministers responsible for energy. And I'm sending my statement to the Prime Minister. That the increase in energy prices will not be drastic and that Poles will not feel this increase. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how this is possible... And I ask this on the basis of the invoices of the entrepreneurs that I saw and which were addressed to them. Let me give you an example of one of them. The invoice for December covered the amount of PLN 3 000, and the invoice for January, a month later, already PLN 9 thousand. It was the price for not exactly the same, but similar energy consumption. How is it possible that declarations made so grossly miss the truth? Is that because of the fact that In this particular case, the energy group Energa has not been able to maintain its position for several years, and recently, Mrs Golińska's brother, the chairman of the Management Board? Perhaps it is the lack of competence and knowledge about the management of the company that causes such a drastic rise in energy prices, as much as 300%. Guys, nepotism, lack of knowledge influence the fact that citizens, Poles, must pay such large energy invoices. Why did entrepreneurs not know about this until March, they were not informed in December that such a drastic increase in energy prices would affect them? What kind of action is the Prime Minister going to take to really relieve Polish entrepreneurs in this government policy that we are dealing with today in the energy part?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-13-senat-07-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. There aren't any messages either. The seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] And merry Christmas if we don't see each other before. [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 36]]
