ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the 12th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Viktor Durlak to be the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers in the Senate meeting room will be led by Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, and in room 217 the list of speakers will be led by Senator Viktor Durlak. Dear Senators, in view of the state of the epidemic, which is still in force, after obtaining the approval of the Seniors Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a formula, which is that the deliberations will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators, meeting in the plenary room and in room 217, please join the questions and speak in the discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, and in room 217, Senator Viktor Durlak. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. This is extremely important, we remind you of it many times, but as it turns out, it is necessary. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. This applies only to those taking part in the meeting remotely. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature and the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote, which merely aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that starting a vote in the Webex system will result in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK," and then "I remind you of this necessity." Press the pass button 2 times after the vote: first in the voting window, then in response to confirmation that we are voting. Please take part in the vote. Please, there's the apparatus on, our room... It's on, it's on, only the card needs to be inserted, Mr. Senator. We'll wait a second. Please state the results of the vote. 92 Senators voted and we accept that so many are taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 1]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 12th meeting on 2 June 2020, adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Act on the Special Principles of the Organisation of the General Elections for the President of the Republic of Poland, which were ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the ninth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 10th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would like to inform you that work is underway on the preparation of a report on the Act on the Title: Act on interest subsidies for bank loans granted to provide liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19; print No 142. Once a report has been drawn up, the Senate order will be supplemented by this point. There was a point in the draft order provided to you: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. As the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators has not drawn up a proposal on this matter, this item is not included in the draft agenda. This does not apply to the appointment of the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee. I propose that items 1 to 9 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration: the Law on EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery and consider it as point one. This was the seventh item of the draft agenda. The change is due to the Ministry's request for this matter. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Solidarity Supplement Act granted in order to counter the negative effects of OVID-19 and consider it as the second item of the agenda; and the following point: the election of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the consideration of it as the last item of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate has approved the agenda of the 12th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office. At the same time, I would like to inform you that tomorrow at 9 a.m., we will begin our deliberations by considering the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the importance of European education. The vote will take place immediately after its consideration. Tomorrow we will also consider a point on the Law amending the Law on Chemicals and their mixtures and some other laws and a point on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. This is also due to the request of the Ministry of Health regarding the time of consideration of the point. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. An additional announcement for the senators. The senator, who has confirmed his presence at the sitting by authenticating himself in the electronic means of communication used, shall participate in the Senate meeting remotely until the meeting is concluded on a given day. This is important from the point of view of the procedures adopted. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on European Union type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The text of the act is contained in print No 135 and the report of the committee In print No 135 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Under the authority of the Infrastructure Committee, I present a report on the committee meeting which took place today on the European Union type-approval system law and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. This is senate print number 135. The law in its name contains very many technical phrases, but it concerns the protection of the environment and above all air protection. It is about exhaust emissions from internal combustion engines, of course, which are installed in non-road machinery. There are cars on public roads, and here we are dealing with machines that do not necessarily move at all. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this law is a consequence of the European Union's findings of 14 September 2016 on requirements for emission limits for gaseous and particulate pollutants and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. All Member States have been required to appoint or designate approval authorities and market surveillance authorities and to provide in national law a basis for the establishment of a technical service, together with procedures for possible limitation, suspension or cancellation. In short, this requirement is fulfilled by this law. This is a government submission. The national authority granting the approval will be the Director of Transport Technical Supervision who will issue, withdraw, I don't know, dismiss the approval certificate. The environmental inspection body and the President of the Higher Mining Authority as well as the National Tax Administration bodies will be authorised to supervise. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Act will result in the imposition of the applicable penalty. The discussion at the committee meeting was not rich. We have accepted with understanding the provisions of this law. Only two legislative amendments were introduced, which the government welcomed. I therefore request the High House to adopt the law, the title of which I have presented, together with these 2 amendments. The vote was successful, the committee unanimously supported this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u3	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jackowski here, I see.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have this question from the users and owners of this kind of equipment. Because I understand that this applies to, for example. construction machinery... Yes. ...lifts, parts of agricultural equipment, construction equipment, some excavators... Yes. All the engines that excrete the fumes. Yes, sir. I understand it doesn't apply to airplanes and that kind of flying equipment... Drones... Not applicable. My question is: what does this mean for users of this equipment, i.e. entrepreneurs who use this equipment? Because I understand that these standards are going to be de facto elevated. So what about the equipment that is already being used by users of this type of mobile machinery not moving along the way? And were the financial consequences of all this discussed during the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u5	I'm afraid I have to worry you. There was no question of what users of already existing equipment that had been approved or what penalties would be imposed. However, it must be borne in mind that it will certainly be possible to test these engines again. I don't know that, so please ask the government side as submitting these regulations. Did...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u6	Question or new question? Because there's a line, so... Question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u7	Thank you very much. But as a result, the senator used the wording of the new approval. If the equipment has already been approved, and as we know, this approval is an expense, it seems, in the order of PLN 5,000... Yeah, at first... So this equipment... Well, I don't know about the prices of this equipment, but this is a significant amount for any entrepreneur or owner of this equipment. In this case, will it have to apply for re-approval in connection with these new regulations, or will the old type-approval be in operation, and on this basis will it be able to legally use such equipment?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u8	Because it wasn't mentioned, it's hard for me to answer. I can only express my opinion, tell you how I understand it. If everything's okay... There's a market surveillance authority. If he finds that the emissions are too high, he can apply the penalty. So it should be in the interest of the user to see how this engine works. That's all I can answer. However, these matters were not mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I think the applicant's representative will probably be able to answer that question. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski asks the question from room 217. I volunteered, but I'm already for debate, not questions. Thank you so much for letting me know. Did Senator Ambrozik also submit to the debate or questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u10	I would just like to ask, Mr. Marshal, how many such approvals are granted annually. Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? And I would like to ask for sanctions for the lack of such approvals, including not only the user, but also the manufacturer or importer of such machines.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u11	No, about such specific issues... There was no such detailed discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u12	Thank you very much. No further questions... There's a call. The senator, too? Or to a government representative?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u13	To the rapporteur. Senator, I have a question for you. Here it is stated that this applies to the emission limit values for gaseous and particulate pollutants and type-approval requirements for manual combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. What are, you might say, the differences between these pollutants? What is the value of the differences between these engines of machinery moving on the road and those not moving on the road? Because I understand that there are manufacturers of different engines, and these engines... Well, technology is so advanced that reducing these dust values... The amount of dust and impurities is decreasing. What is the higher content of particulate matter and impurities in engines of non-road vehicles that we allow? It was about that. Wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u14	It wasn't mentioned, and I'm not a specialist in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u15	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. To present the government's position... Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, Minister Rafał Weber. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You can speak from the place, you can speak from the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u16	Following the procedures you spoke of at the beginning, I will stay where I am. I thank the Marshal and the High House for moving this item to the beginning of today's proceedings. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will now try to answer the questions that have been asked by the Senator of the rapporteur. As far as the approvals already issued on the Polish market are concerned, I will say that they will of course be valid, they will remain valid, the owner of such a vehicle will not have to do any work in order to be able to use the equipment in which such engines operate. The second question, the question of Senator Ambrozik, is the number of approvals issued within one year by the previous body, which was indicated in 2004, and this body was, at the same time, until this law enters into force, is the Institute of Automobile Transport. We are talking about a dozen in 16 years, from 2004 to 2020, approval certificates for engines that are used in non-road mobile machinery. So that the scale of it isn't too big. Indeed, this regulation affects the protection of the environment, but precisely because the scale of this is not too large, it is not to be expected any sudden and radical environmental changes on the plus. However, the main issuer of various types of exhaust gases are those vehicles that move on our roads Passenger vehicles, up to 3.5 tonnes, and heavy vehicles, above 3.5 tonnes. In Poland there are 17 million registered vehicles, we estimate that another 3 million are not registered. So that this is a comparison of the area that we include in this law, to that area that is regulated by other European acts and other acts as regards the issue of approval for engines in our country, in our homeland. As I said, if it hadn't been for this EU regulation, the approval authority would still have been the Auto Transport Institute. We are using the regulation quoted by the rapporteur Senator to change the approval authority and hand it over to the Director of Transport Technical Supervision, because the TDT is already in charge of issuing such certificates in the case of engines mounted in vehicles on the road. The staff at TDT is specialised, the staff is prepared for this task, the institution itself, the body itself will carry out these new tasks, including from the organizational side. We are convinced that they will be able to handle this subject without any problems. Now I would like to thank the employees of the Auto Transport Institute for the work they have done in this area for the last 16 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. I understand most of this equipment is diesel engines. Does the Ministry have any statistics on this? That's one thing. And the second question is: do environmental standards for this type of equipment differ from those for cars and transport in general? Are these standards different, or are they identical? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u19	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u20	There are various propulsion sources, in some propulsion devices we use oil, i.e. diesel engines, but there are also such devices, e.g. saws with petrol in them. So that here there are various methods, sources of propulsion engines. We don't have such a precise, precise basis to identify the distinction between drive sources in all these devices. And the second question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u21	Thank you very much. The question is from the room... Mr. Marshal, my second question was whether the emission standards for this equipment were the same as for cars. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u22	Others are for vehicles that move on the roads, and others are for vehicles that do not move on the roads. This depends on the reference power of the individual engines in the NRE sub-category. So that this is very detailed, very precise information, included also in this regulation, which we are now implementing into Polish law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u23	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Stanisław Lamczyk a question from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u24	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Minister. I am referring to the transitional period. Do you think this transition period is sufficient? Isn't it too short? That's one thing. And the second question is, are the penalties... I ask because the issue of restrictions is very important, it is important to follow all these rules, so that controlling is very important. But aren't these punishments, in your opinion, too high? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u25	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u26	The period of 12 months for the implementation of this law seems correct to us. This is a whole year to adapt to these provisions so that producers comply with these provisions, but also to ensure that the new approval authority and the new supervisory authorities can adapt organisationally to the new regulations. I don't think there's any problem here. As for the amount of the penalty, since we are talking about such an important topic of environmental protection, as we are talking about it, we insist, we call for all, regardless of party colors, and we take action to clear our air from all harmful substances, the penalties for non-compliance with these rules must be severe. I think political agreement on this matter should also be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u27	Thank you very much. Now let me ask you a question. Minister, you mentioned, I don't know if I overheard that 3 million of these devices are not registered anywhere, i.e. they smoke, smoke, smoke, and we don't really know how much, from where, for what and for what. How are you going to deal with this problem? There's full agreement that we all care about the clean air, but I'll be honest with you, that number, that 3 million scared me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u28	I talked about statistics that relate to vehicles on the road, not those that are covered by this law, only vehicles and light ones, up to 3.5 tonnes, and those above 3.5 tonnes. Official statistics say that in Poland there are about 17 million registered vehicles, but unofficial They are also estimated to say that there are more of these vehicles. I thank you very much, Mr Marshal, for this question, because I will be counting on the support of the High House during the work on the law, which will also be the implementation of EU law, on the law which in the previous term aroused, well, great interest and therefore the work on it in the Sejm has been discontinued. We are smoothing it out right now, in fact we have prepared it, it is already at the stage of work in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. She's gonna narrow it down very strongly, which is the car theme. Okay, I'm gonna stress this one more time. In a very strong way, vehicles that could travel on Polish roads without technical tests will reduce this. I will really count on the favor of the High House on these changes, and I am very pleased that this subject has been raised by your marshal, because I hope and very much count on the support of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u29	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Hare a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It sounds very serious when it comes to the consequences, when comparing the number that you mentioned, the number of devices that you would need to undergo tests, and the technical possibilities that need to be put at the disposal of those who will grant approvals. So I have this question: what institutions will work to implement this law? And two: what withdrawal period is envisaged... When they're... How much time will it take for institutions to use such devices to be approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u31	The entities that manufacture such equipment will have, in accordance with the vacathio legis of this Act, 12 months to submit such applications, not to ITS and to Transport Technical Supervision. So 12 months after the bill was passed, the time will flow in the official log. As I have already said, I think, twice in this Senate meeting, both here in the plenary room and during the Senate Committee on Infrastructure, Transport Technical Supervision and Director as an authority with colleagues, i.e. with the Office, are already prepared to issue approval certificates. And let me remind you again: such certificates have been issued by the Institute of Motor Transport in the last 16 years for engines of mobile machinery not moving on the roads. So it is not a scale that will in any way impede the work of Transport Technical Supervision or cause some great perturbation in the functioning of this institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u32	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u33	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister, just a question about sanctions. Has the sanctions changed or not? Does this law include any sanctions for the use of such vehicles or their placing on the market? And the cost of the approval itself. Have they changed or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u34	As far as sanctions are concerned, this is a new element, which is precisely the result of the regulation that we are implementing. Those sanctions haven't been sanctioned before. Only since the introduction of supervision, as we are doing now, are we also introducing sanctions for non-compliance with the law. And the fees to be charged by the manufacturer for issuing such an approval certificate were based on the existing approval system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u35	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Zdzisław Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u36	Minister, this is the question: does the engine manufacturer apply for approval, or practically the owner of the machine, the device that moves the device?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u37	Engine manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u39	I would ask, Minister, for brief information on the role of the National Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u40	I understand that in the context of this subject. Of course I do. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u41	It imposes sanctions for non-compliance with all laws, such as the exploitation of non-homologanos... not approved, a very difficult word. It's the equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u42	Once again, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Did I get that right, and I'd like to be sure... As I understand it, if someone is, for example. owner of construction equipment, excavators, road rollers or such equipment... Are they registered at the moment? Is this equipment, as long as it's not moving along the way, but it's like... on the trailer transported to the place where it is to be used, there is no registration document at the moment, neither its origin nor its rated power, no technical data of this equipment is known? Is that the way it is right now? I understand that the Ministry intends to change this state of affairs in some way and introduce some form, I don't know, registration, application, possibility of obtaining... What's that supposed to look like? Thank you. If you allow the marshal, you will give a precise answer to this issue to the Director, the representative of Transport Technical Control. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u44	Let me just remind you that you have the opportunity to reply in writing. Okay, but we're here, and we're able to answer that, so... It could even be with some delay... If the Director wants to answer briefly, go ahead. You can do more in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u45	Good morning. Thank you for your vote. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inexpensive mobile machinery has never been subject to registration of vehicles under the registration rules applicable to passenger and heavy goods vehicles, and this condition has not changed. This is the first case. The second information is this. With regard to those documents which have been issued for vehicles on the road... Let us remember that this is a European approval In this case, the EU type and earlier, according to the nomenclature, the EC. It doesn't matter much. But if European documents honoured in all Member States were issued for such vehicles, these vehicles can, of course, move without registration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u46	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me share with you the reflection on this law, but also on point 12 of our agenda, i.e. the draft resolution on the importance of European education. Here is a law that implements European law in the Polish legal order. If we had looked at what has been happening in the area of environmental protection for the last five years in Poland, we would not only have the impression, but also the deep conviction that the Polish government not only suspended the white flag in environmental matters, but is really engaged in systematic destruction in many areas of the Polish natural heritage, the Polish environment as such, and in this part of the activity related to climate change, we have not really seen any clear position for years. This is what we see on the occasion of the annual climate summits that take place in various countries of the world under the aegis of the United Nations. I have such a deep conviction that if we were not a member of the European Union, our environmental activities would not only be negligible but even harmful. This is evident at least from the absence here in the Senate, at the level of the Senate Committee on the Environment... By the way, I'm sorry this committee hasn't been meeting in months, and if it's already gathering, it's just on some current case. Well, maybe the chairman has some other idea for this committee that I don't understand. Besides, I don't have to understand or accept him. But I'm going back to the bill. I think that it will indeed be adopted over political divisions, supported by all political forces. Such regulations are absolutely necessary in the Polish legal order. Well, I wouldn't underestimate those machines which are used in Poland and which burn various kinds of fuels. I mean, for example, lawn mowers that no one's counted. There is no institution that would be able to determine how many such combustion machines are actually in Poland. The scale of pollutants resulting from the use of this type of internal combustion engines is really high. I am pleased that the government is implementing these rules, and I think that the High House should indeed support this law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u48	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Does a government representative want to comment on the discussion, or does he give up on it? Mr. Marshal, the senator's last voice was a general remark. I could answer him, but I don't want to do it. Thank you very much. We proceed with the second agenda: the act on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. The text of the Act is contained in print No 143 and the committee's report In print No 143 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Let me take advantage of the fact that the title of COVID-19 can be spoken from the place, and I will speak from the place. Yesterday, two committees were discussing the Solidarity Add-on Act. It is in print No 143, and the report in print No 143 A. This law is proceded at the initiative of the President and is intended to support those who have lost their income due to the economic situation caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. The Act sets out the conditions for the acquisition of the right to the solidarity allowance, as well as the amount, the modalities for granting and the rules for the payment and financing of the allowance. It will be granted to persons who, in 2020, have been subject to social insurance for employment, with whom, after 15 March, the employer has terminated the contract of employment for termination or whose employment contract has been terminated after 15 March 2020 with the expiry of the period for which it was concluded. According to the provisions of this Act, the entitled person will be entitled to a solidarity allowance of PLN 1 thousand 400 per calendar month. The allowance shall be due for a period of no more than 1 June to 31 August 2020, not earlier than the calendar month in which the right to the solidarity allowance has been requested. However, the Council of Ministers is entitled to extend the operation of this law. The right to the allowance will be established at the request of the holder. It should be submitted to the Social Insurance Institution, no later than 31 August, in the form of an electronic document through an information profile of the Social Insurance Institution. Information on the award of the solidarity allowance will also be made available on this profile. For the collection of the solidarity allowance, the entitled person will be covered by pension, pension and health insurance. The amount of the solidarity allowance paid will be the basis for the contribution to these insurances and the Social Insurance Institution will be the payer. Pension, pension and health contributions will be financed entirely by the Social Insurance Institution. During the period of collection of the allowance, the persons entitled to this allowance shall not be paid unemployment benefits or scholarships previously granted. If an unemployed person is paid unemployment benefits or a scholarship I was talking about, then the solidarity allowance will be paid in the amount corresponding to the difference between the solidarity allowance and that benefit or scholarship I was just talking about. The provisions of the Act also provide that the period for the collection of the solidarity allowance will not be included in the period for the collection of unemployment benefits and scholarships. The period of collection of the allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the period of work required to acquire or retain the rights of workers, except for the period of employment on which the right to leave and the period of employment depends. Where the solidarity allowance is unduly collected, it will be deducted from other benefits paid by the Social Security Office. The operating costs of this allowance will be financed by the Labour Fund, which is funded by the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. This law also provides for the exemption of the income tax solidarity allowance and for this purpose introduces an appropriate statutory amendment. Notwithstanding this, the Act amends the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions, which aim to increase unemployment benefits to PLN 1 000 200 during the first 90 days of entitlement to benefits. During subsequent days of entitlement to the benefit, the amount of the benefit will increase to PLN 942 and 30 gr. As a consequence, the amount of unemployment benefit will be increased by all benefits which depend on the amount of unemployment benefit, e.g. a scholarship granted during training or internship or vocational training. In addition, a change has been introduced which makes it possible to pay up to 365 working days for the right to unemployment benefit in a reduced period of employment and with a reduced wage below the minimum wage. And now a little bit about the proceedings of our committee. I will start by saying that this law was adopted unanimously. The Legislative Office has indicated 5 amendments, we have adopted 3 legislative amendments. The Legislative Office specifically pointed to the preamble, saying that there were no legal solutions in the preamble and that this preamble was rather a political manifesto which, in the legislative sense, did not bring anything in substance. Senator Majer, Senator Orzechowska, Senator Frost and Senator Bierecki have tabled an amendment that has been accepted. It's about art. Point 2 3, this is a correlation between the provisions concerning the payment of this supplement and the provisions of the Foreigners Act. In her speech, Senator Kochan pointed out that unemployment benefits had not been raised for many years in a situation where the lowest salary was increasing each year and that it would be worth linking both the lowest salary and unemployment benefits. Senator Kochan also pointed out that it would be worthwhile to include those who lost their jobs during this period as a result of an agreement between the parties, because there were such cases that, in fact, from the formal point of view it was an agreement between the parties, but it really looked like the employer was telling the workers: please, we have to part, because I am in a terrible financial situation, and as soon as the situation is back to normal, I will hire you back. In fact, it was actually the loss of work associated with the pandemic of Coronavirus. There was also a discussion at the committee on why it is so that if all claims for benefits in a pandemic age are submitted by paper to the Social Security Office, more than 60% of them, so to speak, are rejected because of various formal deficiencies, and if such a request is made by electronic means, only 16%. This was explained by the fact that if such a conclusion is wrongly fulfilled, the system simply does not let go and allows it to be corrected. Representatives of the Social Insurance Institution indicated that they would be able to handle and instruct all those who would like to apply for such an allowance. So much for the report, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u50	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. The bill was filed by the president. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Anna Surówka-Pasek, and Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Paweł Mucha, were authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Do the President's representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u51	Dear Marshal, High Senate! After such a reliable and detailed report by the President, Mr Senator, there are few things left to complete. As indicated here, the Act has 2 main objectives. Firstly, it provides support for people who have lost their jobs due to the economic situation caused by the crisis caused by the COVID-19 epidemic. Secondly, the unemployment benefit is permanently increased. And, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, these legal arrangements concern two groups of beneficiaries. On the one hand, These are people who today are deprived of any benefits at all. When they meet the conditions set out in the Act, i.e. that the traineeship in respect of the contribution period is at least 60 days in 2020, the situation will change dramatically for such persons as a result of the entry into force of the Act. I mean, so far they have not been entitled to any benefit, and now we will have such a situation that over 200 000 beneficiaries of this law will be given the opportunity to support in the form of a solidarity supplement, i.e. to receive the amount of PLN 1 thousand 400. If the law comes into force in June, and I very much hope that it will be so, these people will be entitled to receive the solidarity allowance from this month. The Act is foreseen for the period from June to August. As rightly indicated in the report, if the situation on the labour market were to justify this, the Council of Ministers has the statutory competence to extend the validity of this law over time. 1 thousand 400 zł versus the lack of resources in such a situation as the contract was terminated or when the timely employment contract was not extended, this applies to more than 200 000 beneficiaries. And the second group of beneficiaries of this law is over 300,000 people with a fixed right to unemployment benefits. This is a benefit which in such a case will amount to almost 200% as regards the comparison of the amount of the solidarity allowance with the amount of the unemployment benefit. Because such a person who is entitled to unemployment benefits will be able to benefit from a solidarity allowance which is almost twice as high as the current benefit. The period of collection of the solidarity allowance will not be included in the allowance period, and after the period of collection of the solidarity allowance, such a person should continue to be unemployed... Well, we have this change of law, which was also mentioned here, which is to increase the unemployment benefit in general in the first 90 days. From 1 September of this year the allowance will be PLN 1,200 and then PLN 942,30. So, in total, there are over half a million eligible people who will be able to benefit from these legal solutions. These are the people who are in the most difficult situation today. Because, of course, the President's actions and the government's activities are focused on making these effects as minimal as possible, and I am talking about the pandemic of Coronavirus, and action is being taken to protect jobs, but knowing that there are such needs, we wanted to meet these social expectations. The point is that people who are sometimes left overnight not because of their guilt without means of life Because the employment contract has been terminated because the employer has had certain difficulties with the sale of his goods, with the provision of services, with the operation, and he has made such decisions, he may have had these life needs met. So that during this period when they are looking for a job, they may have the opportunity to be supported by the State. And we're talking here, like I said, over half a million eligible, except it could be backup. not only for the person who lost his income; it may be that it was the only income in the family, so we are talking about support, which must be understood more widely. For these reasons, of course, I ask the High Senate to adopt the act of 4 June 2020 submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of the COVID-19 with those amendments already mentioned here, also in the committee's report. In the course of the work in the Sejm, it was indicated, as I said, that the period of entitlement to the allowance is at least 60 days subject to social insurance for the employment relationship and the benefit would be granted to those persons who lost their employment after 15 March. According to my memory, the epidemic was ordered on March 20th, so we're talking about taking... Some kind of temporary censorship must be accepted, and we're talking about adding the right to the addition of those who lost their jobs during the pandemic. The bill was adopted in the Sejm with the support of 430 Members, and as was well pointed out at the meeting of the Senate committees, you were unanimous, for which you were very, very grateful, asking once again to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u52	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, room 217. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, just one short question. Because as far as the 500+ program is concerned, that amount was released... which means she wasn't subject to hit-and-run. I'd like to ask you about the solidarity bonus. Are similar solutions applied in this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u54	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u55	Yeah, we have that kind of exemption, we have that kind of exemption. So I'm going to say one thousand and 400 zlotys in gross terms, net of one thousand and 400 zlotys net, which is going directly to the person, and including the exemption that the senator was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u56	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion... Ah, a government representative. Would Minister Swed like to speak? No. No. The government representative doesn't want to. Are there any questions for Minister Swede? No. Okay, here's the deal. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the granting of State aid for rescuing or restructuring enterprises. The text of the act is contained in print No 132 and the report of the committee In print No 132 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Oh, I forgot to say that the amendments to the Solidarity Supplement Act to counteract the negative effects of COVID-19 were made by Senator Tomasz Grodzki. We're going back to the point, and I'm asking the senator for a report from the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u57	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on State Aid for the Rescue or Restructuring of Entrepreneurs adopted by the Sejm on 28 May 2020. There was a committee meeting yesterday on this subject. It's been reported, as far as 43 amendments are concerned. The senators taking part in the committee's work agree that these amendments should be accepted by the government. I am presenting a report on this. The Act sets out the conditions and procedures for granting public aid to businesses for their rescue, temporary restructuring support and restructuring, hereinafter referred to as "aid'. The aid scheme for entrepreneurs in difficulties is set out in the Government Programme of the New Chance Policy, which is included in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 22 July 2014 and is intended to counter the premature liquidation of enterprises. The Act ensures the implementation of an aid scheme approved by the European Commission as one of the instruments of the New Chance Policy programme. The arrangements provided for by the Law complement the regulations provided for by the Law of 15 May 2015 and the Restructuring Law. The government's assessment of the success of restructuring measures requires financial support for entrepreneurs, which is a necessary part of a successful restructuring process. Financial assistance to entrepreneurs, including those in difficulty but not yet in any restructuring proceedings, is intended not only to complete restructuring activities but also to support liquidity over the period needed to prepare the restructuring plan. By the end of 2016, public aid to entrepreneurs undertaking remedial measures was granted by the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters. The Minister granted aid under the Regulation of 20 March 2015 on State aid to rescue and restructure entrepreneurs. The aid was financed by the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. The need for a law is linked to the repeal of the Law of 8 August 1998 on the rules for exercising the powers of the Treasury on the basis of which the abovementioned Regulation was issued. In fact, in the article. 139a Act of 15 May 2015 on Restructuring Law was authorised by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs to lay down the rules for the granting of public aid for restructuring in the Regulation, but that act was not issued. In view of the fact that the scope of the cases governed by the Act in question goes beyond the framework of the delegation, in particular a new form of restructuring aid in the form of an administrative penalty relief has been introduced, it has been decided to repeal that Article. 139a and comprehensively regulate the issue of state aid in order to save and or: or The restructuring of entrepreneurs in the Act. Aid in the form of financial support will be provided in the form of a loan. In addition, restructuring aid may take the form of: holding shares or shares in an increased share capital or participation in an increase in share capital by increasing the nominal value of existing shares or shares, covering bonds, changing the repayment dates of the loan to the entity granting the restructuring aid, converting the loan as rescue aid or as temporary restructuring support, into shares or shares of undertakings. The aid will be granted from the State budget at the written request of the economic operator in difficulty. Exceptionally, rescue aid and temporary restructuring support will be eligible for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises fulfilling the conditions laid down in Article. 141 point 1 of the Act of 15 May 2015 on Restructuring Law. Commission adopted I'm just gonna take a look and see how many of these corrections were there. 42 amendments and requests the adoption of the law together with these amendments. None of the members of the committee voted against, and they weren't even there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We accepted it in consensus. I also want to make a proposal here to make amendments And there's quite a lot of them that have been blocked and that we can vote on these amendments in the blocks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u58	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are any of your senators... No. Is he asking you a question? No. You are responsible for yourself, Senator Zdrojewski, as I understand it... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay, no questions asked. Thank you. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. But now I have to announce a recess because there is no representative of the Ministry of Development, the Undersecretary of State of Krzysztof Mazur, and therefore he cannot appear, possibly, and there is no possibility of submitting questions to him. So I'm declaring a recess. Two minutes. Five minutes! Yeah, up to five minutes. So don't go anywhere. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 23 to 14 minutes 25]] We're back on the bill. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Krzysztof Mazur like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Mr. Marshal, of course I'm ready. But I've been informed that the Senator rapporteur will be the first. Mr. Senator told me. Now, the question is, do you want to speak? You don't want to. Good. Thank you. But there may be a question for you, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... Senator Ambrozik from room 217 wishes to ask a question. Minister, in that case, I'd like to speak to the speaker. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you how high the budget of this aid scheme will be and whether there are any analyses or estimates, how many possible entrepreneurs will be able to benefit from this programme, how many proposals will be made and whether these possibly secured funds will be sufficient for this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u60	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u61	Thank you very much. According to the Act, this is PLN 120 million per year for 10 years, a total of PLN 1 billion 200 million. This is the financing agreed with the Ministry of Finance under the guidelines of the European Commission. In addition to this, an amendment was adopted yesterday by the Senate Committee, under which this mechanism could be co-financed by the COVID-19 Fund. So that, depending on demand, it will be possible to increase this amount by the end of 2021, as long as aid to combat the economic effects of COVID-19 is necessary. As for the second question, according to our estimates, the average cost of aid... Let us remind here that we are talking about both liquidity, short-term, half-year, and corrective action, 18-months, or deep restructuring, which has already been going on for 10 years. Thus, depending on the size of the company and depending on the depth of the intervention, different measures will be available. But we estimate that this will be between PLN 0.5 million and PLN 1 million. So assuming that this is 120 million a year, we're talking about 120 and 240 companies a year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u62	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you... He's still here. Yes? Oh, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u63	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, short question. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has tabled more than 45 amendments to this law. Do you agree with all the amendments? Why are there just so many of them?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u64	Yeah, we had an intense job on the committee yesterday. We agreed with these amendments. They were largely tidy, so that we thank the Senate Legislative Office very much here. They didn't change the substance. They were really cleaning up this bill, and thanks to that, I hope, this piece of legislation is even better today. So that we agreed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u65	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Is there another question? No, there isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I volunteered for discussion. When? Well, I'm sorry. I've closed the discussion. Mr. Marshal... No. I locked it and it's over. I signed up. But who did you sign up for, Senator? I don't have any information about that. Mr. Marshal, you were there. What was I on? No, Mr. Senator. I've closed the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 137, and the report is published in print No 137 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee. The senator is in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u66	Yes, in room 217. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I'm gonna have to speak up because I can't hear you. The Committee on Budgets and Finance considered the Public Finance Act yesterday. This law was presented by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tadeusz Kościński, to the committee, followed by a discussion. The basic objective of the Act is to exclude the application of a stabilising expenditure rule also in the event of an outbreak being declared throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. I would stress that, too. Until now, it has been possible to exclude the application of this rule in cases of martial law, the introduction of a state of emergency throughout Poland or the introduction of a state of natural disaster. Now we add the state of the epidemic to these events. In this case, it will also be possible to exclude the application of this rule. There is also a condition to exclude the application of this rule, namely that the projected annual dynamics of gross domestic product must be less than 2 percentage points less than the average dynamics of gross domestic product. There's a second target. The second objective of the Act is to create a mechanism for a return to the application of a stabilising expenditure rule after the period of its exclusion. This is very important. The Act contains conditions on the basis of which it is possible, so to speak, to specify the time at which it will be possible to return to the application of a stabilising expenditure rule. The Act will already be applicable to the draft law amending the budget law for 2020. As I said before, there was a brief discussion. The bill is not controversial. Rather, the discussion concerned the future of application of this rule after the outbreak ceased. It was proposed that this rule be clarified. The Minister of Finance, who answered the questions, has indeed confirmed that the Ministry of Finance is working on this and that the relevant law will be presented to the Sejm and then to the Senate. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, no amendments have been made to the bill. On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I move that the Senate adopt this law in the version presented by the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u67	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Are you Deputy Minister Piotr Patkowski... Since the finance minister hasn't reached us yet, I could announce a short 10-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The minister's here. Okay, let's keep going. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Question for you, Deputy Minister Piotr Patkowski: would you like to take the floor on the bill under consideration? Kościński Tadeusz... Sorry, there's been a mistake. Would you like to speak? No, thank you. The Minister himself... So I am directing this question to Minister Kościński, who I also welcome to the Senate. He won't speak. No, thank you. The Minister doesn't want to speak on the bill under consideration. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There's one thing. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Minister, in that case, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An additional rule has been introduced here that this expenditure rule will not apply if an epidemic is declared throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. But there is another condition, namely the epidemic threat. Did you deliberately skip this state? Do you think this rule should not be suspended in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u69	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u70	If I understood correctly, you said that the epidemic... He's included at the moment, but there's still an epidemic threat in the bill. He either precedes the epidemic or follows the epidemic. At this point, we think it's enough to have an epidemic, because the threat itself probably wouldn't cause any major changes in the economy. We have to remember that we have combined these two conditions. There must be a declaration of martial law, a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster, or an epidemic, and there must be a serious drowning in the economy. The threat itself probably wouldn't have had that effect, so we're just leaving the epidemic here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u71	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Paweł Arndt, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I said that the bill did not raise much controversy, but I would like to make a few comments. The first point concerns a public consultation. Well, unfortunately, once again, the government bill did not pass before it was sent to the Sejm all the way to consultation. Some operators complain that such consultations have not taken place. Employers of the Republic of Poland also complain about this, and write to us letters that the project was not consulted, among others. with the Social Dialogue Council. Well, it shouldn't be like that, and we're all aware of that. I know, of course, that it is quite urgent, because without this law we will not be able to prepare an amendment to the 2020 budget, but I do believe that such consultations should take place. I don't think it would take much time. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance has organized some consultations, but only with selected experts. All representatives of the workers' and employers' sides were not invited. That's the first point. The second point is that this law would not have to see the daylight at all if the state of the natural disaster had been introduced in Poland. This is what we have called for as a political group, but also other political groups have called for the government to introduce a state of natural disaster. Then such a law would be unnecessary, because in the Public Finance Act it is already possible to suspend this rule In the event of a natural disaster. Finally, the third point about the future. We discussed this future a little bit at the committee meeting. This is quite important, quite important, because so far experience in the application of a stabilizing spending rule indicates that it is highly effective. Unfortunately, in recent years, the increasingly stabilising expenditure rule has become an institution that is dealt with through various activities, although legal, often newly adopted, but probably not in line with the essence of stabilising the expenditure rule. It could certainly be more effective if expenditure were not to be spent in different ways, apart from the general government that is covered by the rule. Recent examples of this were changes in the Solidarity Fund, at the end of 2019. In this new, already adopted legal state, one-year monetary benefits for pensioners and pensioners, which have so far been served by the Social Insurance Fund, will be eligible for funding through the Solidarity Fund. That, of course, is not the only point. about what happens around the rule, she is celebrated in different ways Many funds are excluded from this rule. I'm sure that's not the way it's supposed to be. If we had changed that, it would certainly have a positive effect on public finances. During the work of the committee, the Minister said that work is underway on amending the Public Finance Act in this part concerning the stabilisation of expenditure rules. Regardless of this, a group of senators from our group is preparing a draft amendment to this law, which aims to clarify and supplement the rules precisely in terms of stabilising expenditure rules. I hope that this project will soon be submitted to the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u73	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, also from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This rule is indeed very important, but... And so, as parliamentarians or as inhabitants of Poland, we cannot find out what the current debt of the state budget is. We can't find out because we're based on a budget that was created by Minister Banasi. It was last year, summer, and that's what we're based on. All countries have already reviewed the budget, the French have reviewed the budget 3 times, the Czechs have done 2 times, the Germans have done and we do not know where we stand. It is even said that the government conducts creative accounting. It is unacceptable that e.g. The State Development Fund releases bonds that... This is a stricte company. state, releases bonds and the National Bank of Poland buys them. Well, it's okay, because it could have positive effects... I know the Ministry is counting on inflationary impulses and devaluations of gold, but we also need to take into account the negative effects The decline in consumption, the inhibition of... Then the National Bank of Poland will at all costs defend the zloty by various foreign exchange movements, but then it will be too late. There's really creative accounting here. During the discussion of all the shields, the Minister was missing, one of the shields was Minister Emilewicz, then Mr Schreiber, then Mr Boris, and we feel that we cannot find out what the debt of the state is. Convergence documents I read into them Nor do they show the government's debt as it is. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of VAT collection is poor, because this gap is 25 billion PLN. Yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke of the mobilisation of additional funds from the National Road Fund of 25 billion. But that's also... Well, it's hiding debt. It's all next door, it's all populist. When are we going to see a revision of the budget and find out what the actual debt of the state budget is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed and Rafał Ambrozik have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 130 and the report of the Commission In print No 130 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Bogucki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The Act amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurance and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities is intended to provide the Financial Supervision Commission with legal tools for effective supervision of foreign insurance companies and foreign reinsurance undertakings from other than the Republic of Poland of a Member State of the European Union, which carry out activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland through branches or in other ways than branches within the scope of freedom to provide services. The amendment also implements the 2019 European Parliament Directive on the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance, on markets in financial instruments and on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. In accordance with the amendments to this Act, on the basis of the provisions which are introduced, the supervisory authority will be able to apply sanctions to the authorities managing foreign insurance undertakings of three times the average remuneration of the last 12 months and, if that remuneration cannot be determined, of up to PLN 100 000, and impose a penalty of 0,5% on the foreign insurance undertaking. the contribution from insurance contracts concluded in the course of carrying out activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland by that foreign insurance undertaking in the previous insurance year, and where that undertaking has not carried out such activities In the amount of up to PLN 100,000. In the case of establishments operating in the territory of Poland, the sanction that is applied to Polish establishments may also be imposed, so in order to remedy the irregularity immediately or to prevent further irregularities, the undertaking will be able to apply any powers it applies to national insurance undertakings or national reinsurance undertakings. Thus, the provisions in question allow plants operating through branches not established in Poland to be treated in the same way as plants operating for years in the territory of Poland. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting yesterday adopted a law without comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u77	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you again, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Do Minister Tadeusz Kościński or the Deputy Minister he has appointed want to speak? Thank you. And neither are you, Deputy Minister Nowak. Thank you. But at present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rafał Ambrozik from room 217. Minister, which one of you is the speaker? Minister Nowak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this bill introduces, in addition to the usual surveillance procedure... Mr. Senator, louder because you can't hear very well. One more time... This law introduces, in addition to the ordinary surveillance procedure, which, I understand, is currently being applied, also such an urgent procedure. I'd like to ask you how they're actually different. That's the first question. And second question. How many such interventions must KNF take on a yearly basis, and how much punishment does KNF impose?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u80	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senator, What's the difference? Let me get this straight. Insurance undertakings may operate in two ways within the European Union. They can work on a principle, let's call it a local license, which is like 99%. plants in Poland, or 99% , pi times the door, the contribution assigned... i.e. the entity seeks a licence to conduct insurance and reinsurance activities in Poland, applies to the Financial Supervision Commission, gets permission and the Financial Supervision Commission supervises and regulates all of this. He has been active in the European Union for some time now. passporting. So any entity that holds an insurance business licence is similar in the case of banking activities In a given country of the European Union, it can open its business, sell policies throughout the European Union. So that's like, uh... We have an entity that operates on the basis of a licence from a country in the European Union, but can open and sell, operate also in our country. And the whole idea of this passporting was that all the oversights in the European Union would communicate with each other, cooperate, and there would not be any, let's call it, shortcomings. Life has shown that things are a little different. In our country, 3 companies operating on the basis of passporting have opened up, if I remember correctly, and started selling their insurance products. The Financial Supervision Commission in the case of one of them, where the scale was beginning to reach a certain, I would say, noticeable mass, understood that the way in which risk management was carried out, the amount of contribution to cover potential losses and the provisioning for potential insurance payments were unsatisfactory. The Commission sent several messages, talked to these representatives, but there was no response. She has been in contact with the supervisor many times, i.e. with a KNF from the country of the entity concerned, but this unfortunately did not have any effect. I myself had the pleasure of discussing ECOFIN with that finance minister on occasion, so that there might be some influence, so to speak, accepted to draw attention to this type of work, I do not want to say a hole, but some inconveniences of this cooperation. It didn't work much either. That is why we have decided, which is in line with the directive, to introduce an additional tool for the Financial Supervision Commission to protect all insured persons. This is different... These regulations will only apply to entities that operate and sell insurance in Poland and have obtained a license in another country. They did not obtain a license to sell supervised by KNF because there is no such requirement. This is European Union law. And that's why it's different. All other insurance companies that operate are supervised by KNF. Nothing's changed here. Only 3 entities are currently involved. As far as penalties are concerned, they have not been imposed so far because the committee did not have such a tool. We're just introducing this tool. As the senator mentioned, that's up to 0.5% of the contribution. In the case of board members, this is, as I recall, up to the amount of 3 months' salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u81	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka and Senator Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on Goods and Services Tax, the Act on Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 131 and the report of the Commission In print No 131 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Commission held a meeting yesterday, after which it unanimously recommends that the Senate adopt this law without amendment. The Act implements 3 directives of the Council of the European Union, which are referred to as the ATAD2 package. The Act concerns hybrid structures, cross-border optimization schemes, VAT settlement issues arising from chain transactions, simplification and harmonisation throughout the European Union of rules on call-off storage, VAT identification at zero rate, and implementation of the Tax Free Tax Compensation judgment of the TSUE. The turnover requirement of PLN 100 thousand for the seller who made the sale in Tax Free is abolished. The total budgetary advantage of this law, as stated by the Minister at the meeting, is PLN 1 billion 600 million. These are the projected budgetary advantages for the adoption of the law. As I said at the outset, the committee unanimously recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't hear such questions, Senator. Thank you. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Is the Minister or the Deputy Minister... We're not commenting. Would he like to speak? No. I understand you're not commenting because this is your bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u84	We ask the House to adopt the bill in its entirety...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u85	Thank you. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no such reports, no questions asked. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Danuta Jazłowicka have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 134 and the Commission's reports In prints No 134 A and 134 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Komorowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 28 May 2020 amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and certain other laws. The purpose of this law is to amend the existing principles of development policy. The most important change is the departure from the long-term development strategy and the concept of spatial development of the country. The country's core strategy for development is to become a medium-term development strategy combining social, economic and spatial aspects. The Senate's bill comes from the Government's submission, Parliamentary Printing No 64, and was the subject of a meeting in the Sejm of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The first reading was held on 13 February, the second reading on 6 May. The third reading and adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland took place on 28 May, was 417 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 37 members abstained. I'm talking about it because it's a bill that's always expected and approved of all sides, practically the whole political scene. It was the subject of a joint committee meeting and was adopted by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. Although there was a separate opinion from the voivodships, this separate sentence after the agreements, such information was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, will be the subject of further legislative work. In the Senate, this law was also the subject of a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. 4 amendments were tabled to the Act. These 4 amendments were approved by the government and adopted unanimously by the committee. The entire bill with these amendments was unanimously adopted by the committee. The first amendment concerns terminology coherence. The provision is made that it was a project developer. Before that there were 2 names of this entity, now it has been harmonised. Amendment two. Revision of the article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 is the consequence of the amendment of this law to spatial planning plans of the urban functional area of the voivodship centre, as well as framework studies and directions of spatial development of the metropolitan union to which this art. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two is sending... This is a consequence of the revision of this article. It's just that things aren't gonna happen, so... They're losing power. Consequently, it is necessary to amend paragraph 1. Article 2 67a and Art. 67c paragraph. 5. In Amendment 3, there is a more precise reference because the article... According to Art. 22 The Council of Ministers adopts the concept of development of the country referred to in the articles... So far it has been in the article. 8a.8c. This is replaced only by an article. 8a, since Article. 8b and 8c talk about the same concept of development and are basically procedural rules. So there's a clarification of the reference and a limitation of it only to Article. 8a. In turn, the last amendment refers to the fact that as a result of the amendment and the fact that the Act of 16 April 2020 amending the Law on geodetic and cartographical law and certain other laws enters into force on 31 October 2020. The assumption is that this procedated law could enter into force earlier, which is why it is proposed that these added points in the article. 8, i.e. paragraphs 14 and 15, entered into force also on 31 October 2020. On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I request that this law be adopted with the amendments notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws was adopted by the Sejm, as my rapporteur from the local government committee said, 28 May 2020. The provisions of this law are an attempt to manage the country's development by integrating socio-economic and spatial planning. The Act contains provisions on development policy on the basis of development strategies, programmes and programming documents and public policies. This collection includes the concept of development of the country, a territorial contract, which is very well known to all of us, as well as a programme contract, a sector contract, a territorial agreement. Some of these entries definitions are new definitions. During the work of the committee which had its meeting today, stakeholders' relations were discussed in the work on voivodship strategies, local and municipal strategies. A change in approach to the country's medium-term development strategy should also be noted. The discussion raised the issue of weakening the role of regional authorities in the development strategy process. It has been pointed out that there is a consolidation of the management system at national level and thus Disturbance of the decentralised model of the country in recent years. The Act retains a transitional period for the functioning of the current policies of voivodships until 31 December 2025. Unfortunately, as I regret, the obligation to adapt the provisions of the new law has not been imposed on national strategies adopted by the Council of Ministers. In conclusion, I would like to say that the act is interdisciplinary, which means that it will continue to change. During the work of the committee, amendments were tabled identical to those tabled by the committee of the local government. These amendments were accepted by the committee, approved together with legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u89	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators may submit requests for up to a minute's duration to the senators of the rapporteurs of the two committees. Are there any such questions? There'll be a question. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, room 217. Tell me who you're talking to. Senator Komorowski. Please, Mr. Senator, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u90	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask... This project has been subject to public consultation, wide public consultation. I understand that the wording of these consultations was generally positive and only the voivodships had some doubts. about this project or this bill. I would like to ask: was this the deadline for updating the possible strategy, or were these the doubts concerning this deadline? And one more thing. When it comes to strategy at the level... I understand that strategies at the level of the voivodship are a certain obligation. And what about municipalities and districts? If I may...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u91	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u92	It was reported by the government. The government side is here in the courtroom. I think the answer given by the government side will be more precise. At the meeting of the Joint Committee, the Secretary of the Commission informed that the Act had obtained a positive opinion with the view of separate regional governments. In view of the separate view, the position was taken that legislative work would be carried out in the context of this separate opinion and that there would be a legislative initiative. That's how I understand it. That's how it was presented at the committee meeting. As for the details, if I may, I would ask the government side, because I don't want to say anything here. Okay, sure. Thank you, Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Mr Grzegorz Puda like to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because the question is, I'd like to make a brief reference. As far as the bill is concerned, the bill has been procedated for a very long time. The beginning of it... This is currently functioning from 2006, later after 2016... We started work on this amendment in 2019. We managed to collect most of the elements that were raised by local governments. As you all know, Some of your senators were certainly local government officials. The interest of the municipality is different, the interest of the old town is different, yet another marshal's office is different, so that it is very often so that unfortunately these interests do not coincide. But through many, many different types of conversations, through the arrangements that our ministry has led, we have managed to come to a certain consensus, as the Senators of the rapporteur have made this perfectly clear. It was also possible to develop certain positions, which were even expressed in the form of amendments which were presented at the meeting of one or the other Senate committee. They've been accepted and we accept it. As far as the senator's question is concerned, the voivodships also raised what you asked. It is precisely because the voivodships were afraid of a short period of time to make these changes that we extended this period until the end of 2025, thus agreeing to the proposal of the voivodships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u95	Thank you, Minister. But if you'll just stay a little longer, there might be some questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Bober.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u96	Minister, it wasn't about the Marshal's offices, it was about local governments. I understand it was a slip of the tongue. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us indeed proceed with a law that de facto changes certain rules on the programming of regional development. This bill is making a diametric change. So far, local authorities have been the leading actors in the implementation of basic tasks and development goals at the level of the regions. At the moment, this is subject to some re-evaluation. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that you do not love the state of self-government. I know that these voivodship local governments are more politicized, that half of the voivodships are managed in such a way and not in any other way, but this does not change the fact that they carry out the basic task of caring for the sustainable development of their regions. This element is not in this document. You are introducing some new regional policy instruments, sectoral development policy. The territorial contract, which was actually negotiated with the local government of the voivodship, which concerned important key development elements at the level of the given voivodship and was implemented within the framework of partnership with the Ministry, at the moment you are replacing the programming agreement, for which the voivodship local government is actually merely presenting an opinion. To sum up, let's look at this a little bit differently. You, as the Ministry, can, aside from the local government, conclude an agreement with the local government, which will not really be consistent. And that's where we go into politics. There will be no agreed development strategies here. This support will often be political, and this does not serve to build unity. The local governments of voivodships are primarily from taking care of building identity, building image of their voivodship, but above all building cohesion and local government. This kind of action deprives us of this element, which is very important to the local community. These transitional provisions are okay, let them remain in force until 2025, only that really already this year the implementation of the next perspective financed will begin and unfortunately the local authorities of the voivodships will have to have different resources than before. Well, I'm talking about this perspective that's gonna start so formally next year. That is why I support these requests made by my guardian angel from the Pomeranian Voivodeship, Senator Ryszard Świlski. I believe that the High Senate will accept them, that although in such a small way we will value the local governments of the voivodships. Finally, I'm going to talk about another very important element. This strategy excluded the element of measures available to local authorities. I am referring here to the resources of the RDPs from which it was financed in fact, the basic activity of implementing local development strategies, which took place through local action groups, multi-fund urban, rural or single-fund urban groups. I would like all these elements to be preserved, because they really have worked well in the development of voivodships so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and certain other laws, which was adopted by the Sejm on 28 May 2020, has been in place since 2018. Their effect is to consolidate the Polish development management system and to introduce a system of integrated national, voivodship and local strategies. The main strategic document for development policy and its implementation is the medium-term strategy for responsible development. Dear Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I am concerned that the development policy pursued by local governments will depend on the central authorities, which will reduce the role of voivodships in the allocation of EU funds. In the Act you can find a record that The regional development minister shall coordinate the preparation and implementation of development strategies co-financed by the State budget or development measures originating in the European Union or from other foreign sources. The explanatory memorandum states, however, that the Minister will be merely helping, giving guidance, but that there is no binding force. The quoted provision of the Act may be read as a transfer to the Minister for Decision-making. This would have a significant impact on the preparation of regional operational programmes or proposals to the European Union, documents which are directly negotiated with the European Commission, as well as directly in the regions, affect the possibility and scope of the European Union's assistance. This is a step backwards from the one negotiated years ago and over the years with the European Commission, the nearest society and enabling the citizen to participate directly, in concrete projects related to regional and local policy, one of the most effective processes for spending European Union aid, which has led us to the top of the EU's Member States for more than 10 years in terms of the best use of the EU budget. Such significant changes in the Regional Policy Act may adversely affect the negotiations of the new financial perspective for 2021 and 2027. In this case, we must not forget one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, which is the principle of subsidiarity. Dear Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, experts and local government officials indicate that as a result of many years of work on the Spatial Development Concept 2030, the government is moving towards replacing it with a concept of development of a country that does not contain a spatial component. This may cause difficulties in determining the directions of the country's spatial economy, in dealing with territorial disparities of development, with chaotic suburbanisation, climate change or energy transformation, and many more can be mentioned here. Unfortunately, the strategy for responsible development also does not provide for a medium-term spatial planning document. There are also concerns that the implementation of the Act can focus only on the integration of documents, without taking into account the essence of spatial planning, its regulatory functions and their impact on local planning solutions. An example of what can happen is e.g. predicting places under key energy lines. Their indication in the plans of national transmission corridors shall be taken into account when drawing up voivodship and local plans. If these guidelines are missing, places that should be blocked under the power lines can be built in advance. The marginalisation of the levels of planning may result in a large number of investments at municipal level to continue to be created on the basis of construction conditions, so-called. T-bags, not local plans. The granting of the woust raises the value of the land immediately and its owners can therefore apply for loans and loans. However, some of these areas will never be built and will not actually have the same value as the one under which the commitments were made. This poses a danger of creating a speculative bubble in the real estate market. Prof. Tadeusz Markowski, vice-president of the Spatial Committee for the Land Management, believes that "I quote "the elimination of the long-term vision of spatial development is a crime against the national economy. I am convinced that the bill requires a relinquishment of it and the preparation of a clear and reliable record of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We are after discussing this project at committee level. I, of course, hopefully look at the new instruments that appear here. Or as completely new, or as changing the past, or issues related to the programme contract, sectoral, regional agreement... These could be tools and instruments that will actually improve the efficiency of development and the use of European Union funds in the new budgetary perspective. But it is also that these hopes collide with various fears. A moment ago, the senator was talking about problems, contractualally speaking, planning at national level. As far as some voivodships are concerned, in recent months we have had e.g. various discussions that have been conducted e.g. due to the new routes of the commuting railways to the Central Communication Port, changes to previous plans for, to put it mildly, less hit, without regard to public consultation... That is why I declare that, of course, I will support this bill, and I must say that I have, so to speak, dualism: I want to believe and believe that the Ministry, when preparing this project, looked through the prism of better use of money in the new budgetary perspective, a certain consolidation of these development processes... And I wish you that this really goes in such a way as to improve the efficiency of managing these different processes, not just centralising them at the expense of the current model. Of course, it has not always been fully effective, but it has already been tested, it has made it possible to manage the funds quite efficiently, e.g. at regional level. So I can only wish you the courage and willingness to use these new instruments. We are already after the discussion on e.g. that, under these tools, which appear, such as a programme contract, open the gate more widely also for new ways of financing investment. I say, for example. The fact that with the program contract... It nominally allows for wider construction e.g. various financial mechanisms, a combination of money from the central budget, with institutions at national level, with European funds, but also with the public-private partnership model. I will be very interested in how it will be in this field, whether the Ministry will propose different solutions and concrete decisions. Of course, I would like you to avoid the risks that arise, and to take advantage of those opportunities, which are undoubtedly also enshrined in this law, through these new instruments and tools that appear in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws in principle always raises a discussion about the foundations of a certain social order, which, according to the logic enshrined in the Polish Constitution, determines the three-step administrative division of the country, duplicates that next to the government administration is the self-government administration, I say: at the level of the voivodship... So these are the issues that are described in the Constitution. And these are issues that par excellence also has a political dimension, because it is not so that each area of the country has the same value, in terms of economic or social potential, or even natural resources, in terms of e.g. ecology, environmental protection. The area as a special zone may be beautiful, but poor, it may simply not be possible to conduct a rational development policy there, which would lead to its civilizational or economic lever. That is why this is a particularly sensitive issue, in my opinion, which requires, first of all, the search for the best possible solutions. In this proposed act, it is somehow trying to systemate all plans related to the development of the country. And rightly so, the government must think about such matters and these strategies must be developed, all the more so since the means for development are now much more diversified than before. There used to be either a local government budget, or a state budget, or some kind of private-public partnership, some kind of financial assembly, and now there's a whole range of EU funds, other types of special funds that can be used to develop and build relevant projects. Therefore, this harmonisation and this rationalisation should be very large. It seems to me that the foundation here is to remember that we are dealing with such a situation that significant areas of the country... It's a little off on development policy, but it's connected to this... I am thinking here of not covering large areas of the country with local spatial planning plans. This is a local law that really defines what is allowed and what is not allowed, whether it is possible to allocate a specific area to use whether for housing purposes or for economic, agricultural or other purposes. And this is the sphere that I think would require regulation, perhaps in such a way as to create a special fund that would enable these entities, these municipalities, which for financial reasons are unable to bear the development of a local spatial planning plan, I think of small and rural municipalities for which this is the foundation of development. To obtain and make use of these funds on an appropriate basis so that such plans are made. Especially since the so-called. The woust, the infamous institution of the woust mentioned by Senator Jazłowiecka, is an institution that is in some sense discretionary. She refers to certain principles, to what is in the area of the planned investment, but it is a discretionary element and will therefore always raise discussions. A local spatial planning plan that clearly defines the criteria, which are allowed, which must not be done, to what extent it is the foundation. It seems to me that what is particularly important is that the central authorities, the entities of local government and the various agendas, including central ones, and agencies, cooperate harmoniously here. This is, in my opinion, a fundamental issue in order to create a system that would allow reasonable use of the so-called. late-term pensions. What do I mean? Well, Poland because it was the period of the Polish People's Republic, we were cut off from the West, we had a centrally controlled economy, we have all this, this entire heritage of the past, civilizationally has a lot to catch up on, despite these 30 years of change, we still see that this area of work is very large. And now it is important that during the planning of Poland's development to benefit from the pension of delay, i.e. do not duplicate those errors that have been made in countries that have already undergone a certain cycle. E.g. The environmental issue here is so typical. When the West Italy, France built highways, infrastructure, etc., it was not strict environmental standards. Now that we're trying to build, there are environmental disputes about whether you can build there, whether it's not a Natura 2000 area or something else. The point is that this pension of delay in such a cyclical development, especially where this way of thinking or targeting activity has not been hit... The idea is to immediately try to jump into good solutions, to apply those that are simply efficient and ecological, at the same time referring to a well-understood social interest. I would encourage the government to think that way. I think that there is a consensus, also a social one, around such topics, because development policy is also a policy of building different levels of social communities that are interested in this policy, because it allows them to see space for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Śvilski, Alexander Szwed and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Ryszard Świlski. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? We responded to the proposal at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And now, for a moment, we are back to the second agenda: the Solidarity Supplement Act granted to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that, as announced earlier, points 8 and 9 will be considered tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on the development of the ground communities and the law on the integration and exchange of land. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling, is included in print 77 and the committee's report In print No 77 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Today I present to you the report of the joint committees The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the Development of Ground Communities and the Law on the Integration and Exchange of Land. Original printing is printing 77 and the printing of the Commission report is printing 77 C. High Izbo, the Act provides for legislative amendments to the Law of 29 June 1963 on the Development of Ground Communities, namely in Article. 80 paragraph shall be added. 2 and to the Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land, in this case in Article. 33 we add lips. 3. In both of these laws, the provisions are symmetrically added, stating that if the decision cannot be annulled in the case in question, although there are grounds for that, the decision may be taken in respect of such decisions in breach of the law. What is the intention of the joint committee? In its judgment of 18 April 2019, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land in so far as it precludes a final decision to approve the merger project in breach of law is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions, i.e. it is incompatible with the constitutional principle of the right to court. It should be noted that Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution states that the right to court is one of the fundamental human rights and at the same time one of the fundamental guarantees of the rule of law, and Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution prohibits the legislator from laying down rules closing the judicial path of the investigation of violated constitutional freedoms and rights. That's what happened in this case. The purpose of the Commission's project is therefore to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and to introduce by amending the provisions of the possibility of establishing, with regard to the decision to merge and exchange land, that the decision was taken in breach of the law. This will enable the injured party to claim legal compensation. Without this amendment, this is impossible because the provisions of the amending laws challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal exclude practically the application of the c.p.a. Acting that the relevant provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure shall not apply to proceedings relating to the movement of final decisions if five years have elapsed since the date on which the decision to approve the merger or land exchange project has become final. So, in such situations, the regulations of k.p.a. cannot be applied. concerning: the reopening of proceedings or the revocation of a decision or the annulment of a decision. The institution of finding the contested decision in breach of the law which I submit to the High Senate on behalf of the joint committees will enable both the rule of law and the principle of citizen's confidence in the State to be implemented. Importantly, it will also strengthen the functioning of principles such as the principle of legal security, the principle of legal certainty and the principle of stability of legal relations. This will be because the finding of a decision in breach of the law will not remove the decision from the legal market, although it is defective, but will give the citizen a basis for making a claim for damages. This proposal provides that, in a similar way as in the Law on the integration and exchange of land, an amendment of the Law of 29 June 1963 on the development of the ground communities will be made, since the same reservations can be expressed in principle in this law. The proposed law also regulates transitional provisions, determining that the proposed provisions may also be used by parties to proceedings initiated or terminated before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. This amendment is to enter into force 14 days after the announcement. High Izbo, to conclude, I would like to inform you that opinions have been received in this project, among others.: Ministry of Justice, Attorney General of the Republic of Poland, Supreme Court, Rural Union of the Republic of Poland and National Council of Agricultural Chambers. All these opinions are positive towards this project. Mr Marshal, the joint committees have adopted this proposal in principle without reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u105	Thank you. Mr. Senator, you may remain. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent it. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I very much support the essence of this project, but I have a question about whether the committee, when preparing this project, has read some statistics. How many cases are there gonna be here... It's about the investigation right now in front of the courts. What could be the number of cases? Because I understand that these cases will take place before the provincial administrative courts. So this applies to the administrative court. And is there a known scale of this? How big was the problem? Because I think that each of us, the senators, in our senator's practice, met with these kinds of cases or similar matters concerning these particular issues. Especially where we are dealing with agricultural areas or forest areas, because this is a problem that particularly affects these areas. But it's not just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u107	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, the intention of the High Commission was to bring the law in force into line with the Constitution, because, according to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the laws I mentioned were contrary to the Constitution. So here we are dealing with the implementation of the idea of compatibility of law with the constitution regardless of the scale of the problem. Even if there was not a single case, at least so far, these laws should still be adapted to the Constitution. As far as scale is concerned, it has not been studied in the design of the project, of course, except in the attempt to assess the impact of regulation. Unfortunately, there is also no data available from the government, so that we can determine it in some rational way. That is why we are talking about this in the impact assessment that is attached to this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u109	Thank you. Senator Mariusz Gromko from room 217. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u110	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... Louder, Mr. Senator. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have this question because of the policy of Community land, which means that one vote equals one plot of land, how are the votes of several shareholders who inherited 1 plot calculated?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u111	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u112	Thank you very much. The question you've asked is just part of a bigger problem. This problem was raised on the occasion of the proposal for this amendment, but it is not related to this amendment at all, because I will repeat once again the idea and the aim is to adapt the legal framework, i.e. the laws adopted by Parliament, to the Constitution. But we share the view of some of the participants in the discussion, also those who represented the organisations of local self-government units, that the issue that the senator was kind to address, perhaps should be resolved in another aspect, in another initiative, in the legislative initiative concerning the ground communities. This law does not, to any extent, apply to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Minister... I have a question. Who? The minister's office. Well, let's see if... The Minister is, uh... The Minister isn't here. The Minister isn't here. And there's a question for him, Senator Jean-Marie Jackowski's question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're gonna live without... You can do this. It's a break, right? No, no, no. Right, right. Ministers should be here at the meeting. It seems so. Then follow him. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can Senator Jan Maria Jackowski drop the question? Can he give up on the question whether he can give up on it? I can drop the question if the Minister isn't here. That means we're continuing our deliberations. I'm just saying that so we're clear. Thanks, thanks, you're great. We're continuing our deliberations. We've contacted the Minister. The Minister hasn't left yet. Oh, I see. Okay. Okay, well, I'm pulling out, so... I'm dropping the question. Would anyone else like to ask the Minister a question? If so, I'll order a recess. No. No questions. But what I'm trying to say is it's another one of those things today. This is the third time I had to take a break to explain why... to ask the ministers to be here. It's not a good situation. I'm signaling it to protocol. Therefore, we are moving on to the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. And before that, I would like to inform you that Senator Mariusz Gromko has submitted his statement to the minutes. There were no conclusions? No. Good. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law Minister Warchoł is, isn't he? There it is. There it is. Well, I'd rather check it out. So that's the second reading of the draft law on amending the law, the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. It is included in print No 79 and the committee's report In print No 79 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to present a joint report on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the conclusions of the committee's work. I will try to briefly describe the course of the discussion. 2 meetings of the Committee on Local Government, Legislative and Human Rights were held. They were accompanied by substantive discussions, for which I would like to thank the senators of both the opposition and the coalition. The aim of the amendment is to amend the article of the Penal Code and the Municipal Government Act. Protecting the local government, not the local government, was the slogan behind both the work on this law and our discussions. I would like to emphasise once again that this has been going on many times, because it is about securing the local government, not the local government, and it is about protecting the mandate chosen by means of the general elections. Why should elected self-governments have protection against abuse of sanctions? Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of slogan here, the question is that if we want to protect local government officials, why not other officials who also operate and are exposed to these sanctions. For example, doctor's offices are an example. The answer is simple. In fact, local government or local government elected in direct elections are irreplaceable directly. This cannot be compared to an old-fashioned function that can be replaced by choosing another deputy, old-fashioned or marshal's choice. As far as the mayor and the president are concerned, these people are virtually irreplaceable. However, during their absence from work, they must be replaced and now replaced by the Commissioner appointed by the voivode. There have been proposals to amend our bill by Senator Czerwinski and Senator Ambrozik. I do not hide that both changes would be acceptable to us. For us, every step towards protecting the local government's mandate, which manages the municipality, is valuable. However, after repeated, even multi-hour discussions, we have failed to reach a compromise. There were words, arguments like that if there were even one pathological case in the country, it would be worth working on such a law and making changes that would protect against further cases. Unfortunately, there are quite a few such examples. I will only use a typical example from the last six months, an example that really has upset the public and the local government, and I mean the case of the infirmary. Here, the prosecutor sanctioned the mayor and his deputy, he quickly introduced the commissioner, who immediately started working to remove the members of city boards, appoint new presidents, which had neither social acceptance nor was understandable. The appointed commissioner is a 27-year-old man whose experience in office work is three months in old age. This example shows that unfortunately there is a gateway that can lead to a kind of pathology related to the fact that the authorities elected in direct elections are replaced by nominates that have nothing to do with local government. Therefore, the intention of this amendment of our law is that the court, not the prosecutor, should take part in deciding to apply such drastic measures, such as the appointment of a commissioner. We have, of course, received a negative opinion from the Ministry of Justice, with which in a large part we could agree. We do not say that with everything that Minister Warchoł wrote there, we disagree. The basic charge is that today there are already tools that secure the proceedings and guarantee that, in fact, the retired mayor or president may appeal to the court. I will refer again to this one, maybe a negative example, but significant, significant. After the decision of the prosecutor, the mayor of Niepołomic waited for the decision of the court of 2.5 months. That's the term. completely unacceptable with the functioning local government. I will just remind you that this was all happening at the turn of the year when the budget is adopted, when money is spent, when decisions on EU funds are made. And these 2,5 months... this cannot be treated to any extent as an action consistent with the term "immediately." We want the local government not to be left without the host, to make decisions and to be made by people who are from the local community. And if there are already sanctions in the form of a waiver from the office of mayor, mayor and president, they shall be decided by the court. The charge of the Ministry of Justice, one of the primary, was this. Since the D.A. is pressing charges, he's informing the defendant of the charges... When he continued to serve, he would return to the office, there would be a likelihood of math, a likelihood of affecting officials. And that argument is acceptable. Therefore, I do not hide the fact that we have prepared an amendment that aims to ensure that the decision to apply sanctions is taken by the court within 24 hours. Since decisions relating to detention can be taken quickly, without delay, the court may as well decide to apply sanctions within 24 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, I no longer want to develop the subject of the fact that in the case of the unbelievable mayor for more than six months... I mean, the charges are filed, but there's still no indictment. It's been six months. The man who served as mayor was elected in direct, free elections, deprived of the means of life. If he had been arrested, he would have been paid a salary, at least part of his salary, and because he has only been charged and that sanctions are applied, he is deprived of the means of life. Well, he can't... And all of this is based on a prosecutor's decision, and then, after two and a half months, it's a court decision. I would stress that after two and a half months. Previously, the Commissioner is introduced into the municipality. This case, at least one, shows that there must be changes in the penal code and in the local government law. I will remind you: this is the 2012 Local Government Act, which was improved because by 2012, the mayor, mayor or president, who even got arrested, did not lose his function. Of course, it had to be changed, and no one questioned it. It was unacceptable that for a year or more someone would perform their duties with the charges against them. In this case, we are talking about sanctions that are usually not related to heavy charges and serious crimes. If the charge is serious and the crime is serious, even if it's corrupt, then the D.A. is in custody. The application of sanctions usually concerns charges of excesses, and in the performance of the function of governor, mayor and president such a offence is very easy to commit because difficult decisions are made. If we do not find a way to change the situation that we are dealing with today, the effects of the functioning of the local government can be much deeper, because fear of decision-making in local governments can result in the fact that the mayors, mayors and presidents will be afraid to make difficult, sometimes risky decisions. Okay, I'll mark it right away. Nothing to do with the intent to break the law. And it can produce effects, such as in the case of non-Holymans. The committee therefore requests the adoption of this draft law, even against those negative opinions, which often refer to the concept of an immediate decision. Minister Warchoł also refers to the record that the court has an obligation to make immediate decisions, but that in my opinion this is a very vague one. Well, in the case of the Niepołomice, this instantness meant 2.5 months. These 2.5 months are really a lot of time in the life of the local government, and that is why we would like to protect local governments from such situations. I will quote here a short sentence of Professor Krygier, who said this: The letter of law is useless when it comes out of culture. When we speak immediately, anyone who knows the language created by generations knows exactly what is going on. And the unmoderate, unenhanced authority thinks that she must have a free hand. So the abuse of the term "immediately," this soft formulation, often takes months. And I would like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a law directed against this or any other authority. Power may change in six months, a year, five years from now, and we would like the government to be protected, so that the mayor or president would not be afraid to make difficult decisions, he was not afraid that if these sanctions were applied he would be deprived of his function. Sometimes it takes a while. There have been cases where it lasted several months, but in the case of Niepołomice It's been six months. In the case of Spratawa, where there are corruption charges, we stand a little bit sideways. We don't want to get involved in the Shprotawa case, but the mayor's arrest has been going on for over six months and has been extended again. These allegations are related to the acceptance of the property benefit by a priest who accused the mayor as if a conto event that is due to take place in six months. It's completely incomprehensible, incomprehensible, but it's no longer a specific charge, because there's a court of law to settle the guilt or the absence of it, and we fully understand it. We are primarily concerned with this living organism, which is self-government. ♪ Sometimes ♪ ♪ Sometimes These are small municipalities, and sometimes large units were in some way protected. And once again, it's not about creating a privileged group. The point is that the self-governments who are elected, who come from the choice of their residents, may be somehow... It's not even about protecting them, but it's about making a decision to apply sanctions a court, not a prosecutor. That's it. If there are questions, I am at your disposal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent them. Two senators have signed up for the questions so far. Senator Jolanta Hibner's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u116	Thank you very much. I have this question: why do prosecutors have the power not only to keep the suspect uncle, the mayor or the president, but also to introduce the commissioner to the place of such a chosen and publicly supported host? Why is the right of these people to do their job removed without a court order? What is the reason for this? How does that explain our power? What is to be explained is that there is such a record in relation to a local host, a local governmentman, and there are no such records in relation to a Member or a Senator who, of course, has immunity, but also comes from choice? To paraphrase, I'm going to ask this question: is my function better than yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u117	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u118	Senator, I can answer this question on the basis of my knowledge, which I have gathered as a long-term self-government officer. First of all, this is the result of the 2012 Act. At the time, the legislators had such an intention that the mayors, mayors, or presidents, who could commit a crime, just like all the people in the world... There could always be some black sheep, somebody who's going to commit a crime. And there have been cases where the mayor, the mayor, or the president, has managed his community from prison with serious charges. Yes? He was in charge of the county from prison, which was not a good solution, since the charges were serious, since the arrests were in place, since the proceedings were pending. And then there was a reason to change the law enough not to lead to such pathology that the municipality is deprived of its host, who is in custody, managing the municipality. Yes? And we understand that. And then no one protested it. However, there are examples. For example, President Gorzow, who has been in custody for many, many months and has been cleared of all charges. Yeah, but the charges are filed and there's a possibility of a crime being committed. If this is a serious suspicion, then the arrest is applied. And then okay. That's when the court makes that decision. And, I think, we're not questioning that. We, as the committee, think that opinions and opposition, and coalitions were similar... It was more about the writings and direction of these changes than the letter of the law itself. And I think the reason for that is that then a little bit of the legislator went too far, giving power to the prosecutor. After that, the functions of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice were merged and previously separated. When this law came into force, it never occurred to anyone that a prosecutor in Poland might abuse his powers and apply them. It's like it happened in Niepołomice. So we're far from protecting individuals because that's what the courts are for. We don't determine guilt or lack of guilt. All we want is for local governments not to be left behind without a host. And I do not hide that the next step that we, as a government committee, will want to take is that the Commissioner, however... Perhaps otherwise: the idea is that the council of the municipality should take part in the process of electing the Commissioner. I don't know how we're gonna do this. We're going to talk about it, but I'm going to vote in the future. I wouldn't want to go too far ahead. Whether it is the Council that will give an opinion on the proposals made by the Commissioner by the voivode or vice versa, I do not know that. But in this direction, we'd like to go. I'm telling you again. Protecting the local government, not a specific man: the governor, the mayor or the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two short questions. Do municipal councillors, and more generally local government councillors and their executive bodies have immunity? In particular, do they have immunity like Members and Senators? Immunity, which is defined in the Constitution. They don't. That's very good. Because someone was talking about immunity. So we explained it together. And is there at the moment in the electoral code the possibility to choose in a particular case when no candidate for the position of governor, mayor, president of the executive body by the council of the municipality, county... I mean, in this case, Just the council of the commune. Is that a possibility? That is, indirect choices when direct elections cannot take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u121	I'm not gonna answer that question because I don't know. I didn't see it. Then perhaps the senator will be... I haven't met with it, which is why I'm not going to mislead... I'll give you a hint: Article. 482 electoral code. There's a possibility. Shouldn't we just follow that path? Maybe. Don't break down a big door, just find a gate that can get you what you want. Mr. Senator... That's how you just start tearing down the whole code. No, no, no. Mr. Senator, what you're talking about... As I said, we'd be happy to sit at the table and look for a solution to go in the direction you're talking about. It's possible, isn't it? But today we are talking about what is today and only this. However, it is a matter for the courts to take a final decision within a period of time. Am I right? Because I'm not a lawyer. The point is that this term should be strictly defined. He can be immediately, but no longer than e.g. 24 hours. And that's all we're fighting for today. Yes? 'Cause I don't think there's any doubt or controversy about the rest. First of all, it's about this record, that this sanction should not be applied for months without a court decision. In the case of Niepołomic, it was 2 1/2 months. If this is immediately 2.5 months, we don't agree to that. And I think you do, too. No matter who's in charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u122	Thank you very much. The list of people who want to ask questions has been exhausted. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister Marcin Warchoł is in the room. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u123	Good morning. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the senator very much for pointing out at the end of his statement on one particular aspect, the request not to make a privileged group among local governments, and the other. To separate the policy from this project. And that's where I'd like to start. So, first of all, let's separate the politics, second of all, let's not make the chosen ones. above the law or outside the general rule of law. These are two of my requests. First case, Art. 28g of the Municipal Government Act already provides that, in the event of suspension in the official activities of the governor, the mayor, the city president, his duties are to be carried out by his deputy. So it is possible, without the appointment of a commissioner, so that... In many municipalities, this kind of situation is happening and the deputy successfully enters into the powers of the mayors, mayors, city presidents. So that this kind of possibility is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, then there will be questions for the Minister. Excuse me, Minister. I would ask you very much to allow the Minister to speak and then questions will be asked. Thank you. There you go. That's the first line. Next case. This subject is coming back again... Let me remind you that in 2011 we had similar demands under the Civic Platform. I have a response from the 2011 Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Zbigniew Wrona, who points out that the rules on suspension in service refer to all suspects They do not contain exceptions for local staff employed on the basis of selection. You explain to the Minister, which is the essence of the suspension in business activities, is to withdraw from the performance of activities, which guarantees that no new crime is committed. This concerns activities falling within the scope of this position. I would also like to point out that it was not only this social, professional group that has been the subject of the legislator's interest in the past. I will also refer to 2011 when the Ombudsman proposed that lawyers, legal advisers, doctors, journalists should also be removed before parentheses so that only the court can suspend them in business activities. What was the response of the Minister of Justice, Minister Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, the term omen, at the moment the chairman of the Senate committee? I am very sorry that the Minister is not here today, because I think he would probably agree with us. I've got that answer right in front of me. The Minister makes it clear that no exceptions can be made to any professional group at this time in order for this court to suspend such persons in a way that favours this professional group; the legal interest of the representative of each professional group effectively secures the judicial control of the application of preventive measures which are applied to all, without exception. The Minister then makes it clear that this excludes the possibility of arbitrary and uncontrollable use of this procedural instrument by the prosecutor. And further: in view of these arguments, it does not seem justified to request that the cognition of the court be extended to include cases where the preventive measure we are talking about is applied to certain groups of persons; the provisions in force concerning the measure referred to in Article. 276, which does not provide for a special regime for special groups of persons, does not require a change; stresses that a change in the procedure for the application of preventive measures against certain groups of persons could justify a plea of conflict with the constitutional principle of equality vis-à-vis the law. Dear Senators, well, I could at the moment conclude with these words from Minister Kwiatkowski's letter, but two more words about what our science says on this subject. I'm getting the first better comment, Professor Shelly... And what do we read? That, yes, certain discussions in doctrine, in science is the issue of the admissibility of suspension in the service activities of wojts, mayors, but doubts in this regard have disbanded the Law of 2012 on the amendment of the Local Government Act, which clearly justifies that in the event of a passing obstacle to the performance of such activities, such a person is replaced by a Vice-Mayor, Vice-President. And in our opinion, this is a sufficient solution to ensure the functioning of the local government and protects against such situations as the senator mentioned. I will also mention other professional groups for which there are no such privileges and may not be. We talked about doctors, lawyers, notaries, lawyers. But let's see. For cops, for how we suspend them, for how. There are 4 grounds for suspension: mandatory in the event of an ex officio criminal offence committed, optional in the case of other categories of crime, but also exemption in the case where the interests of the service so require, but also exemption when a police officer commits an act of crime, if the act is obvious and prevents him from remaining in the service. 4 grounds for firing a police officer from duty. For what? In the name of transparency, in the name of the one who committed the act Yes, there is only a suspicion that the next day, the public should see that he, for whom there is even a shadow of suspicion, does not carry out these duties. If these regulations are not in place, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with pathology. An example? There you go. Notaries suspected of participating in the Mafia in Pomerania. There are several notaries there who successfully run their law firms, earn money. Of course, the media wrote about this problem. Thank you very much to the High Senate, specifically Senator Lydia Staron, for the proposal for changes in this area. We support him, I say. And I would like to tell you that I believe that these notaries should also be amended. The defendant, and he's still working. Why? Because my colleagues weren't so kind as to absolve him in his professional activities. The prosecutor's complaint also allowed him to continue his work. Well, there's no greater depravity than the fact that the person who extorted... I'm sorry, she's suspected of extorting apartments, she's suspected of extortion, she comes to work the next day, and she's making money from a tool she's suspected of using at the moment. Of course, the procedure is going on. We are not prejudicing its results. We don't know what's gonna happen. But it is in the name of the public interest that such a person must be removed from these activities. Just like we're pulling a police officer, we're pulling a notary. Suspects should not perform these functions. Thank you very much, therefore, and I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to withdraw from this project as harmful, as violating the constitutional principle of equality against the law, which creates a special group of people with special privileges. The current judicial review absolutely ensures respect for the principles mentioned by the senator, without prejudice to the constitutional principles of equality before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, please stay because the senators can now report from a place of no more than one minute's query to the government representative present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator... First you were Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u125	Minister, you were talking about the grounds that, for example, In the case of a police officer, four conditions must be met for sanctions to be applied to him. Can you tell us what the conditions are in the event of a suspension in the activities of, for example, the Niepołomic, a self-government officer? You were talking about four reasons. In the case of suspension of the local government, there are no indications. All you have to do is charge, suspicion, slander. Right. And now, you're talking about damage done by some mafia in Pomerania. And tell me, even in an accident... I asked for non-politics, but you've taken politics from the very first words. So please tell me: for doing damage on a massive scale of PLN 78 million, sanctions should be imposed on Prime Minister Sasina or not? That's my question. You were talking about the privileged group. Is this the privileged group or isn't it? Who creates this privileged group? As creators proposing amendments to the bill, we didn't have... I have promised several times that it is not our intention to protect anyone or to create a privileged group. I'm telling you again because you didn't hear it: I was talking about self-government, self-government protection, self-government that can't be On the basis of a plea, an accusation, an indictment that does not exist. Withdrawed for 8 months, for six months, a year from office and replaced by a Commissioner elected by a political body. You don't see any difference between a self-government officer when arrests aren't applied... We don't discuss situations where arrests are used. If the charges are serious and there's an arrest, there's no point. But we're talking about over-the-counter charges. And I'm talking about protecting the local government, not the local government. You didn't understand. You continued with your rhetoric that we wanted to create caste. We don't want to create any caste. Power is changing. You're probably gonna stop being a minister someday, too, and someone's gonna come next. The idea is to apply mechanisms that will protect the local government, not the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u126	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u127	Thank you very much. Power is changing, so each of us is doing this kind of thing in our lives, and in a little bit different, but the rules shouldn't change. And the principle of equality should apply regardless of the color of political colours. This is one of the constitutional principles, Mr. Senator. And as for the premises... Where the data existing at the time of initiation sufficiently justify the suspicion that a person committed the offence, provision shall be made for the statement of objections. Which means high suspicion, sufficient suspicion of committing a crime is the first condition. Second condition: if at this time such activities threaten the good of the conduct... I'd like to read the article. 249. He makes it clear that preventive measures are applied to safeguard the proper course of the procedure This is the second condition: to prevent the defendant from committing a new, serious crime. That's the third one. Fourth: when the data indicates a high probability of committing a crime. Finally, we have specific conditions set out in Article. 258, because so far I have read the general conditions of Art. 249. These are the specific conditions of the article. 258: when there is a fear of escaping, the defendant's hiding when his identity cannot be established, when there is a legitimate fear that he will be matting, instigating false testimony, explanations, otherwise unlawfully obstructing criminal proceedings. Those are the reasons. I think we've already counted ten reasons. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There are indications, of course. No prosecutor is absolutely arbitrary in the application of this preventive measure. It is bound by specific conditions, and it is still in such a numerous form. That's one thing. Secondly, I didn't see any of your questions in the senator's statement... There's something I'd like to point out again. Self-government, we protect self-government This is the senator speaking. But the self-government is also the barrister's self-government, the medical self-government. I don't know if there are notaries, doctors, lawyers, lawyers, but if they are, they should feel at this point... Do you think it's the same thing? [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...should feel like you're the senator... Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator... Good. I will take the floor in the discussion. ...unfortunately, discriminated against, I'm gonna say, because they're local governments, too. It's professional. This is a local government, these are professional self-governments. In 2011, Minister Krzysztof Kwiatkowski made it clear that the caste of privileged people to whom we apply different rules cannot be created. Same here. If he refused to apply special rules to lawyers, notaries, doctors, solicitors, then why create a special group here in the same way? I don't see the basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u128	Thank you very much. Do you still want to ask the senator? No, I'm in the middle of a discussion... Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From what the applicant's representative explained, it was clear that as the only reason... In fact, he just gave an example of the Influxes, but I think the court upheld the prosecutor's order there. The problem is, it was too late. So the question is, isn't it such a rule that the blacksmith was guilty and the Gypsy was hanged because it seems the court here is guilty that he was so late in making a ruling on this case. Well, I guess we need to speed up court proceedings on these cases. Making an exception in the Criminal Code for individual groups That's what the Minister said. If it were to be, it should be included in the pragmatic laws, e.g. in this case, the Municipal Government Act. What's the Minister's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u130	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u131	Thank you. I believe that absolutely pulling out any professional group, Senator, before parentheses is harmful. 'Cause there's gonna be more professional groups in a minute. If the mayors, mayors and city presidents, why not the senators, the Members, why not the lawyers, the notaries? And we're back to the same topic that was 10 years ago. I stress, already 10 years ago Minister Kwiatkowski responded, and praise him for it, enough. And I hope it cuts through any discussion for the future. There is no possibility of any breach here in principle. There is no equal and equal, simply. So even in business pragmatisms, Senator, the introduction of such distinctions would open up Pandora's can. I don't think that should be done. And as for the practice of court proceedings, of course. I don't have an influence on the court, how he's going to proceed, how he's going to proceed. It's a matter of ruling, it's a matter of governance in court of cases. And the minister of justice doesn't have anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u132	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the role and importance of local government in public administration, and given the examples given by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz and the experience of local government, I believe that it seems necessary, however, to ensure high standards of protection for local authorities, especially when preventive measures are to be taken, suspending the activities of the mayor, president or governor. And what changes this bill, what is the most important thing in this bill? Because all the amendments made to this law are consequently passed on to the courts to decide whether to apply a possible suspension, the application of a preventive measure. Because only independent courts guarantee us a fair assessment of the need for such a measure. Moreover, this law is about to resolve the legal situation of the local government as soon as possible. It proposes an accelerated procedure, a very short, accelerated procedure to clarify the situation so that this state of suspension is as short as possible and thus ensures the interests of the municipality and all its authorities, so as not to prolong the state of uncertainty and that the local government is able to function effectively. This is particularly the case when the governor, mayor or president cannot carry out their duties, and when their deputies, as Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz was just saying, cannot exercise their powers either, and these functions are taken over by a person appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, which means that a government official, even the best, is involved in the role and competence of the body elected in the general election. After all, this official is not a local government authority and the same official cannot play this role, which significantly limits the executive authority. And this state of affairs for the local government is of the utmost disadvantage. This law goes against those situations which unfortunately take place in the Republic of Poland and which are detrimental to the local government. So, as soon as possible, to reduce this state of uncertainty and, most importantly, to give the court a decision on whether or not to take this preventive measure, which is to suspend operations which, anyway, will occur in particular circumstances where there is a suspicion of abuse by the mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u135	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! It's not the first time I've come to talk to the Minister and I'm devastated by the manipulation of arguments. None of us in any way want impunity, such a request does not fall at all. Nobody wants to go back to what happened before 2012. And if the Minister looked at what he said and argued... that's how you manipulated the message. I think it's ridiculous in a serious conversation. The Minister said, among others, the argument concerning former Minister Kwiatkowski. The minister wrote it then, but he wrote about something completely different, he wrote then... It was an argument against those who opposed at all to introducing the possibility of suspension in the actions of the mayor or the mayor. Therefore, this argument should not fall in this Chamber at all, because it was about something completely different, which was not what Minister Kwiatkowski wrote at the time. I will also remind you that this quote concerning a professor whose name I no longer remember was only an argument for the fact that, in general, a suspension could not be made before 2012. Please return to a certain historical condition, why the independence of local government officials was shaped at the beginning of the transformation. In the Senate, many times on every side of the political barricade... Many times our law and justice colleagues have said that what we have really succeeded in this thirty-year period, and this is not being challenged by anyone, this is self-government reform. Why was she so shaped then? Everyone was afraid that the central power that the communists were still exercising at that time would be used to ensure that in the event of losing in local governments, and this would be the first free elections in Poland... that it would be possible to take over these local governments by dictatorship, which ruled this country for decades. The difference is that historically these fears have returned at the moment. Everything the Minister said was absolutely ahistorical, because please remember that this decision was made by the prosecution at a different point in history. That prosecution was independent, the Attorney General was then apolitical, possessing the quality of independence, a former long-term judge, with a huge authority, elected by consensus between the government It's true, Laws and Justice. And the president, who was, however, from the Law and Justice camp. Why is this project? Why did he arise? This is, Minister... The Lord came to us with all these changes... You're one of those four and a half years of change. I will remind you that there have been 7 or 8 times concerning the Law on the Supreme Court, for being on the censored in Europe at the moment, that the Court of Justice of the European Union must take care of us. This project is an expression of a lack of confidence in this authority, the intention of this authority, and... as to the political exploitation of this institution, which you are defending... If there were no suspicion that this institution could be used because prosecutors were subject to a single broadcast, this would not be the project. This bill is the result of the takeover of power over the politically independent prosecutor's office by one political party. And since the prosecution is a hierarchical institution, these concerns are expressed here. This project, apart from everything, is the result of more than four years of what I was just talking about. Political manipulation of justice and attempts to take over an independent judiciary. We still have faith in Poland that the judiciary will not be able to take over anyone until the end, because the judiciary should be independent. Therefore, despite attempts for more than four years, people of the local government who are close to the idea of decentralisation And you're her opponent, the greatest, you'd be centralizing everything. These people, such as Wadim Tyszkiewicz, are fleeing with decisions to what appears to them yet to be a remnant, an oasis of freedom, that is, to court. Today, at the hearing... the hearing of the 2019 report, the Ombudsman spoke about the actions of the authority, its officers, which are de facto pathological because they are in relation to the central authority, because of fear, servitude. He spoke of this protective umbrella, which is stretched over its actions. And that's what people are most afraid of in this bill. In view of what Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz has done And that's the last sentence. He quoted a letter of law which is useless if you remove it from a certain legal culture and from certain grounds that should be unchanged, it can be said that this project is actually very much needed. He only does one thing: just as it is impossible to give to the judges of the executive authority in any way, so no other authority can be given. And there's a huge difference to this... You've compared it, you've talked about attorneys and so on. This is manipulation. They're professional self-governments. And we're talking about self-government, which often has an obligation to collide with central power, and which is very often seen as a loot as something that can be seized by central power. And the fact that we're trying, by running from this, to give the right to a decision, not to a subordinate prosecutor, but to a judicial authority, in no way insults any democratic solution or legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like us to talk here in terms of the state and its citizens. Let me remind you that the local government is part of the state, the local government is part of the state administration. I will also remind you of the arguments I have already made here. The general elections in Poland are organized in order to elect the President of the Republic of Poland, Members and Senators, i.e. parliamentarians, MEPs, communal councils, powiats, voivodships and wójts, mayors and presidents. Of all these groups, only the latter is a group that exercises executive authority. So we're talking about a group that manages a part of the country. And in this context, the expression "several times" has been written here. The group's preference is completely unstoppable. If he suspends his duties as a governor, mayor or president, yes, it is his problem, but it is also the problem of the entire local community. In such a situation time is extremely important, because a month, two is a very long time. In the life of such a community it is a very long period, in which a lot can happen. I think that this type of situation cannot be allowed and hence this legislative initiative. I treat it as protecting the local community from excessive losses, excessive problems that arise from some legal problems. Why are there legal problems? There are a lot of people here who have a lot of local experience. I can tell you what it is like to make law in parliament from the position of local government. It's commonly referred to as chaos. And since I've worked here, I have no doubt that this is chaos. As a result of this chaos, the mayors, mayors and presidents of cities who exercise executive authority are at risk of exceeding their powers. Although they act in the best faith and follow the letter of law, as a result of a change in case law for a year, two may be held liable for exceeding powers. So that it has nothing to do with the situation of the policemen who were cited here. I'd say that. as a suspension of democratic rules for the functioning of the local community, often with enormous losses. There may be more of these cases because the quality of the law is not improving, it is getting worse. This bill has very broad support, certainly in the entire local community, and I think it is needed. If this problem is solved, it's not a first-rate case, it's a secondary one. Therefore, in the subsequent discussions on this subject, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz and the members of the Senate Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration agreed with the proposals made by Senator Czerwiński and another of the masters to change their approach to the subject and to deal with the more time-limit within which decisions should be taken when appeals against decisions are made. I think what Senator Tyszkiewicz was presenting now is in line with these proposals. It is important to solve the problems, not who will be the applicant and in which direction these solutions will go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Senators! Guests! Minister, why was there such a question? Are we talking about self-government? And because a colleague of Senator Tyszkiewicz, a colleague of Frankiewicz and I have several years of experience and we have taken care of it. But if you say that we want to create a privilege, I will say that we see, we observe the Polish law created in a new reality since 1990 and it is failing. Maybe you guys, as the ministry, should be the ones who should take care of making things better, so that there's no such thing as it is. And why is there a bill? Especially today, such a bill is needed. I don't speak politically here because since 2012 there's been a lot of misfortune, and that government, and that government. And I have two excellent examples. And what you said to the chairman of the council committee... I'm not talking about self-government, because the government can't speak for itself, but the president, the governor, the mayor, is constantly walking on such a thin line. After all, we, being presidents, are our colleagues, our sailors, every day, every week, every month, for years, making thousands of decisions. The glazers aren't perfect, it's not like everything's perfect, sometimes the clerk's gonna screw up... And who's responsible for that? The president, the mayor and the mayor. Well, we have a simple example about COVID, Shields 1, 2, 3, 4, today this Shield 4 prepared by the government, by the Ministry... There's a lot of shit in there... I would like to vote against it, but we cannot, because it concerns other very important spheres. Examples... Like you said, there's a president, he's got a deputy. But there are also situations where there are no presidents and vice presidents, for example. The president's been detained, and the vice president's on medical leave. Examples. The uncle is mostly a one-man post, no deputy. Resigns function 'Cause that's the example I've got. Or there is another situation, there is no deputy, there is a political commissioner. And believe me, I do not take this politically, but I have two examples from my region of commissioners who were cancelled after a few months by the Prime Minister of the same government who appointed them because they led to a financial, administrative and very important social disaster. And that needs to be worked out, as Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz said. Another so-called selection system. Commissioners... Let's hope they're not the commissioners of the people, as they used to say. So don't tell me we want to create some kind of privilege. We were asked by the community of local governments, which is part of Poland, our country... Local government bigger or smaller are people, Poles and Poles who live in this country. They would like this country to be managed as best as possible and by the government, and by local governments. So, please take into account that the draft of this bill, worked by two committees, will certainly heal a little... But we do not stop here because we want these changes to be so that you are convinced, Minister, that this is not a privilege for local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u140	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! When I got out of this podium, I urged you not to be a politician, and you just started your speech with politics, you started talking about what the PO was doing, what was 5, 10 years ago. Minister, what do I care? We met here to solve the problem, not to politicize. If you want to be a politician, we can start a politician. So let me ask you a simple question. The COVID Act... You're talking about creating castes, getting people out of charge. Who was the designer... Did you also give an opinion on the COVID Act, which excludes from the responsibility of persons who commit crimes connected with, for example, the acquisition of. Masks or ventilators? Have you reviewed this bill? I didn't want to do it, I didn't want to politics. You're talking about us creating some kind of caste. It's not about creating any caste, it's not about creating any privileges. This is about protecting the local government, not self-government. We don't want impunity for these self-governments. Do you understand that or not? All we want is for the commune not to be left without the host. You're talking about the vice mayor or the vice president. Do you know the case of the unbelievable or not? I'll tell you, if you want, I'll tell you. It's a non-hospital case, here you go, arresting the mayor and the vice mayor for 24 hours. Why? It's to impose a sanction. You mentioned the criteria to be met. What's the D.A. doing? He's keeping the mayor and the deputy mayor not even for 24 hours... Indeed, you're right, he does it according to the letter of the law, because these criteria are met to remove them from their duties. For what? To a serious crime? You didn't answer my question, is there someone who, for example, is a privileged caste? does damage of great magnitude to the State Treasury, at the amount of, say, 78 million PLN. This is about Minister Sasin, who makes a decision to print cards without a legal basis. You know, a self-government officer would get 150 years in prison if he did something like this. You're saying that local government officials... that this professional group is no different from, for example, the barrister's office. It's different, it's different. First of all, these are people elected directly by their inhabitants, taking full responsibility for what they do. Thus, this cannot be compared to the barrister's self-government. During our discussion, during the debate, it was said that even one pathological case is worth taking care of, changing the law and protecting against further pathologies. And we had an agreement on that, and here, I see, gentlemen are applauding when we are talking about the fact that we want to protect the local government, and you say that we are not equal to the law. You know, we don't really talk about... well, God, to put it mildly, we don't really understand each other. After all, it is not the legal protection of the person who committed the crime that concerns the protection of the self-government. If it is to be removed from office, a sanction is to be applied... A local governmentman elected by his people sometimes manages a 5,000-dollar commune, sometimes a 100-thousand-dollar one, and sometimes a million-dollar one. This is about protecting the local government. And this is creating some kind of caste? We demand that this term be binding, that is, strictly defined. I can quote these words again: The letter of law is useless when it comes out of culture. When we speak immediately, anyone who knows the language created by generations knows exactly what is going on. And the power that's not moderate, unenhanced, thinks she has to be free. That's what Lenin thought. Minister, we are not here to act like Lenin, we are here to act in accordance with the letter of law and protect not so many self-governments as the government. I'm going back to the case of the unbelievable. The detention of the mayor and the deputy mayor for several hours was only necessary to provide a basis for the application of sanctions in the form of suspension in the course of permanent damage. The mayor and the vice mayor have been locked up to meet these conditions. Once again, this is a pathological situation. Whoever worked in a local government knows what a local government is and what it is to make decisions in a local government. Is it possible to dismantle the function of a governor, mayor or president only on the basis of a plea? Well, that's conjecture. The mayor and deputy mayor were apprehended on December 3rd. How long has it been since December 3rd? Six months, right? Minister, are you supervising this? Six months go by, and the mayor and vice mayor have no charges... Sorry, they didn't hear the indictment. The charges were filed at the time of their arrest, but they did not hear the indictment. It's been six months, and the municipality is without a landlord. Today you can press charges on the basis of a plea. And in the case of local governments, it's such a big charge that... as I said, Minister, I've been president for 17 years and I've also made tough decisions. And what, I was supposed to be afraid that someone would talk to me and I'd end up in jail, just like Mayor Niepołomic, who for six months was left without money, without wages? Was I supposed to be afraid that my city would be deprived of its manager? Do you think that's normal? No, the government is specific. It's not about the professional group, it's about the local government as an organization. So once again, we can talk about a pathological situation here. For several hours, the mayor and the deputy mayor were locked up. It happened on December 3rd, at the turn of 2019 and 2020. If one of you has even gotten ahead of the local government, he knows that at the turn of the year decisions are made regarding the approval of the budget, investment expenditure, etc. On December 20th, Commissioner, 27-year-old, young man, whose professional experience is 3 months in office, in old age, entered the city office. This man has taken over the function of voivodeship and has managed this municipality until today, it has been for more than six months. I'm not gonna bring up an article about this anymore, because it's a waste of time. This is the commissioner who doesn't come to the city council sessions at all. Gentlemen of the Self-Government, can you imagine someone running the commune without showing up for six months at city council sessions? He issues orders, issues dispositions, but doesn't appear at city council sessions. We were talking about pathological cases, and that's a pathological case. For six months there have been protests of the inhabitants. As I said, the Commissioner doesn't appear at all in the sessions. Emotions are that councilwoman PiS fainted. The atmosphere has become so dense, so tense that human relations are now fatal. The councilwoman was lifted from the council meeting because her emotions keep growing. It's been six months, and there's no indictment. If anyone says nothing's happened, I don't agree. It took two and a half months to consider a complaint against the D.A.'s decision on sanctions. Mr. Czerwinski may be right. We talked about how we could find an intermediate solution, because if something lasts 2.5 months, it doesn't happen immediately. That was how long this suspension lasted, how long it took to wait for the court to decide. I'm gonna say again that I talked to that mayor, and I know he hasn't had the means to live in six months. Perhaps someone is assuming that the mayor, mayor, or president has been so puffed up by his function that he has already been assured of his existence. This man can't take a job. Well, without an indictment, the mayor can't take the job. He can relinquish his function, maybe a new election is scheduled. It's also an option, a way out of this pat. So once again, to sum up... There are various pathological cases, there are many, I've quoted one, I can quote another, but that's not the point. Let me repeat with great emphasis, at the end, once again: if this solution does not correspond, let us look for another, but we cannot allow for the pathological situation that the present law allows. And that law needs to be changed, not relied on what was in 2012. It is 2020, the local government is a living organism, and the authorities, mayors and presidents are responsible for their inhabitants. And I'll say it again: we can't allow self-government colleagues to be afraid of making decisions. That's the worst thing that could be! It's not about how much someone might be in jail, but it's about how fear of the consequences of decisions, sometimes risky, can have incredible consequences. And this must not be allowed. I submit, Mrs. Marshal, an amendment to your hands, which concerns shortening the deadline from 3 days to 24 hours. And in this way, I rule out to the Minister the argument that one who is removed from office as a mayor, mayor or president, may be able to influence his staff... 24 hours is probably enough to impose sanctions, conduct an interrogation. If the court examines this and upholds the prosecutor's request for sanctions, the subject will be resolved, and if it does not sustain it and considers that the conditions are too trivial to apply such drastic preventive measures, then the mayor, mayor or president will return to his duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wouldn't speak, but since my name has been mentioned here several times, I'm gonna have to sort of explain myself from what happened at committee meetings. But there are some things that need to be explained. I will try to use as little politics here as possible, because generally those who talk about not introducing politics are introducing it, in the next sentence. First line. I have heard here that the purpose of this revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a good intention, is to protect self-government, self-government as an institution. Yeah, but it's the other way around: it's the protection of self-government. In the committee's work, I was just trying to do something to actually achieve this goal of protecting self-government, which is simply to shorten the time limit within which a complaint against a prosecutor's decision to suspend the office of a governor or mayor is to be dealt with by the court. As it is in the case of a temporary arrest, let's assume that the ailment of both measures is similar But not to distinguish a group from the general public, but to do so. And you didn't accept it. Please note that in the print project 79 S are still distinguished by Deputy Mayors, Mayors, Mayors of the City and the Mayors themselves, Mayors and Mayors of the City. Well, what's really going on? Because if you're talking about self-government, about having a community host, then it should be that as soon as possible from this state, let's call it, uncertainty. Although I don't think it's insecure... But let's just say it's a state of uncertainty when there's only the D.A.'s resolution and there's already a complaint. And as soon as possible, we should get out of this state, which means the court should take a stand, in this case. That's the problem cloud. And you are still, in the second printing, 79 S, shutting down, throwing out a certain group of our citizens, who is not given immunity. You want to have... Well, maybe not. You want to set up immunity for the local government? That must be said clearly. And if this isn't about immunity, then government officials are supposed to be equal to the law, like everyone else. So do we, if we give up immunity. And that's often the case, because traffic violations are probably common. Which one of you didn't have a misdemeanor? Me. Well, there are ideals. Good. But I'm getting back to the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is very simple: what if they are in conflict with two constitutional values? I ask because here there are two constitutional values in conflict, one is a matter of protecting self-government, and the other is a question of equality before the law. Well, if the text of this project, let us assume, became the text of the law, it would be immediately challenged to the Constitutional Court and the Court would reject it immediately. The question is: can this goal of protecting self-government be achieved by other methods, not by playing in the criminal code, because this is the worst thing that is possible without creating a certain separate group of people who have different rights than all citizens? Of course, you can. I made this proposal at the committee meeting, and you rejected it. All right. And what other possibilities are there? Well, there you go, there's an article in the electoral code. 482. He regulates very specific cases, but we are also talking about special cases here. After all, it is not common for self-government officials to be deprived of the possibility to perform their duties or to pursue their profession. Well, this article tells us what happens when, first of all, there is no candidate for mayor, uncle, president, and second of all, there was one and did not receive more than half of the valid votes cast. Then the council of the municipality chooses such a man. There you go, why didn't you follow that path, obvious? That is, at the moment when the mayor, the mayor of the city, his deputy, cannot carry out his duties, the council of the municipality comes in and elects a person to replace them. That's how it's gonna be. Then what's the bill for? Then why break that code? Well, it will be. That's the first line. There's another way to do it. A Commissioner appointed by the central authorities may be, for example, Opiniond by the council of the municipality. That's possible, too. It's all up to you, it's up to the local government. But you guys I'm sorry, that's what I have to say. You're foaming through three committee meetings, it's already the second month, you're kicking out, I'm sorry, those doors that shouldn't be moved, and you have it in all your opinions, the Supreme Court and others, and I don't want to mention them here anymore, but in practically all opinions, of course, apart from the local circles, you're going on a short circuit that won't work. I would also like to say clearly to the local authorities: this law will not see the light of day, and if, God forbid, it sees, I think it will be challenged to the Constitutional Court and crushed by the Court. There are other ways to handle this case, but you don't want to use it, because it's not about catching a rabbit, it's about chasing a rabbit so you can pin a medal on it. Mr. Senator... I'm not talking about you, you're not a bunny, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that at first glance. After all, these wretched disbelievers meant that the court had considered the complaint for too long. That's the problem cloud. This would have to be dealt with if already and not by creating a select group of people who have different rights than all citizens. And that's basic. I'm not talking about legislative matters anymore. As you can see, paragraphs relating to suspension in business activities are inserted into the article. 250, where are we talking about a temporary arrest? It's literally squeaky, it's peas with cabbage. The suspension of duty is only mentioned in the article. 276, possibly, could be completed there. So that from a legislative point of view it is to be thrown out. But here's the thing: in this way, the conflict of 2 constitutional values will not be resolved. There is a much simpler way, closing only in the Local Government Act, which we would all agree to. No, you're doing it your way. Just to talk about it. This is how it's gonna end. Well, no, of course it'll end with a project. And what happens next, you can guess. And one last thing. Of some kind, I'd call it the lack of consistency of the projectors, as evidenced by the fact that what we're talking about applies to a small group, but this group is... I mean. it is indicated as those who were directly chosen. It's true. But their deputies were no longer directly elected and are also to be protected by this law. So let's do it this way. That's pretty much the simplest method. I don't know if she'd be effective. That is, at the moment when the deputy, the first deputy and the governor are subject to a decision to suspend their duties, and the case is slippery, let's call the next person... Yeah, who? Local government, municipal government. But he can do it. That's before, too. It's not like when it's on fire and we're digging a well. Can you do that? You can do that. In this way, the municipal government law can be supplemented. This is where you have to look for a solution to this problem. There are individual cases. If they are, then... here, here. Not in the criminal code. Because really, in this way, every next group will come forward and say: we are as important as the general government. The manager of a large company sometimes manages much more wealth than the mayor or the mayor. You can rank arguments here. We want to settle this matter in the wrong way without changing the criminal code, the criminal procedure code. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wouldn't have spoken if it hadn't been for a few serious misunderstandings, which, in my opinion, require clarification and presentation in the light of the right and especially concrete. Well, that's the first thing. I definitely want to say that we're not talking about immunity at all. He doesn't have that kind of clue. We do not operate in legislation that protects, like Members, Senators or President, a specific legal category, the category that has the name "immunity." That's one thing. Secondly, no one in this Chamber, including the rapporteur, claims that this is the ideal solution or the only solution. We even have some kind of agreement here that we need to look for solutions that will be adequate, appropriate in these circumstances. Maybe we can find a better one. But, interestingly, there have been many opinions in this Chamber that indicate that those who have a social mandate are elected in direct elections and are under-protected in today's circumstances. These examples, individual ones that fall, may not have to be considered the most fortunate, most accurate, most appropriate, but unfortunately appear. And it has to be remembered that when we started the local government 30 years ago, then it was very clear that the president's loss of office or the mayor's... was not elected directly, but was elected by the council of the municipality. It was more heavily protected because it was protected primarily by the necessity of a final judgment, i.e. simply a valid, valid one. Today we have another situation where we are talking about some impacts in which executive authority participates. And it can lead to weakening, closure, exclusion of characters, people with a strong social mandate. That's the point. That's what I'm talking about today. I do not take note of the information that appears, or the opinion that we are dealing with a few unfortunate entries, and therefore we are dealing with a legislative bubble. I mean. If this is a legislative bubel, then what we can say about the laws on COVID, about Shield 1.0, Shield 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and typing rules there, so to speak, on the cross, from various laws, in places not only not very fortunate, but Please pay attention to this. It's what they're called. The third element, very important, which I want to draw attention to. This is mostly what local government officials are talking about. We should strive for a courageous local government, not only for the strength of the local government's mandate, but for them not to be asecourants. The point is that they have the strength, the power, the ability to take risky actions when the municipality requires it. And yes, they should be held accountable for the deeds they will commit if they violate the laws, for they are equal. The president, the mayor, the governor, the marshal is equal to the citizen who works as the head of the company or on the railroad or in the construction industry. However, we must remember the consequences. And now another element, the fourth element. It doesn't matter what kind of property the mayor owns, I wouldn't compare it to a big company, and from time to time, it's a small commune's uncle... Rather, it is about the social impact of the mandate, for which a key concept Here, in this room, there is no trust. It must be borne in mind that the application of certain legal tools to public officials, which is an element of the state, undermines this element, which I am talking about, i.e. trust, on the basis of which every local government mandate is exercised. In this case, we must pay attention to the fact that, in short, we must protect this element, which is the source of professional life. That's what I'm paying attention to. This is the fourth, penultimate element. The last element of the adequacy. We need to remember that really expanding these functions not so much protective as for certain safety It may not be appropriate to replace et cetera. I share the opinion here. Maybe we need to narrow it down really tight. But there will be a chance, by submitting amendments here, now, there will be a chance to improve it also in the Seym. It'll be a possibility. What I am in favour of today is, first of all, not to underestimate any social mandate. Whether he's on the right side of the political scene, or on the left side, whether he's a mayor or an old man or a marshal, whether he's a president or a prime minister. It is important to bear in mind that each time the strength of this mandate is conditioned by authority, trust and at the same time by opportunity. So first of all, all of this, which means having a certain determination, courage, not seeking, in short, pure opportunistic activity, in which there will be a lack of courage in making very difficult decisions. In this matter, I would like to defend the self-governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna try a little less, and I'm not gonna name names. So, yeah, about one of the senators' earlier statements... Mr. Senator called not to play c.k.a., the penal code. And what we've been doing all day, really since this morning, like we haven't been playing c.k.? On the occasion of the act related, of course, to the COVID we spent almost half the day on gmerania just in the penal code. I've repeatedly said this isn't about gmerancing in k.k. To protect someone and create a privileged group, just... Maybe you're right that maybe we could've gone the other way. I'm not questioning it, it's a matter of talking and looking for the best solutions. But let me stress once again: we want to define the term "immediately." Today it is used for well-known purposes. You said... A senator in this room said that there were proposals that we rejected. After all, we talked about this and proposed: make amendments. After all, Senator Ambrozik wanted to go even further than we originally assumed, but then he withdrew. The senator in this room, who, well, criticized the gmeranian in k.k., did not make his proposal for a change that we would gladly lean over. We are here to solve the problem, not, as suggested by the Minister, to create a new political reality. No. I told you that the purpose we have is to protect the local government. And I would like to assure the senator in this Chamber that we are already prepared to go by the way you mentioned here, which is by way of a change in the local government law, in order for the Commissioner to choose the commune council, by reference to the laws that were cited today. And I hope that we can find a common language, that we can lean on it together. Another draft amendment to the Municipal Government Act will aim to ensure that, in some formula developed jointly, the municipal council appoints a Commissioner in the municipality or at least gives an opinion on a proposal that the voivode may present. That's what we're going to do. I will repeat once again, although I have said this repeatedly, that our intention was not to protect any professional group, in this case the local government, or to create some privileged group. The court's decision to apply such a drastic preventive measure in the case of municipal authorities has a huge impact. We wanted to protect ourselves from it. I hope that the Minister will reflect on his position that we will sit together again in the Sejm and, if amendments have to be tabled, we will make them. I will repeat for the last time: we are talking about defending the local government, not self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposal put forward? No. Thank you very much. In view of the fact that legislative proposals have been submitted, namely one proposal, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission, to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. I request that the committees be given a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act on bank loan interest payments to ensure the liquidity of operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and consider it as item 12 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In view of the lack of votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on aid for bank loans granted for the provision of liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19. The text of the law is contained in print No 142 and the report of the committee In print No 142 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the joint committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. This report shall be accompanied by proposals from a minority of committees. Report on the Law on bank loan interest subsidies adopted by the Sejm on 4 June 2020 to provide liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to our committees on 5 June 2020. We looked at this law yesterday, today, together our sitting had 3 parts, with breaks, so as to better analyse the provisions of this law and its consequences for citizens. After examining the bill, our committees request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. In this Annex We have tabled 100 amendments which recommend joint committees. The minority proposal includes 10 amendments which were not supported at the joint committee meeting. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we are discussing today is already the fourth law that regulates all kinds of issues related to the crisis caused by the COVID-19 epidemic. The Act, the title of which is the Act on bank loan interest subsidies granted to provide liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19, clearly indicates in the name that it should concern in total a relatively narrow piece of financial, credit, budgetary, economic matters, which are clearly linked to bank loans. Indeed, the first part of this law is devoted to this subject matter. Those things that this bill regulates, that's what the senators, the members of the joint committee... She cleans things up well, gives a lot of support to citizens and entrepreneurs. But in addition to this essential part, the law also regulates many other areas, I counted that this law is regulated by more than 50 laws, so it is extremely complicated matter. This is what we drew attention to at the committee meeting. The bill itself has 135 pages and according to most of the members of the joint committees, preparing this bill... Abstracting from all those provisions that actually serve citizens, businesses in all these economic rights issues, I would say that this law once again introduces various types of provisions which have no connection with the crisis caused by COVID-19 disease, we have repeatedly pointed to this. This relationship is sometimes very loose. Of course, ministers and government representatives tried to justify each of these provisions by some indirect, far-reaching link to the Coronavirus epidemic. This was not convincing for most Senators members of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, which is why wherever we thought the case had nothing to do with the fight against the coronavirus... As a majority of committees, we have decided that we are throwing all these records away without often denying their validity and the need to regulate a matter. But for us, for the members of the committee, the most shocking thing was that this law, which, as I say, concerns interest subsidies on bank loans granted to ensure the liquidity of traders affected by the effects of the COVID-19, introduced rules which concern changes in various codes, mainly in the Criminal Code. And these are changes that are not, to any extent, unrelated to the epidemic that we are talking about here. We pointed to it in a fundamental way. We do not deny the right of the parliament or government to present draft code changes, they have a clear right to do so. But according to the tradition and principles of creating changes in criminal codes or in other codes, this requires a special procedure, i.e. an appropriate procedure, which is widely recognised and recognised. The idea is to have specialists who know about these issues participate in the work on amendments to the Codes, and to have a wide public discussion, because the changes are really far-reaching and deep. Unfortunately, not such a way of proceding over the so-called. With shields, this law and the previous 3 laws took place. We've been paying attention. I personally and many senators have drawn attention to the fact that this is not acceptable to us as senators and, I think, to a large part of society, that it is simply working on codes, criminal laws, etc. should proceed in a completely different way, that it is such an elementary respect for lawmaking. I recall that the Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly repealed the provisions of the Act or the entire Act only because the procedure was not maintained, e.g. in the Senate, when an overzealous record was introduced, which was not discussed in the Sejm or had not properly passed three readings in the Sejm committees and later in plenary. Only for this reason did the Constitutional Tribunal repeal entire laws or only fragments, parts of laws. So today, with this law, as with previous laws in this area, this principle is generally violated. This is what we, the members of the joint committee, mostly do not understand and understand. And we don't agree to this kind of law-making. This disease is a transitional state, but the laws we make are established for many years. You'd want them to be established for decades. Even in this law we refer to the laws passed by the Polish Sejm before the war, in the 1930s. Those laws were good. This law in many parts is made in a chaotic, reckless, just messy way. I also noticed this. And there was a question. To what extent and to what extent the Government Legislative Centre worked on this law. The normal thing is that ideas come into the bill, some proposals from individual ministries, but the whole and coordination of this law and the elimination of various kinds of legislative errors are controlled by some institution, some body, some team. And this team is the Government Legislation Center. It's been taking care of these things for years. The Minister answered my question. so frivolously, but simply that the entire normal procedure, that the bill passes through the Government Legislative Center, was not. And the effect of this is quite grieving, because our Legislative Office, having little time to work on this law normally, has found several dozens and even more legislative errors. The vast majority of the amendments we have accepted and the government has accepted. What I'm trying to say is that we worked very well with the Minister of Development on this bill. There was a desire to explain everything one at a time. But I just don't think there should be such a way to work on this bill. Nor can it be that we make more than 100 amendments to this type of law, to which the work was carried out in such a hasty, thoughtless way. Of course, it can be said that some of them will be rejected in the Sejm, it is a normal matter and I agree with that, but the vast majority of these amendments, which we here as committees have adopted, first, was adopted unanimously, second, received the approval of the government. You could say it's a satisfaction for us senators. This is how we prepare the amendments, so we report them, that we can enjoy this bill. I would prefer that we in the Senate adopt a law without amendments so that we do not make any amendments so that the law is well prepared in legislative terms, well prepared and fully thought out in substance and can be adopted without amendments. This is the greatest satisfaction for Parliament to say: look, we have a functioning government, good legislative institutions and we can enjoy these laws. Of course, you can always make adjustments, it's a normal matter. We have already made a decision on this, we have prepared these amendments, but there will still be further amendments tabled now, although we wanted to actually complete the stage of all the proposals for amendments before we finish work in committees so that this is our final effect. Unfortunately, this did not work because there are still government proposals. I also sign some of them, I find that they are good, improving various kinds of solutions, but it should just look different. At the beginning of our meeting, the Minister said that this was probably the last shield, but at the end of the committee meeting, that is, during the third part of the sitting, he said that we were probably going to write the fifth shield... But you're spinning your head that it's not, which means it's over, closed case, final shield. Well, I'm not taking your word for it, and I'm not asking you to promise anything about it, because you never know what's gonna happen yet. But I think this way: if we look at the way in which in other countries parliaments and governments have worked on the problems associated with these safeguards in the event of a crisis, we will see that it was quite different there. If we look at the laws that have been passed even in the Czech Republic, or in our neighbours, I am no longer talking about Germany, we will find that this was a completely different procedure. So that's like, uh... in Germany, but also in the Czech Republic, it began with a law amending the budget, setting out the financial opportunities that a country can have to support everyone. It's been publicized, it's said that this is the best we can do. This can change because we can never predict the situation in crisis states to the end. But there should be a starting point in these matters, and it should actually work. And then a few laws that dealt with all kinds of cases. Speaking of this law, which I am presenting to you here, we also said that this law should be prepared at least in such a way as to clearly separate parts concerning loans, interest rates on bank loans, to separate these matters, as I say, unacceptable, code changes concerning local governments, social matters, etc. For this it took, let's say, an additional few days, perhaps even one day, to put this bill in order so that it was understandable, clear and transparent. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is already changing the provisions of the previous laws, i.e. those first 3 shields. So you can clearly see that there is just complete chaos here. This law, it seems so, unfortunately, is a combination of various ideas which were presented by individual ministers, attached, attached, attached and finally created a whole. It's really hard to tell. This is what we have pointed out in these previous legal acts, and we have asked that they be better, more transparent in this respect, not to introduce into those laws cases which are not related to the issue of Coronavirus, i.e. cases which come out of the Ministry of Justice. We can't understand that either. so to the end, why, on such important matters, the Minister of Justice is trying to push through its various legal proposals. We may disagree with them, you may insist on them, but conduct it in a normal and civilized manner so that it is simply clear and clear. The charge against these previous laws, in the case of this law probably will also be so, is that for an average citizen they are illegible and incomprehensible. Only if someone finds out where there's a specific record, they'll find these... Many records are vague, vague. This bill explains some things, it's true, but if you had worked hard and honestly on the records, it would have been much better. Please note how many situations such as that of citizens of the business community, but also e.g. Lawyers or solicitors ask for interpretation e.g. rules on support from the State Development Fund, voivodship labour offices, district labour offices, etc. These weaknesses in the bill are really very many. I hope this is the last act of such character. I ask the High House to accept the amendments that our committees have adopted. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u150	Thank you very much, Senator, for the thorough report of the committee. Oh, general very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present the conclusions of the minority committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We have decided to apply for a minority because, I think, a certain misunderstanding, which is often due to emotion or to the wrong, circumstantial assessment. For such an in-depth assessment, I would like to encourage all of you to reflect through this request of minorities. Well, at the committee's meeting, there was a really special thing, because very rarely the Senate removes entire chapters from the Seym law, whole big thematic blocks. It does not make any effort to correct the adopted rules and rejects a significant part of the law. This is what happened on issues that concern code regulation, code of offenses. The amendments I tabled, supported by the other senators of the members of the Law and Justice Club, presented a significant change in relation to what the Sejm adopted in its law. I will say more, these amendments that I tabled were in line with the expectations of the legal community, which led these votes here to the Senate. These voices were also heard in the Sejm during the committee's work. So it seemed to me that such changes that meet the expectations of the legal community, which take into account the voices that we also heard at the committee meeting... I thought these votes would be heard and these amendments would be accepted. They, I think, were not put to the vote at the emotional level at this meeting. It was assumed that en block would be deleted by the code rules contained in this law. I would encourage reflection, because the Sejm will have nothing to do but reject this deletion, which will be proposed by the majority of the Senate. Therefore, these good changes, which are in my proposals and which constitute a significant compromise, or perhaps otherwise, a substantial improvement of these provisions, will not be able to become a law. That is why we have tabled a minority proposal to give this reflection a chance to reconsider, without emotion, those issues which are included in these amendments. Perhaps there is time to consult, on the request of the General Bar Council, whose comments have been taken into account in these amendments or other legal backgrounds. Perhaps the senators of the majority of the committee need such a discussion and such advice. I encourage you to reconsider this issue and therefore the request of minorities. By taking advantage of the presence on the stand and encouraged by my colleague, Senator Kleina, to try to do as much as possible now, on the occasion of this shield, I would like to make a number of amendments. I'm handing them over to you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, Senator. These are amendments which, I hope, will help to make this law better. Of course, it can be said that there is an endless stream of amendments that come to the Senate, but we should actually enjoy it. We should be glad that the Senate improves, corrects the bill well, the good law of the parliament, that is, we improve the good, and maybe we do it better. I understand the position of my colleague president, who probably would like to have everything settled in one bill, in one shield, but to ask how many of these shields will be? 'Cause we're responding to our constituents here. The shields will be as long as they need to be. Let's not create artificial restrictions here. If it turns out something's been left out, some important solutions, then we should... We're here to take these good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I have a question for President Kleina. I mean... Well, there's one minute per million questions, we don't have a million minutes, so I'd like to ask you first about building law. The previous shields removed a rule that caused proper paralysis in putting buildings into service. Has this recipe been restored? I've heard there's going to be an amendment, but I see in the report that there's no... Therefore, maybe I will not ask that again, Mr President, but I will make an amendment. I would like to ask, however, whether there was an opinion of the Financial Supervision Committee on this whole package called credit vacations. And if so, what was the positive, negative, or neutral opinion? I ask, because these solutions, which seem very good, cause a lot of controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, we have asked the Financial Stability Committee to assess these provisions and, in general, the budgetary situation, the assessment of the provisions of this Act. We received answers from all members of the committee, i.e. from the Minister of Finance, from the Banking Guarantee Fund, from the National Bank of Poland, but these answers were unfortunately very general. The Financial Stability Committee met on 16 or 18 March this year, as the Minister of Finance informed us in his letter. I do not know if this had anything to do with my question made last week, whether it was really planned, but the last meeting of the Financial Stability Committee was held on Monday, 15 June. These issues that we have been asking about and the situation of the state budget in general were discussed, but after this meeting there was no conclusion, and always published, a position was presented. Well, the responses of individual individuals were such that... the main concerns were expressed in the letter of the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund, who sees certain problems related to the restructuring of these loans. These comments were not quite discrediting in this regard, but fear of bank stamina is understandable. The concern of all of us is that this system works well. But the formal response that the Financial Stability Committee should have given us, unfortunately, has not been received. It is possible that a communication after this Monday's meeting will be announced in the coming days.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. I am surprised, but I am pleased to conclude that no one else has asked questions, which allows me to move on to the next stage, i.e. to ask whether a representative of the Ministry of Development wishes to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government. Mr Marshal, let me say this: I would like to say a few things, but in the spirit of such, say, a laconic approach, while respecting your time frame After all, we talked about this at the committee meeting for a long time. I will give up the opportunity to speak. If there are questions, of course we will not run away from them, although I understand that the matter of time is important here. Thank you very much, Minister. I appreciate your statement on the quickness of the speech. Moreover, it was actually a quick talk. At present, however, senators can report from an ongoing location, which I stress. No more than one minute of questioning to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, please tell me whether after May 25th you are paid welfare benefits for parents of children under the age of eight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u159	Excuse me, I have to use the backup... I get it. Sure. The answer is yes, under the Regulation after 25 May, such allowances are paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u160	Thank you, Minister. Senator, you're welcome. Additional question, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u161	No, I repeat, are these benefits paid? I know that applications are being accepted, but I don't understand on what basis legal welfare benefits would be paid to parents of children under the age of 8, since Shield 3.0 didn't provide care benefits for children under the age of eight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u162	Thank you, Senator. As I understand it, the Minister is now consulting on this matter. In this respect, we will give the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u163	Excuse me, I had to ask. Well, I received a declaration here that the ZUS will certainly carry out these payments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u164	Senator, I understand she's not satisfied.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u165	Is he going to do it or is he going to do it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u166	Minister, I would like to remind you that you are a representative of the government in this matter, and that being a minister, secretary or undersecretary of state involves certain privileges, but you must also take responsibility for the words that you speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u167	That is correct, but remember, Mr. Marshal, that at the time these previous laws, commonly called shields, were dealt with, however, we enjoyed such a privilege that it was the individual ministers who answered the questions. You've often asked questions, for example. Minister Buk or Minister Swede. I'm just a little...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u168	But, Minister, I do not have any... more than that, I do not make you a charge, on the contrary, I consider it a show of respect for our House that you wish to give us true and substantive information. That's why I'm not pressing you, I'm saying we're giving you time to consult, but that's what we're asking you, and we'd like you to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u169	Now I'm gonna say those words here on purpose. I've asked them twice to be repeated. Well, we have the assurance from the Social Security Office that we do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u170	Thank you very much. Senator? I understand we have no further questions. No, I have a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u171	Then I ask the Minister to be kind... That's the fourth question, Senator. Yes. ...Give me the legal basis, the rule under which, as the Minister says, the Social Security Office pays welfare allowances to parents of children under the age of eight after 25 May. Today, the Minister assures us that there are such benefits...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u172	Minister, if you want to delegate someone to answer that question, go ahead. If you want... Because I don't want it to look like we're bothering you here. The case is very important and the senator has every reason to ask. But if you think that you can delegate someone to answer that question, please point out this person. Yes. Then please...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u173	I'm answering the senator's question. After 25 May, we have the basis for a regulation. And we have the assurance of the U.S.S.A. that as far as possible... Of course, there have been a lot of these proposals, but they are being implemented as far as possible. It's like...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u174	Senator, that's one question. Both your questions and your answers are in the record. Whatever you want to do about it, you can do it. All the more reason... Well, I wouldn't want us to keep asking... Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. But I'm gonna ask you to answer my question... In writing? Yes, in writing. Of course, Senator. Great. The Minister has committed himself to replying in writing to Senator Ewa Matecka. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm going to take advantage of this privilege of the coronavirus that I can speak from here. I won't have to transfer there. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'd like a word of polemicism with Senator Bierecki. Are you Senator Bierecki? Yes, but it seems that not only does he not listen to your senator, but also basically... But there's gonna be a transcript, so I hope... But I'm listening... ...Senator Bierecki will be familiar with the transcript. He talks, but he listens. I want to say yes... But together with Senator Kleina, they have a cross-party interference with the proceedings. I see. But I think I can now, I understand? Now, Mr. Senator, you're welcome. Thank you very much. I would like to say this: Mr. Senator Bierecki, whom we very much like and know for many years, made such a remark at the committee meeting that, apparently, Marshal Grodzki did not refer this bill to all the committees to which he should direct it, and that the fact that there were certain perturbations in the procedure of this law was due to the fact that this law was addressed to an insufficient number of committees. Well, I would like to say that this bill has such a structure, that if Marshal Grodzki wanted to meet the expectations of Senator Bierecki, he would either have to refer this bill to all the committees we have in the Senate, or he would have to set up one large committee, consisting essentially of all the senators. I'm talking about this because I want to point out the design of this piece of legislation. There is basically everything there, although the title of this law speaks of financial aid in the era of the pandemic of Coronavirus. We have different solutions there, for example. criminal law, civil law, etc., etc. It is not good practice to make such a bill a kind of sack into which you put everything that comes to mind and which Ministry will come to mind. That's line one. The second question is that it's Shield 4.0. There is a lot of talk in public space, especially in the media favorable to the government majority, about how well we deal with the coronavirus. I'm not saying we're dealing badly, but on this occasion, it's worth saying that there are countries. E.g. often skeptically assessed by the majority of government Germany They may have taken it a little later, maybe they wondered about it longer, but it was done by a single act. And it seems to me that this way of proceding is the right way. It's like the first reflection in my speech. The next question is: I would like to thank you for accepting all the amendments that we tabled as a circle of PSL and which have been accepted. I am thinking here of the question that, as I am going to say, details and clarification of the possibility of opening catering facilities in shopping malls. The Minister was talking about this explanation, Clarification... But thank you very much for the government's support for this Clarification. I am also pleased that the possibility for water companies to use all these support instruments, which, I say, these laws offer, has been welcomed in the committee. In addition, together with Senator Bierecki, we tabled an amendment on the possibility of extending the term of office to cooperative bodies. I am pleased that this amendment has also gained cross-party acceptance of the combined High Commissions. Now I want to talk about one issue that has been the subject of a certain controversy. The subject of this controversy was the possibility of selling alcohol online. Let me get this straight. We are dealing with the situation that we have had, or even now, a number of restrictions on the use of catering facilities. The only way these premises can function is by ordering meals online. It also seems natural that someone might want to order a beer or wine for such a meal online. Although I am an abstinent, I think others should have that right. In order to eliminate all these doubts, we have modified our amendment, which did not have a majority at the joint committee meeting. We modified it in 2 points: first, it concerns alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of up to 18% So we're not talking about high-interest alcohol here. Secondly, we are talking about the possibility of micro-enterprises or small or medium-sized enterprises selling this. The point is to exclude large commercial networks from this. We have been conducting some consultations since the committee meeting and hopefully we will have a majority this time. We'll be able to convince Senator Kleina, who nods his head, but maybe others will. I'd like to thank all those other circles and clubs. Not of our own, because the fact that we signed off on it, it's pretty obvious... I would like to thank Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, Senator Gromek and Senator Tyszkiewicz for supporting this amendment with their signatures. I would also like to ask that you not necessarily sign, but with your vote tomorrow. And in the committee, and in the plenary session, they made this amendment receive support because I am convinced that it is at a difficult time for many restaurants, so to speak, appropriate support. And I hereby make this amendment, asking the secretariat to come to me, and I will pass it on. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski... I've been replaced... Please, Senator Bierecki ad vocem, I understand. Yes. In ad vocem mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u177	Thank you very much. I've been replaced, so I have to respond. Of course, I understand perfectly the problem before which you faced Marshal Grodzki, deciding which committees to deal with this bill. He chose these three committees, and I did not protest against the fact that these three committees were the ones he chose. I pointed out that this was the marshal's authority to make such a decision. And I think that the Senators of the Civic Platform, who raised the problem of the committee's inadequacy that dealt with it, should actually have addressed this request to Marshal Grodzki. However, I believe that the proposal would be unreasonable. These three committees, as you can see, have done their job. The senators worked diligently on the bill, we've prepared 140 amendments, haven't we? So you can see that a huge job has been put in. Each of the senators has the right to speak on this law, to participate. So it was totally... My attention served to point out the impropriety of Marshal Grodzki's attack by the senators who elected him. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I could repeat my speech today about the second or third law on coronavirus as regards the quality of the law. We have a repeat of the entertainment, a situation in which the legislative shortcomings of the bill provided to us are simply gross. And I say it with regret, watching our guests too. We rarely have such a large delegation of government, and this is a testimony as to how extensive this law is and how many different laws and laws apply. And also how carelessly this issue, an important issue, has been dealt with, from the legislative side. It is worth mentioning that the legislative amendments themselves have taken up 46 pages of our Legislative Office. This demonstrates the quality of the legislation, the proposed document, and the scale of the difficulties for ladies and gentlemen of the senators, in order to improve this bill, in short. This effort was made and the Legislative Office should be thanked. Because it's, like I said, the fourth law with such a high degree of difficulty. And I have to say, our Legal Office is doing great. Which brings no glory to the Sejm and in this case Also a government team. What are we changing? I'm not just looking at legislators, but at us senators? Well, almost everything in this legislative matter. We change terms, change adjectives, change definitions and concepts, the ones that are legally related. We also change procedures, including the elements of procedures that include judicial proceedings. We change the definition, for example. income decline. We introduce additions to know what the specific provision concerns. It is simply that, in some cases, we are dealing with a situation where the recipe is unfinished. In many cases, unfortunately, we need to clarify not only the definitions, but the rules themselves, so that whoever will be the recipient And the recipient of the law is a citizen, he knew that the provision in question applies so and so that either it concerns him or him or, in short, it does not apply. We change appeal modes, we change complaint modes, we eliminate many concepts that are still concepts of Marxism: work centers, etc., etc. We also change the powers of organs. In many cases I would like to stress: in many cases The government, the government's representatives accept the changes that we make to the law that left the Sejm not last year, just a few days ago. This is one very important thing. Two. We will support this project, we will not work on our own, and there have been such ideas, mainly because to shorten the time limits for obtaining certain powers and legal bases by those who are to be beneficiaries, they are to be, in some sense, recipients of records that are necessary to respond efficiently to the pandemic situation, especially in the area of economic activity. I'm going to highlight four elements that bothered me very much, bothered us, the senators. The first is this legislative mess I've already told you about, so I'm not going to refer to it. The second point is, unfortunately, late for a number of provisions, especially those relating to local authorities. There are powers dedicated just to local authorities, e.g. so that they can lower their rents or cancel rents, lease fees, and so that they can suspend for a period of 3 months various local taxes, local taxes. This is very late. We suggested that local governments be entitled to this, already 2 months ago, and this project is in mid-June, extremely late. I stress that many, many of those who operate in different locations, places, would be happy to benefit from various privileges, but unfortunately local government officials were afraid that without the right legal basis, giving various reliefs could result in very serious consequences, simply the charge of mismanagement. There are a number of provisions that required adjustments, mainly because they should not be anti-EU, so that they do not conflict with certain EU directives. This has been de facto successful and we can say that tomorrow we will debate a bit more calmly and in particular vote on specific projects. What arouses our permanent opposition, also in this case, are the outcasts to the COVID Act, a law that is supposed to respond to the pandemic situation, things that are completely incompatible with the matter of this law. That's what we've been paying attention to many, many times. And one last thing. There are changes to the labour code rules, various powers to reduce working time, to pass on to employees decisions on the necessary leave. We have tried to improve all of this, and we guarantee protection of a minimum of 50 per cent of working time, and we have amended a few provisions that will condition certain decisions in a specific situation, including defining them. I hope that, as a result of these more than 100 amendments, this law will gain this better life from the point of view of legislative quality, but also social impact. Speaking of my colleague, Kazimierz Kleina, I'm not waiting for another fifth shield. I believe it is time to return to normal legislation, in which we will respond to a specific situation in the relevant laws, in the relevant legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Bierecki, five minutes... This is the first time I've spoken. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, first time... I'm so sorry. ...though I may seem like I've already told you. It's not in this mode. Yes. I misjudged the two roles you played today. Yeah, yeah, it's not in this mode. I'm so sorry. Of course you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u181	I might start by saying that good ideas are worth taking advantage of when they appear, so if, in the event of a crisis, while thinking about regulations that are supposed to protect our homeland from the effects of this pandemic, there are good ideas, it is worth using them and it is worth introducing them into laws, even though it seems that they are not so closely related to this issue. But they're needed and they're good. So it's worth accepting these good ideas. Hence, I disagree with my previous speakers who would like to be purists of law in the event of a pandemic. There is time for legal purism, there is time for waiting or building comprehensive laws, but this time is not now. Now we are fighting a pandemic, we are fighting the consequences of a global crisis that no one expected, an unexpected crisis whose scale is difficult to estimate, but we know that it is a great crisis. That's why there are more... that the government is making an effort to present to Parliament further laws, other good regulations, that the staff of people are working, that there is communication with business organisations, employees' organisations, employers, that we have good ideas that come from many places and we use these good ideas, that is, It's a good thing, not a bad thing. But we shouldn't... even the opposition of this scale shouldn't criticize the government for trying so hard. I asked for the floor to remind you, in fact, what this bill is doing, because in this debate it did not sound like it. The problem that... When I sat and listened to the speeches, it seemed to me that the previous speakers were the trees of the forest. You see the details, you see the problem, the fact that there's too much regulation, that they're complicated, that they come quickly, that we have to work so hard. Nobody said what's in this bill, what's good we're giving people in this bill. Well, maybe I'll remind you a little bit about what this bill gives you. Well, the law introduces subsidies to the percentage of loans to companies. It's a very important matter. A huge benefit that will benefit hundreds of thousands of companies in Poland. These are small subsidies, which are a burden on public finances, but they are certainly well spent money, well spent money. These loan subsidies are a good tool to counter the economic effects of the pandemic. Finally, facilitation of public procurement tenders. When there is a sudden, difficult situation, these tenders cannot go on indefinitely, they cannot be subject to protest, we cannot wait years for these tenders to be settled. This must be implemented quickly because we want to ensure the speed of economic turnover, so important for the recovery of our economy to a pre-pandemic state. Provisions protecting Polish companies from hostile acquisitions by investors from outside the European Union. This is a very important part of this regulation. Our weakened companies cannot become an easy prey for investors from outside the European Union who would like to benefit from and access our lucrative market, as well as our know-how, which Polish companies have. This protection is a good solution, and none of us are questioning it. I'm just talking about it to remind you what this bill is about. Finally, labour market solutions that make this market more flexible. Thanks to this flexibility you will be able to preserve, protect jobs and give opportunities for entrepreneurs to develop, a chance to bounce out of this difficult... from the hole we fell into because of the closure of our economy. That is what this bill is about, and I think those who listen to us should remember that the Senate of the Republic adopts such regulations. The Senate of the Republic should not be seen as a group of people who complain about the fact that there are a lot of regulations and a lot of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you... You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u183	I don't want to waste any time. I want to make it clear that in my speech I saw not only trees, but also forests, emphasising the powers of self-government, speaking of lateness. And I'm going to draw attention to that, a little bit of argument-- Mr. Senator said first, it's credit subsidies, and then it's interest payments. Of course, these are interest subsidies, not loans. I will immediately draw attention to the fact that there are very many limitations or conditions in these regulations that must be fulfilled for these loans to be fulfilled. What I want to draw attention to and what is most important is the fact that in many cases these forms of assistance are simply late. We still react post factum in situations where those who are to be recipients of help are simply economically dead. I'll also pay attention to one more thing. I really want to appreciate the powers that are now passed on to local governments. Good. However, please note that the powers of local authorities to exempt from taxes, charges, various things do not go to compensation. It means that local governments have to do all of this at the expense of their own budget. I pay attention to this because there will be a moment when we will have to help these local governments, and the scale of this assistance is now being estimated more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I also inform you that the following senators have made their speeches to the minutes: Janusz Pęcherz, Mariusz Gromko, Danuta Jazłowiecka and Benjamin Godyla. The following senators have tabled legislative proposals: a group of senators, as well as Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Jan Filip Libicki and a group of senators. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... I'm sorry. I also have a question for the government representative if he would like to take the floor. I'm kind of in the same spirit as before. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare... Messages. Messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u185	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Communication on the committee meeting. A joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration will be held today on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws. This committee meeting will take place 15 minutes after the adjournment in room 176. The following committee meetings will be held tomorrow. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the requests submitted at the 12th Senate meeting to the Solidarity Supplement Act granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19, will take place tomorrow, 18 June at 8.00 in the Senate Plenary Room. The next meeting, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted at the 12th meeting of the Senate to the Act on bank loan interest subsidies to provide liquidity to operators affected by the effects of the COVID-19, will also be held tomorrow at 8.15 p.m. in the plenary room. One more announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 12th Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, Senate Print No 79, will also be held tomorrow at 8.00 in room No 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-17-senat-12-1.u186	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Impossible. Possibly. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 30]]
