ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last night, an unprecedented request was made to change the way we vote on the budget. A motion to be decided not only on this... But you didn't protest. ...that we will not be able to vote on individual amendments, but also on politicising the most important vote of the year. You have led to a situation where a school in Podkarpacie, a kindergarten in Zachodniopomorskie, a hospital in Podlaskie, and every investment in the whole country that the Members have reported, are to be put in a bag that you will support, because it is yours, or you will reject, because it is an opposition. There is no agreement for us to treat the amendments to the state budget as a tool because you simply do not want to work any longer. These few hundred votes give the chance that people from counties, voivodships and communes will know that we are fighting for their interests, but we also give them a chance to get through these amendments. You'd rather deal with a matter that's a social interest within ten minutes. Get out of this. Your Marshal, this break may be a chance for Law and Justice to withdraw the proposal, which today gives the chance that you will be working briefly, but Polish municipalities, Polish local governments will lose the right to live decently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u2	Thank you, sir. Firstly, yesterday was the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention and I did not hear the comments you are making today. That's one thing. Second... That's not true. ...two... That's not true. ...is a motion that didn't come through at night. Thirdly, this is a proposal in accordance with the rules of procedure, Mr President. I understand it was a recess request. Yeah, it's a break. But also Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition, a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I submit a formal request for adjournment until tomorrow in connection with this shameful request which was submitted by the PiS club. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to give you a heads-up today. We all remember 2016, we all remember what you did in the column room. We all remember how you wanted democracy to die. There's absolutely no consent for that. [[Applause]] Today, Marshal Kuchciński sits there. I would also like to address your marshal directly and remind you where Marshal Kuchciński is today and how he ended up after what was done in the column room. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, voting on the budget, submitting amendments is a sacred right of Members, a sacred right of each of us, because our mandate in this House is simply equal. It's like at home - everyone has the right to vote on budgetary amendments. And from this point on, I want to be very clear: this is not the PiS budget, this is the state budget. If we're going to sit here for 30 hours and vote, that's very good, because we're going to vote on the most important things. [[Applause]] Poland: on the [[♪ The bell ♪]] public television funding... Thank you, sir. ...the PiS savage, about financing Polish health. Your Marshal, please, one sentence. Time. Thank you, sir. Really, do you see it that I'm glued to this place? I really don't. Then don't scare me. Secondly, thank you very much, sir. Request for a recess... Your marshal, your marshal, one sentence. That's it. You want to avoid discussing the most important issue for Poles. That's enough. I ask that you withdraw from this disgraceful request immediately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u4	Thank you, sir. Again, there was no such outrage. The application shall be made in accordance with the rules of procedure. The outrage is also in accordance with the regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of point one... Oh, I'm so sorry. There was a request for interruption, and I will therefore put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 217 for, 234 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 842). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 842, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 436 - for, 6 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law on promoting electricity generation in offshore wind farms (prints Nos 809 and 835) - continuation. At its 23rd meeting, the Sejm listened to the committee's report and held a discussion during which amendments were tabled and a request for a third reading without referring the draft law to the committee. A summary of the amendments was delivered to print No 835. First of all, we will proceed to the vote on the proposal to move to the third reading of the bill without referring the bill back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has submitted a draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to submit an additional report. We proceed to the vote on the proposal to move to third reading without referring the bill back to committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to join the third reading of the draft print bill No 835 without referring to the committee will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 357 - for, 86 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 835. In the first place, I will put the draft amendment tabled at second reading to the vote. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 58. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 437 - for, 3 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose a new wording of the joint part. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 437 - for, 1 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 112. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. Amendments 4 to 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 3 to 8 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 435 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 835, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 443 - for, 1 - against, holding down 6. The Sejm passed a law on promoting electricity generation in offshore wind farms. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and some other laws (prints No. 828, 828-A, 836 and 836-A) - third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 836-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints Nos 828 and 828-A. The Sejm at its 23rd meeting on 16 December in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 836 to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. 36 amendments were tabled. After analysing all and after the votes, the Committee on Public Finance asks the High House to accept 14 amendments and proposals to these points, and 22 recommends rejecting them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u6	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 836. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a different wording to the first link. Amendments 28 and 36 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 28 and 36 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 441 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 86 - for, 356 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 6a. Amendments 3, 4, 7 to 11 and 18 to 22 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 2, 3, 4, 7 to 11 and 18 to 22 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 162 - for, 234 - against, 57 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 82 for, 357 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point after point 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 438 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 450 for, 1 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment and the same 3rd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment and the 3rd minority proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, 234 - against, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 11. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 53 - for, against - 341, 56 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point after point 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 205 - for, 245 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording in point. a and b in point 21. This amendment is combined with the 15th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 14 and 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 162 for, 289 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to point 24. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 208 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to point 24. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 447 for, 5 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete points 27 and 31. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 174 - for, 234 - against, 46 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 30. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 447 - for, against - 4, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1a and Article 1a 1b. Amendment 33 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 24 and 33 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 210 for, 233 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 3. Amendments 27 and 34 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 25, 27 and 34 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 451 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 26th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 6a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 166 - for, 235 - against, 51. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. 10 applicants propose to add point 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 209 - for, 235 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 30th amendment to the article. 13 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 18. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 441 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 31st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 18a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 409 - for, no one was against, 46 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 26. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 455 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the article. 38 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 438 - for, 1 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 836, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, 17 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law on strategic reserves (prints No. 829 and 839) - continuation. At its 23rd meeting, the Sejm listened to the committee's report and held a discussion during which a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety was submitted, amendments and a request for a third reading without referring the draft law back to the committee. A summary of the amendments was delivered to print No 839. First of all, we will proceed to the vote on the proposal to move to the third reading of the bill without referring the bill back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has submitted a draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to submit an additional report. We proceed to the vote on the proposal to move to third reading without referring the bill back to committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to join the third reading of the draft print law No 839 without referring to the committee will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 239 - for, 209 - against, abstained from 6. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 839. First of all, I will put to the vote the second reading motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. If it is rejected, we will vote on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection in full of the draft Print Act No. 839 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 165 - for, 236 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 13. 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 222 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, against - 233, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 18 The applicant shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 222 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 29 The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 224 - for, 231 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 85a of the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce the regulatory burden of the applicant proposes to give a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 217 - for, against - 232, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 839 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. For - 239, 164 - against, 53 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on strategic reserves. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2021 (prints Nos 640, 785 and 785-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u7	Dear Marshal! On 15 December, at the second reading of the draft budget law, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club submitted a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety. This proposal, the Public Finance Committee, has given a negative opinion and recommends rejecting this proposal. Three amendments were also tabled concerning the textual part of the Act and 276 amendments to the annexes, i.e. the tabular part. One of these amendments was withdrawn during the procedure by the applicants. As far as the work on these amendments is concerned, yesterday, the committee worked on these amendments all day long, and Members were given the opportunity to justify these amendments briefly. As a result of this work, the Committee on Public Finance recommends that 17 amendments be adopted, while 261 amendments are proposed to be rejected. It is also worth mentioning the first reading and work of the committee at the first reading of the draft budget law, because 715 amendments were tabled during the committee's work. The Commission worked for a full 2 days on these 715 amendments. Of course, some of them were accepted, some were rejected, but the vast majority of the rejected amendments, i.e. the 602 amendments, were reported as minority proposals. Of course, I take it as an attempt to destroy parliamentary work, because why report... [[Applause]] And how many amendments have you made? It's called obstruction. ...why submit more than 600 minority proposals... It's called obstruction. ...when they were already discussed during the committee's work. By the way, Mr Gawkowski, these conclusions were mostly related to the proverbial saying: school in Podkarpacie. According to the Legal Bureau, such amendments are unlawful because they concern the tasks of the municipalities themselves. The funding of municipalities can be based on the principle of supporting government programs... Money for your communities. ...and they are, of course. However, this cannot be treated in such a way that each task of the municipality will be recorded within a separate reserve of the state budget and such requests have been submitted. So even if they did, they'd still be dead in the budget bill. Of course, it is quite different in the case of proposals concerning, for example: road construction or something else. These are the tasks of the state budget. However, this must not include the tasks of local governments. So in the vast majority of these amendments, these minority proposals would actually be fictional. I therefore propose that we vote together on the proposals of minorities and the amendments for which the Finance Committee has issued a negative opinion and together vote on the amendments for which the Finance Committee has given a positive opinion. This is a request for a change in the way the vote is conducted... Objection. Objection. ...to avoid farce, because what was done during the committee's work... I think that the committee has worked very closely for many, many days not to sit here for a few days on a parliamentary basis. Obstruction... Because the vote on all minority proposals and amendments, as I pointed out... What doesn't work? And this is a job? For most proposals, it is not even realistic to introduce them and repeat them. Therefore, Your Marshal, this is my motion. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] 2 billion for TVP.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u8	Thank you, sir. It's against the law. Here you are, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition, with the opposite proposal. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm filing a counterclaim on behalf of the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, you're introducing 10 new taxes, 10 more taxes... Oh... Liars. ...you're increasing your TVPiS radio-television subscription. These are things you don't want to talk about. As the only country in Europe, you do not want to increase your expenditure on health care during the pandemic period. That's what you don't want to talk about. Down with the commune! But for the sake of logic, if there are two amendments - your Marshal I would ask for a moment to present this - one amendment concerns a reduction in national defence expenditure by PLN 20 billion, I disagree with this amendment, the second amendment aims to ensure that 2 billion PLN is intended for health instead of TVPiS... There's no such amendment. ...your marshal does this: these two cards connect - and I am to vote in favour of this package. And how should the Member vote according to his conscience if, in the case of one amendment, he wishes to vote in favour and, in the case of the other, against? [[Applause]] This is contrary to any logic, Your Marshal and the ladies and gentlemen. And that's our right so we can [[♪ The bell ♪]] vote and choose the amendments that are important to us. If your marshal will allow, one very important piece of information. You have to have a conscience. Mrs. Marshal! One piece of information that's very important. I think some people will be particularly interested in that. Ladies and gentlemen, two of our fellow Members were urgently called to the prosecutor's office yesterday on Jack Sasina's packages. The D.A. has informed us that the hearing is urgent and that the order came from the very top. So if someone was wondering why there is no resignation from Minister Kowalski, we already know. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, this is no longer within the scope of the formal proposal. I inform you that a formal application has been made pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. Paragraph 3 (9) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to amend the vote by a joint vote on the amendments approved by the committee, as well as the joint vote on the amendments negative and minority proposals. Resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm No 45 of 16 December 2016 on the interpretation of the Rule. Paragraph 184. The third paragraph of paragraph 9 of the Sejm Regulation is as follows: The change in vote may also consist of a total vote of amendments on the basis of requests for acceptance or rejection made by committees in an additional report, and minority proposals in the committee report should also be considered as amendments to the rejection request. This means that the proposal complies with the formal requirements and is subject to resolution by the Sejm. We are voting on this proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting a formal request to change the way in which the vote is conducted, as interpreted in Sejm 45's resolution, will want to press the button. Thieves. Look in the mirror. Who was it to, sir? Who was it for? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Are you talking about yourself? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] For a ventilator dealer, for example. Calm down, please. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at least before Christmas, let's all keep a little restraint. We just did. I am directing this attention to all of you - to all of you. Just don't steal. I think if someone got hurt, they felt it in person. 457 Members voted. 236 - for, 218 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm's formal motion has been accepted. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 785. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as an additional report on the rejection of the law in its entirety and on the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Your Marshal, we want to justify your request. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, will press the button... Your marshal, your voice to the whole, your substantive voice to the whole. But we're talking about the budget. Ladies and gentlemen... Have a seat, sir, please. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. But what are you doing? We are talking about the Polish country. If you are in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, you will want to press the button. Your Marshal... Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, a substantial vote for the budget. There was a discussion yesterday. Thieves! You've sentenced to death... the plenary room, we're talking about the Polish state, about the whole year. Stop lying. Thieves! But Iza Leszczyn... a substantial vote for the budget. I use the rules of procedure, sir, really. What's the point, really? Your marshal, a substantial vote for the budget on the whole, please. Your marshal, please. I would like to ask you very much, sir. Marshal, I'm serious. Substantive vote to the entire budget. Even the finance minister isn't at the vote? What are you and Poland doing? We're saving from you. There's nothing to laugh about. [[Game in the O.R.]] ...Mrs. Pomaska, do you remember what this was? ...about Amber Gold? Are you talking to me? I'll meet you in court. I'll meet you in court. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. I would really like to ask all of you for restraint. You're welcome. Or you can come out and apologize to me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome. Why are you calling Semy when a Member cannot appear as a speaker? Why would the Sejm, if a Member can't get on the stand? Marshal, maybe it's enough just to let you speak... Please sit down, sir. 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 235 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are now moving, in line with the Sejm's decision, to a joint vote on the amendments recommended by the committee for adoption. These are amendments 3, 108, 109, 165, 170 to 172, 216, 217, 269, 271, 272 and 274 to 278. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 1 and 2 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 3, 108, 109, 165, 170 to 172, 216, 217, 269, 271, 272 and 274 to 278, will press the button. Your Marshal, what's in these amendments? [[Game in the O.R.]] You've tabled these amendments, you should know. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal, I would very much like to speak before the entire vote on the budget. Marshal, I would ask you to vote on the entire budget. There'll be no need for a fuss. We want to speak on the whole budget. This is a minimum minimorum, Your Marshal. Please. Okay? But can I say it's okay? Your Marshal, one vote on the budget. It's not like it's anything out of the ordinary. But it is because of such a dampening of this debate that the problem is about to arise. There are 700 amendments tabled, and we have one minute to speak? Everything in accordance with the rules of procedure, really, sir. Your Marshal, I can't... I can't correct myself. What do you want me to do? Mr... One minute for the club on the whole, on behalf of the club, please, on behalf of 134 parliamentarians. Your Marshal... Is that okay, Marshal? You're welcome. Have a seat. You're welcome. I ask for one vote on the entire budget. Have a seat. Your marshal, there are 134 parliamentarians who could... resumptuously. We need a motion... Do you want a resummation? 451 Members voted. 233 - for, 206 - against, abstained 12. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In minority applications from 1 to 602, and in amendments 4 to 107, from 110 to 164, from 166 to 169, from 173 to 215, from 218 to 268, 270 and 273, applicants propose amendments to the bill and annexes. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1 to 602 and amendments from 4 to 107, from 110 to 164, from 166 to 169, from 173 to 215, from 218 to 268, 270 and 273, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 205 - for, 235 - against, abstained 12. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Your Marshal, I've filed a motion... There are 30 signatures. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 785, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. There's a formal request for reconnaissance. Your motion, please. But I wanted to justify it. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Let's not vote. There's a request signed by 30 people for feedback. 455 Members voted. For-- 234, 220-- against, one held back. The Sejm has passed a budget law for 2021. [[Applause]] Scandal! Disgraceful! The adoption of certain amendments will result in appropriate amendments to other provisions and annexes to the Budget Law. The Member has submitted a request for the resummation of the vote. There will be no justification. In accordance with the regulations, I ask the Senior Convention to meet in five minutes. But why without justification? The Senior Convention will decide whether the vote is needed. But I want to justify it. Okay, Member, here you go, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Coalition and Left Club, I submit a motion for a resummation of the vote. The budgetary debate was once the most important debate in the Sejm. We discussed what Poland was going to be like at the time. You destroyed the state debate, just like you destroyed the state. All that's left is your party business and your private business. [[Applause]] This is the budget for 2021. In this budget, PiS condemns thousands of people with cancer and heart disease to death. Stop lying. People are gonna rain like flies, just like they did this year, because during the pandemic, you save on health care. Liars. It's more important to have propaganda, to dig up Vistula and your megalomaniac ideas. Meanwhile, thousands of Poles and Poles die every day. You guys are guilty. Why are you lying? Because of you. You guys took people out on the streets. Because of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm managing a five-minute break. Senior Convention to the living room, please. We'll have a briefing in five minutes. One Member has come forward to make a statement. If any of you want to join the list, please. I'm asking you not to split up. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 a.m. 11 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, the Convention has gathered. The point was that one member of the Civic Coalition could not vote, but the difference in votes was so big that there would be no resummation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda items scheduled for 17 December. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you right away: we are still waiting for the laws that will come from the Senate, perhaps they will be today, therefore, at the end of this sitting, there will be an adjournment until today. 19. Eventually, if these laws don't come, we're gonna move this break, okay? I now invite Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice, who has made a statement. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 39 years ago there was a bloody pacification of the protest in the Coal Mine of Stone Uncle in Katowice. The protest of the miners was a gesture of support for the arrested Jan Ludwiczak, the chairman of the "Solidarity" mine. The protest began on 14 December. The control of the miners was of strategic importance to the communist authorities and the success of the martial law was dependent on it. The decision to use force was taken on 15 December, during a meeting of the Regional Defence Committee. Nearly 1500 Citizen Militia and ZOMO officers and 760 soldiers with 22 tanks and 44 combat vehicles were sent to the mine. 16 December at 3 p.m. 12.30, after the area of KWK Wujek through the militia, a special platoon of ZOMO entered the action, which shot six miners. Three died of injuries. The pacification showed the true face of the Communists, and its brutal nature caused opposition activists who were not interned at the beginning of the martial law to change the concept of fighting the regime. The premeditation of the then power clearly indicates the nature of the gunshot wounds: the abdomen, the skull, the chest. Nine miners were killed as a result of the pacification and 20 were injured. Neither Wojciech Jaruzelski, headed by the Military Council of National Rescue, nor Czesław Kiszczak were held responsible. The only punishment was for Romuald Cieślak, the commander of the Special Platoon of the ZOMO, who was sentenced to six years of imprisonment, along with several of his subordinates - three years of imprisonment. The Pacification of the Uncle Mine is called the greatest crime of martial law. Hello and glory to the dead and wounded miners! Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u14	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Advent begins, and I am reminded of the long - term Gospel images. Behold, Jesus enters Jerusalem on a donkey, greeted by the cheering crowds. There are his teachings, miracles, maybe someone will discreetly touch his robe. Not much time will pass and the same crowd will shout: crucify him! I remember from my own experience the arrivals of John Paul II the Great to my homeland. There was a joyful singing, a crowd of people listening to his words, celebrations, emotions, great experiences. And the day he went away to his Father's house, night vigil in churches, tears and music bells. It's so recent, and you can hear the cries: he's guilty! He's gone, but he's left the entire legacy of his teaching, so why the insecurities of today and the aggression that humiliates the nation? Why destroy exhibitions, monuments, street names? And so few voices of defense, and yet the great one is. A crowd of five million cried out in the square of St. Peter: Holy from now on, holy immediately! Perhaps some Pilate would at least wash his hands and say publicly: I find no fault in him. Sadly, I believe that our homeland will wake up, that it will still be here as it should be, although these painful comparisons can be much more. Let's look at the country and the city. It is said that sociologists have discovered that young Poles settling in the city are ashamed of their rural roots. Sad outsiders, but it's not their fault. Escape from your childhood is painful, as is the loss of your home, but not everyone has the courage to resist the ridicule of his ancestors. History would help here, but you need to know it. Once this village provided cultural patterns, the noble court was a model of the Polish house, and to heroism it was not necessary to convince anyone to heroism, because it was a matter of honor. It doesn't really matter where you watch sunrises and sunsets, it's whether you notice their beauty. It is important whether you want to be a real person, and the villagers know that there are more people who love their village and their rural lineage than those who want to be refugees from their own culture. The problem of dividing into villages and cities is artificial and caused to divide people, to argue, to arouse dislike or to drive them into complexes. It may be easier to convince that today not freedom, but money is more important, not humanity, wisdom, faith and reason (the Bell), fidelity and responsibility, but some ideological fanabers duped on Brussels pavement. The word "adventure" comes from Latin and is translated as expectation. This year's Advent is bloated with problems, so there are many expectations. However, the most important thing is not to destroy the value of the coming holidays by living as necessary. If you take away people's Sundays, it's time to reflect, rest and celebrate, what will Christmas be? Will Christ be born, or will we crucify him again? Will we sing Polish carols or listen to evil screams, incomprehensible and unwarranted? In France, young Catholics went out into the streets to demand the opening of churches. They want to pray. That's a good sign. It allows you to believe that a man will return to the farm. It's only a matter of time - that's what the visionaries say and they're right. A world without a man living the truth is like a forest destroyed by a pest - sad, devoid of God's smile. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u16	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u17	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a statement, which is like a reproduction of what my colleague, Mr Waldemar Andzel, said just now, but I think it is important to talk about history, about Polish heroes and never to remind too much of it. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was the 39th anniversary of the tragedy in the Uncle's mine, in which nine miners were killed, and dozens, often unknown, were injured. The Uncle's mine has become a symbol of heroism, the pursuit of freedom of the country, the struggle for dignity and human rights. Today we must pay tribute to the heroes of those dark, December days. We join in prayer and amazement with the families of the victims of the murdered miners, with the prisoners and interned miners Wujek, members of the Silesian-Dąbrowska coal mine, as well as in Poland. The names of the miners who died for their homeland's freedom must remain a symbol of the struggle for the sovereignty of our beloved homeland. The scandal and disgrace is the fact that to this day opinions are expressed by representatives of various political options, especially the left side of the political scene, that events in Uncle were an accident, unintentional action of storms, which were a tool of totalitarian power of the Polish People's Republic. Nowhere in Uncle was it so obvious that the communists declared war on their own people and that General Jaruzelski and General Kiszczak were responsible for it. Today, on the next anniversary of events in the mine of Wujek, once again we pay tribute to the heroes of those events, the heroes of martial law. We pay our respects and we all bow to all the interned, imprisoned people who allow me to speak in the High House today. Thank you. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u18	Thank you very much. As the last Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to pay particular attention to the dangerous situation in the city of Morąg, and it is connected with the bridge over the railway tracks. It is in Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship. In April this year. The metal element, a metal angler of about 1 m long, fell on an active platform used by travellers, fell from the structure of the pedestal. Luckily, no one got hurt because the platform was empty at the time. Following that incident, given the real risk of safety and loss of health of users, the district building surveillance inspector in Ostróda by decision of 23 April 2020 closed the board and the two platforms located directly below it were excluded from use. They report to the parliamentary office of the residents asking for a solution to the problem of the footbridge. To this day, this passage is not accessible to pedestrians. This is a serious problem for the inhabitants of Morąg, because it makes it impossible to get from one part of the city to the other part. The closed footbridge significantly hinders the day-to-day life of the morals. In connection with the numerous signals received from my constituents on December 7, I met with the Mayor of the City of Morąg Mr Tadeusz Sobierajski. The Mayor expresses his willingness to cooperate on the renovation of the transition and also committed himself in a letter which he sent to PKP SA Real Estate Management Department in Gdańsk to participate in the costs of renovation. The problem that makes it impossible to start repairing is to determine the owner of the footbridge. According to Mayor Morąg, PKP SA owns the facility. According to the decision of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivode of 12 March 2004, the owner of the board is SA. The acquisition of permanent land designated in the register of land no. 2 of Morąg as plot No. 4/20 and free ownership rights of buildings, buildings and equipment located on these land were established by law on 27 October 2000 by the State company Polskie Koleź Państwowe. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to pay particular attention and, above all, to the Minister of Infrastructure and to the Minister of State Assets for the urgent establishment of the owner of the footbridge over the tracks in Morąg and for its repair as soon as possible, because the condition of the footbridge threatens the safety of travellers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u20	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I am ordering an adjournment until today. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 22 hours 23 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to check the quorum. You're welcome. Thank you. The meeting shall be attended by 447 Members. Your marshal, happy birthday. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, printing No 841. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws, print No 849. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the Fund for Local Roads and certain other laws, - specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2021, - on the amendment of the Act - the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 852, 850, 8551 and 853. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Senate has passed resolutions on laws: - amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws, - amending certain laws to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel, - amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The Senate's resolutions are 854, 855 and 856 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these resolutions. I propose, on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, examination of the amendments contained in the Senate resolutions without prior referral to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws (prints Nos 845 and 852). I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Bąk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On 16 December this year. At its 19th meeting, the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws and introduced four amendments to its text. Today, a joint meeting was held between the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy to examine the Senate's amendments. The joint committees recommend that the High House adopt all four amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u22	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate has notified amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Act in the municipalities. In the first amendment to Article. 3b The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 3. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 9z The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 9ze The Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was in favor, 442 against, holding out on 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 2 for, against - 439, 9 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Roads Fund and certain other laws (prints Nos 847 and 850). I would like to ask Mrs Agata Wojtyszek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and certain other laws, print No 847. On 17 December 2020, the committees met and discussed the Senate resolution of 16 December 2020, in which the Senate tabled five amendments. The committees recommend rejecting all amendments. At the same time, they recommend considering amendments 1 together and amendments 3 to 5. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u24	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to delete amendments 1, 2 and 4. Amendments 3 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3 to 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 36a of the Act on the Fund for Local Roads, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 (Prints No. 844 and 851). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, time. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I submit a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law 2021, print No 851. The Senate has made five amendments to the bill. After considering the Senate resolution at its meeting on 17 December, the Committee on Public Finance recommends rejecting all five amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u26	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to amend Article. 65. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 74 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 233 - for, against - 216, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 75 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 217 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 76. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 - for, 208 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 78 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 210 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - the Teacher Charter and some other laws (prints Nos 846 and 853). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws, print No 846. The Joint Committees on Education, Science and Youth and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy discussed the resolution at their meeting on 17 December 2020. The Senate has made four amendments. The committees recommend that all four amendments be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u28	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Teacher Charter. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to amend the added point 5 in Article. 70a paragraph. 3a. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes, inter alia, that the words used in the article. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a The child's rights and interests replace the child's rights, dignity and personal immunity. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 for, 217 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate proposes to shorten the time limit for the investigation. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. Article 28b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 Act - The Senate's educational law proposes that the words by contract replace by words by competition. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 - for, 211 - against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws (Print No 854). I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 20 November 2020 amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 20 November 2020 amending the Government Departments Act and certain other laws would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel (print No 855). We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 27 November 2020 amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 27 November 2020 amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 225 - for, 222 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution of the Senate in relation to the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of the announcement of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 848 and 849). I ask Mr Tadeusz Chrzan to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u29	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a report on the meeting held today, at which the committee has examined the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws. The Senate proposed six amendments to this proposal, including two legislative amendments: 1 and 6 which the committee recommends to vote together. The other four amendments, on the other hand, are substantive amendments. As a result of the vote, the committee recommends that all amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-17-sejm-24-1.u30	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Public Roads Act. In the first amendment to Article. 41 of the amended Act, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendment 6. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 1 for, against - 450, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 41 of the Law of the Reformed Senate proposes among others. the new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 277 - for, 174 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 55 hours 0 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 13. In the third amendment to the article. 41d of the amended law, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 3 for, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 41d of the amended law, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 13. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 218, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. The 5th Law amending the Senate proposes an amendment to the Act on the Fund for Roads of Local Government. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. Nobody was for, no 448 was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate's position on the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. I'm calling a five-minute break, and I'm asking the Senior Convention for the living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min 15 to hour 0 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Principles of Recognition of Professional Qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union (Print No 856). We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, 218 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Principles of Recognition of Professional Qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Review of the Senate resolution on amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of the epidemic or epidemic of medical personnel. The group of Members submitted on the basis of Article. Article 189 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a request for the readmission of votes on a resolution of the Senate rejecting the Act of 27 November 2020 amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel. I find, after consulting the Senior Convention, that there is a reason for the vote to be resumptuous. Sure. I will put the motion for resummation to the vote. We proceed with the vote on the motion for resummation. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the vote's resummation request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 233 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the re-vote on the motion to reject the Senate's resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 27 November 2020 amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (print No 841). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 841, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 417, 21 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. Before I make my final statement, ladies and gentlemen, despite all the difficulties, I would like to wish you all a peaceful, healthy Christmas and a happy New Year. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Well, so do we. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 24th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, tomorrow's session of the Sejm will not take place. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 24th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next sitting of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. Happy birthday again. [[Applause]] We're adjourned. (Marshal hits Marshal three times with Marshal's cane) [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 38]]
