ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11; - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.30; - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 12.30.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u2	Thank you. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. 432 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, three formal applications. Please, Mr Boris Budka. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, at the Seniors' Convention, we have proposed to extend the agenda and start with the point that today is the most emotional. Whose? To stand here the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for security and explain himself to Poles from this unlawful use of force against protesting women, from the fact that he puts the health and life of Poles at risk [[Applause]] - and today he doesn't even have the courage to come to the Sejm. You're putting yourself at risk. But I want to announce from this place that you, Mr. Kaczyński, will not hide from Poles, that you will have to come here and explain yourself. We've prepared as the Civic Coalition... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. ... request for cancellation of the function of Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński [[Applause]] And this motion will be... Oh! ...has to consider the High House. And finally, after all these years of destroying Poland, Mr. Kaczyński will have to stand here... Prime Minister. ...and answer specific questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u4	Mr Budka, please, I have already paid attention to this. I am not addressing you: Mr Budka, just Mr Budka, or Mr President, so please keep your basic standards in this House. Because it wasn't a motion... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Some Members chant: Dismiss! Dismissed! Dismissed! With a formal application. Sit down. I ask all of you - also here - to be calm so that we can start proceding. The motion against it, you're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Down with the Duck dictator. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, just a moment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, no. This is a formal conclusion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, just go away for a second, okay? Please, sir. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. You know exactly that, and I will not put him to the vote. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, with a formal proposal. Yeah, liars. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday... Apologize. ...an extraordinary thing has happened. We heard from the Sejm's pulpit that we were worthy to end up in prison. Apologize. But in prison, you're gonna end up... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen... ...who break the law without responsibility. Apologize. Members of the Left, the Coalition, go to protests to defend people, defend protesters. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Calm down, please. And that's where they're doing their ticket. We were detained there, so we demand information from Minister Kaminski and Prime Minister Kaczyński... You're lying. ...about why Robert Biedron in Wroclaw, Maciej Kopiec in Katowice, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic in Słubice, Monika Falej in Olsztyn, yesterday Magda Bejat in Warsaw - gas - and Włodzimierz Czarzasty in Warsaw were stopped. [[Applause]] We demand information because we also apply for a vote of distrust for Prime Minister Kaczyński. No more liability for danger. We will demand the cancellation of Prime Minister Kaczyński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u6	Mr President, you should be aware that this is not a formal proposal. I think I'm gonna ask for written requests because you're using the formal application formula and you know it. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] And in what mode did President Kaczyński perform during the break? What mode did President Kaczyński perform yesterday without a mask? Liar. Wizards to resign for lying. Cancel Charity. Madame, I ask you to remain calm. Members have not yet put forward all formal proposals. Here you are, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Coalition. One minute. Formal proposal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal, I'd like to request a recess and a change of conduct. Since yesterday, however, we have been dealing with a curiosity situation. Terrible things are happening. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What? You're snorting women, you're using gas. Your Marshal, perhaps you could... What? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm addressing you right now... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Rodeo's on the streets. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, please also reassure your colleagues. I'll calm mine down, okay? We'll be apart. You're welcome. Your marshal, right in that... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] So don't blame me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow Mr... Ladies and gentlemen, and on the one hand, and on the other hand, please allow the Member, as I understand it, to make a formal proposal. You're welcome, sir. Your Marshal, it was in those words that everything was actually included, as part of this proposal, that I wanted to say. The lady said, please calm your people, I will calm yours. You're a marshal, not yours. You're a Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] You should respond to this if Members come here and say that they are being pushed by the police, not allowed into the Sejm (the bell) that the police legitimize them... Thank you, sir. ... even though there are people present who certify that they are Members. Thank you, sir. You have made a formal request for a recess, sir. We will vote on this motion. Marshal, one more sentence. Stop it. Five seconds. Please, one sentence, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There isn't. Mrs. Marshal! You should stand guard of the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] Sit down. Don't be silly. You should take care of every parliamentarians, [[Applause]] No matter what club he's from. If you do not demand an explanation from the police, from Mr Kaczyński, from Mr Wąsik, from Mr Kaminski about what happened yesterday, you really limit your authority. [[Applause]] One sentence, sir. Your marshal, we're just asking you to be a marshal of the Polish Sejm, not a marshal of the PiS. [[Applause]] Mr President, you are being abused again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u8	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a debate starting, and it was supposed to be a formal proposal. There has been a formal request for interruption, and I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. But I'd like to make one motion, Marshal. I know, but I'm gonna solve another motion for a break. If we pass the vote, the other doesn't... Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a request for a recess. At the end of all conclusions. Unless you want all the conclusions at the end, okay. In that case, Mr Piotr Kaleta, Law and Justice, a formal proposal. And then Mr Robert Winnicki with a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u9	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we were dealing with an extraordinary thing in this House, because Mr Gawłowski... Gawkowski. ... Gawkowski created such an atmosphere here that the police were about to brutally stop and treat Deputy Marshal Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty. As it turns out, the truth is quite different. [[Applause]] Liar. Therefore, I am asking your marshal to do so. [[Applause]] so that until this situation is clarified, Mr Czarzasty, Vice-Marshal, did not conduct the proceedings of the High House, did not attend the meetings of the High House. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] This is a scandal, what's going on here. What does the marshal allow you to do? Perhaps it would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to consider, if this case proves true, if the explanations actually go in such a direction that it was Marshal Czarzasty who was guilty of this confusion... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But this is a scandal. ...on recalling your Vice-Marshal from his position. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u10	Mr President, who will be in charge of the Sejm is decided by the Marshal, so please... In corrigendum mode. My name has been called, Marshal. Your Marshal... No, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, sir, can you please not discuss it with me at the moment? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We spoke at the Senior Convention meeting. We're here on formal applications. There was something else at the Senior Convention meeting. I want to talk about it. Ad vocem. This is not a formal conclusion. It can't be... We spoke at the Convention meeting about something else. But you saw the movie. We're here on formal applications. It can't be that a Member of the PIS comes out and lies. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you about what happened yesterday. But you are filing formal applications, so I will wait patiently until the formal applications are exhausted and give you information. Ad vocem. Then react. At the moment, these formal applications are not formal proposals - for the time being, except one for a break. Correct, Marshal, to those words that fell. There's no correction. First... Correction mode. I've heard from the formalist. Mr President, there are no corrections to the formal proposals, because they were formal proposals. Please, a formal proposal, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask for the adjournment until Minister Kaminski and Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński prepare information about yesterday. Because yesterday was a special day. Yesterday was a day of looking a little bit in the mirror. I mean, first, Mr Kaczyński looked in the mirror and evidently saw the face of our fellow Member Grzegorz Braun without a mask, since he had taken it off when he entered the podium. He didn't have any. And then the platform... Previously, the Civic and Left Platform looked in the mirror and saw participants of the 2010 Independence March, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2020. You go. Your hypocrisy came out when the masked officers entered the crowd when they were provoking when they pulled out the telescopic batons. When it concerns the Independence March, of course you clap, when it concerns you, of course you cry. Because fascism is forbidden in Poland. The difference is that the organisers of the Independence March have never been so vulgar, they haven't done things like the organizers of your movements. That's the truth. [[Applause]] Fascist screams are forbidden.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u12	Thank you, sir. There's been a request for adjournment. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke has also made a formal request. There you go. Mr President, I hope that you will have a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal motion that your marshal, who makes applications that are not formal, on a formal pretext, punish the reception of his voice. To jail! Sit down! This really is a scandal: abuse of formal applications. [[Applause]] He took his own voice. Get your hands out of your pockets.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u14	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two formal requests. One for a break, the other for a adjournment. We are therefore voting. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I'm gonna submit this motion to... [[Game in the O.R.]] Sit down, sir. We're coming... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, yesterday Mr. Kaczyński called us names, you didn't respond. Just because someone's acting wrong doesn't justify... Yesterday, Marshal, we saw you in action. Your marshal, I'm sorry, I've also made a formal request. 443 Members voted. 211 - for, 228 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 95 for, 343 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, a few words of explanation after what happened yesterday. Today, these discussions are a little bit later because I decided to take a look at the situation primarily of the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors Convention, but I also wanted to give you information, and I would like to point out immediately that this is not subject to any discussion, and then we move on to the agenda. Yesterday, President Gawkowski dramatically reported that Mr Czarzasty, Deputy Marshal, had been detained and beaten. I announced a recess, and I immediately began to examine this information, because it's very important... After the blasphemy... ... regardless of which Vice Marshal would be concerned. These explanations ended after hours. 1 a.m., there was a continuation this morning, because I was still waiting for a letter from the chief. This was due to the delay, because I wanted to have all the information at the Bureau meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not referring to what happened during the entire assembly, the one that was on the street, illegal, by the way, you know that. I don't know what happened the whole time. I can relate and I've taken... The Wizard shouldn't enter the Seym. If you don't want to hear the explanation, tell me. I am referring to the actions I have taken after hearing this communication from the President. I've spoken to the chief three times, I've immediately sent a letter requesting an explanation from the chief, referring to the constitution and to the bill on the execution of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, saying that I've been informed about the detention and the physical... It's about direct coercion. Yeah, that's right. About the application of direct coercion measures against the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. I received an answer from the chief of police, which was completely different from the report presented here - that the marshal was beaten and detained by the police. This letter, on 1.5 pages, I read in full today at the Bureau meeting, Marshal Czarzasty knows it. In this letter from the chief, there was information that Mr. Czarzasty, Deputy Marshal, together with two other people, as it turned out, wanted to enter the Sejm. The police were doing their job, ladies and gentlemen, because it was her job to protect the Sejm, to ensure... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] So do we. Before the marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really gonna take a break if you don't want to listen. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. President, I'm sorry. Either you listen to what I have to say or you don't want to hear it. Tell me about it. I also asked the Marshal's Commandant for information about what happened because, as you know, we have industrial cameras, also outside. Cameras are also in the on-call room where the change commander is on duty. I asked for those movies. It took a while, you had to put it together, clean it up a little to see what it looked like, what was going on. Indeed, on the recording that I also released today - this is a recording from this moment, I say again, not from the entire course of the presence of the state on this manifestation, because unfortunately I have no way of observing what is happening with the messengers on these manifestations - it is evident that the marshal has not been beaten by anyone, has not been stopped. Mrs Żukowska has shown her identity card and can be seen in the film how calmly she passes to the Sejm. The second Member - whether the Member, I do not remember now, whether it was you or you - has also shown legitimacy and has also been passed. Mr. Marshal Czarzasty didn't show his ID requested by the police. Mrs Żukowska said that he was Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, but the police officer asked for proof of his identity. Do you have audio footage? He didn't get it. At that moment, the change commander saw on the monitor that something was going on, that you were spotted by Marshal Czarsty. So he left, headed for the squad cars. At that time, Mrs Żukowska approached the change commander and said what was happening. The change commander approached the police officers, said that yes, this is the marshal - this is a recording that is audible, it is not only a vision, but also a fonia - and the police immediately moved away. But the marshal didn't enter the Sejm, he just started a discussion, a conversation with the police. He was scaring the cops. Ladies and gentlemen, from the letter I received from the Chief, it appears that during... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please, sir, do not disturb me, okay? Please, sir. Don't disturb me, this is the marshal. I wish you'd always remember that. Mr Kalet, I ask you very much - so that I can continue, okay? I'm almost done. In that information I received in writing from your chief of staff... I will also address him after the Bureau meeting, after talking to Marshal Czarzasty, I will give this letter to the Marshal. I can give them to you, there is no problem, but I think it would be good if I asked your Chief Chief for a personal answer, directly addressed to your Vice-Marshal, to those charges I raised in writing. The marshal will have in his hands a letter from the commander. The result is... it wasn't shoving, ladies and gentlemen, there's no shoving in the movie. The police stand, the marshal walks, rubs his bodies, right? That's not the point. A cop fell on a hook from a tow rope and suffered injuries that caused him to go to the hospital and for a few weeks or a few months he'll be turned off. Something like that. From what he said... We had a body breach. It's not there. So the marshal beat up a cop. It's not in that movie. Ladies and gentlemen, may I continue? Will you allow me to continue, Mr President, or should I end this? But you're lying. I'm reporting to you, I'm not commenting, I'm not judging, I'm not opinionating. I'm only pleading for what I have, what I've been able to determine. I don't judge that, Mr President. Both sides... And that's your mistake. You should be on Marshal Charity's side. Sit down! Ladies and gentlemen, I address you... Sit down, Mr. Budka! Respect for your marshal. ...to the right, please. Really, just two sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, today I listened to the press secretary at the police station explaining the situation. If Mr. Marshal Czarzasty or one of you has other recordings that explain it, they show that the situation was completely different... Of course, every Member has the right to ask for an explanation of this situation. I'd like to be informed about that then. At the moment, I reacted most accurately, as I could, to the situation that was described yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, we're just... If the marshal wants to make any decisions, he'll make them. I'm gonna send a letter to the chief again so he can personally answer to the marshal to get the handwriting into his own hands. That's the end of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the agenda items. Group of Members... Minister Kaminski has something to say. Excuse me, Minister Kaminski is asking for the floor. Please. Does he have a telescopic stick with him? I ask you very much to be serious, sir, okay? Mr Nitras, you may step out of the room. There you go, Minister Mariusz Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u15	Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! I'd like to share with you a few reflections, maybe supplement the information you gave the marshal about the incident involving Marshal Charzasty. Louder. Louder, Minister. If you're gonna be loud, you won't be able to hear it. But we can't listen. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Mr. Marshal, I don't want to warm my emotions, but what you did yesterday was very bad. Shit, what a guy. You've warmed up the atmosphere here by giving false information, and an officer... And what Kaczyński did was good? Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully to what I'm about to say. The officer who did his duty before the Sejm is in the hospital at the moment, has a damaged right knee - kneecap and ligaments. Apologize. He'll be off duty for weeks. We're gonna explain this incident because it's unacceptable. Are you accusing the Marshal of lying? Representatives of the authorities, ladies and gentlemen, must behave in accordance with certain procedures and show respect for the officers of the Polish State, which are police officers, who carry out their duties on behalf of the Polish State. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to heat up the atmosphere because the atmosphere in the country has been hot for weeks. You shouldn't have set fire. I want to be very clear... Mr Budka has just announced a motion for a vote of distrust against Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński because of the police's actions. This request is wrongly addressed. Oh, respect. From the very beginning, as Minister of the Interior, I fully supervise my subordinate formations every day, including the Polish Police. He's the one with the unrealized oversight? The police are here to protect Kaczyński? I'm the one who can be accounted for, and I'll be settled by... And the Prime Minister for what? ... The High House, because like every minister, I am prepared to submit to democratic procedures. Art again. 231 Criminal Code. Excuse me, Minister, please, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment ago... Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to upset me. ...a formal application has been made... Minister, I'm so sorry, one second. Just a moment ago, a formal request was made for the adjournment of the sitting until Minister Kaminski arrived. As it turned out, Minister Kaminski was, so let him finish his speech. Formal conclusion. Please don't disturb me. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words. My goal is not to heat the atmosphere in this room or in the country. As Minister of the Interior, I have my own responsibilities as State Minister, which I do. If you think I'm doing it wrong, you have the right to apply for a vote of distrust against me. I, once again, want to stress this, since the big social explosion that took place after 22 October, which is after the Constitutional Court's ruling, I am constantly overseeing the activities of my services, including the police. I have full responsibility, every type, including political, of course, for the police's actions. I believe that these were measures taken in the public interest, in the interests of all citizens. The fact that the police are being attacked today both on the left side, both by you and by you, indicates its impartiality. The police aren't, and they're never gonna be a party brigade, as you'd like to call it. I have placed simple tasks before the Polish Police in a situation, I admit, a large social conflict to carry out. Smacking women. First of all, secure the stability of the state, prevent the country from destabilising and thus... Why did you send provocatives, Minister? I'll explain. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Please don't disturb me. Would you like to hear my information as Minister? You do not have the floor at the moment, sir. We never have a voice. Sit down. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: I ask you to remain calm, sir. When you have a voice, you will be able to comment on my words and actions of my subordinates. The first primary objective in a pandemic situation, when faced with huge social protests, is to safeguard the security of the state in a beneficial way and thus the freedom of operation of all public institutions. That's why the police were here yesterday to secure this freedom for all of you, so that no one would enter the Parliament Hall, so that there would be no pushing, fighting and fighting here, so that we could freely express our views as parliamentarians of all groups. What have you led to? That was the purpose of the police. That's why she was standing here, and she's standing here today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because those were the announcements of the organizers - block the Sejm, prevent us from working, us as parliamentarians, to you as parliamentarians. Us? No. We're not afraid. Ladies and gentlemen, the second goal I set for the police because the social emotions were enormous was to prevent physical aggression between different groups of demonstrators. I don't think that worked out. We have often dealt with organized groups of pseudokibites, yes. We have often dealt with organized groups trained for street fighting related to extremely left-wing environments. [[The joy, the chatter in the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes. Kaczynski's fighters. I will also provide you with precise information on street combat training at the right time. Now's the time. Street games. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of what views were being preached on the street, the police have always followed the same rules. Regardless of the police's slogans, they were supposed to be decisive where they needed to act decisively and decisively where they needed to act decisively, where the blood of innocent people who went out into the street to demonstrate their views could be spilled. They have the right to do so, but there are pandemic restrictions. All over Western Europe, there are various types of violent street situations. Look at what's going on in Germany, France, Spain, Italy. See what's going on in Warsaw. Yes, only there is, of course, the main issue of the pandemic, the rigor, the tightening of these rigors. Human rights don't break. A new topic - the subject of abortion, came to Poland. An important topic that divides society... Which you caused in the middle of a pandemic. I'm sorry. ...who divides society. Who started it? Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: I understand the protesters. I do not accept as a politician and as a person the form of these protests, but I understand that many people have decided that they must protest and express their views on this matter. I respect that, not completely accepting the form. But in addition to many young people who were on the streets in this case, we had extreme groups, groups that call directly for the overthrow of constitutional organs. There is only one way to change power in Poland - only democratic elections decide this. One of the elements of these democratic elections we had a few months ago. We chose the president, massly, with almost the highest attendance in the history of Polish democratic elections. Let's all respect that. And who tricked Polonia? Let's all respect that. There will be no revolution in Poland, we will not allow it. A revolution understood not in a political and ideological sense, because we have no influence on certain things... You're making a revolution. Lukashenka, too. ...but in the sense of using force against the constitutional authorities of the Polish state. Like your marshal. They'll function freely. The Sejm, the Senate, the government and the President. Formal conclusion. But I want to tell you more: Every public institution... Well, then you remember how he threw the stones. If the crowd goes to Warsaw City Hall, it will be protected and defended because it is a public institution and the President of Warsaw was elected in democratic elections. And the Polish police will see to it. And you didn't throw eggs at the president? Ladies and gentlemen, listen, please control your emotions. And in the New World, who threw rocks? Don't heat it up. This is what the Polish police are trying to control. Let's respect each other. In the name of the interests of all citizens, regardless of their political views. But did you throw it? During these violent speeches, the police also protected protesters - despite the fatal, unacceptable form of these protests - from bandits who could cause the blood of innocent people to be shed on Polish streets. Yes, the police have prevented this, including civilian officers, who are always obliged to ensure that these aggressors - individuals who are in the crowd and who think they are anonymous and unpunished - do not contribute to the tragedy. And so it was on November 11th, and yesterday, and at every major assembly -- at the time when the Platform ruled, too. This is a standard and this is a legitimate activity. You're confusing the demonstrations. Ladies and gentlemen, I now wish to refer to the matter of churches. It's different from fascists and bullshit, but it's different from women. Keep your emotions in check. Now I want to make reference to the church thing. An unprecedented thing happened - in 12 cases physical aggression and the entrance of the Holy Mass was disturbed. For many Poles, churches and masses are extremely important things. Don't heat it up. The Polish State must guarantee... We're fighting for human rights. ...the constitutional freedom of religion. You're not a bishop. And I want to tell you that this time Polish Catholic churches are the victims of aggression... Human rights, too. ...but if it so happens that some group of aggressors would destroy Orthodox or Jewish synagogues, we will with the same determination enforce the right of these citizens to freely confess their faith and not to offend their religious feelings. [[Applause]] We're in a cross-war. This is not a crusade. But if Wizard wants to enter the Seym, he can't. Calm your emotions, sir. You're a very emotional person. It's for the president. I would like to appeal to you, to you parliamentarians: Here is your place of work, not on the street. [[Applause]] Bravo! Don't organize your false parliamentary intervention. You guys are going... But Kaczyński says otherwise. ...to increase the security of the aggressors so they can feel your political umbrella. It's not in prison anymore? According to Kaczyński in prisons. Ladies and gentlemen! You're saying the police were violent yesterday. What was that brutality, I want to ask. The fact that people who participate in an illegal convention and commit offences have been identified? Yeah, they're committing misdemeanors. The reporters' eyes are gassed. Offences shall be allowed and shall therefore be subject to the consequences of the delegation of the mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, do you hear each other? But he's been talking seven minutes late. We have politics, Marshal. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Your pseudo-interventions only cause chaos. I've seen a lot of movies posted on the Internet, I've seen one of the members of the Civic Platform who dared to talk to an officer... and turned to you: what you're doing, you have to do this or that. Which one? Scandal! It is you who provoke, you insult the dignity of Polish officers, the Polish Police. [[Applause]] Which one? In your little political games you introduce an element... Let's see the video. ...attack on other public officials, which are police officers, who do their job well for the whole society, who are on line one... They do, but you don't. ...who also expose themselves to the plague, to the pandemic. 8,000. Polish policemen are either sick or in quarantine... They run because they don't want to serve you. ...almost 10% Polish police. They show extremely high morale and a sense of service to all citizens. [[Applause]] Mr Nitras calls me here to answer your case... About Żoliborz. Right on Kaczyński's case. ...that private property of important law and justice politicians is protected. I answer you this: if 30,000. People will go under your house, shouting hateful slogans... Then why aren't they coming? Because we're not provoking anyone. ...the home myr and the safety of everyone will be protected, regardless of what party he's from. Nitras, there's nothing to go to. I will tell you that during November 11th, there were voices on the Internet that we would go to Trzaskowski's house. The capital headquarters made contact with the president and there was police protection there just in case. We sent a neighborhood guy over there. Each of you will be defended by the Polish police if physical aggression threatens you, regardless of your political views, because these are the responsibilities of the state and the police. Where are the police? Minister, is this... Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Ladies and gentlemen! I want to make it clear that the introduction of such great emotions is irresponsible. Every Polish politician knows there are problems... You're gonna tell Kaczynski that. ...which disgust large social groups, but we have pandemic time, we have time... Did you tell your CEO that? ...when 600 people die in the last 24 hours a day. It's obvious that public gatherings... The bad guys. ...the lack of respect for the principle of social distance undoubtedly contributes to this. They're not contributing. For this reason, the police are taking steps in order, often meeting with aggression from those who are legitimized. Often officers are insulted, physically attacked... Lie! ...because some people have a false sense of impunity just because of that political umbrella you're giving them with your irresponsible actions. Let the Polish police act calmly where there is no physical aggression towards others. If a person chooses to commit offences, to violate health regulations, he or she shall suffer the consequences in the form of a mandate. Kaczynski will carry it? Get off me. There is no aggression, there is no suppression of any political protests due to their nature. They apply generally to all, regardless of what views are being preached during the assembly, the severity of the epidemic. It's obvious. In many countries of the European Union there is a curfew, ladies and gentlemen, there is a ban on any assembly, there is the possibility of leaving the house only for work. Stop manipulating young people's emotions. They have their views, I respect those views, but the form of these protests, the fact that they gather, that they expose themselves, their loved ones, their neighbors, their colleagues, is unacceptable in a state. [[Applause]] Then don't provoke me. So in the name of responsibility, I appeal to you: calm down these social sentiments. There will be time for political discussion and for political solutions - not police solutions, but political solutions - of all the important problems that concern our voters. Thank you, Minister. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u16	Thank you very much. The debate has to be. It can't be that he lied and nothing. You're welcome, Marshal Czarzasty. There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I only have one request, Marshal. This is not the agenda item for us to hold a debate, so please, I understand that you want to... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not shout out because we won't hear each other. I understand you want to refer to what happened here from the podium, so go ahead, but let's try to do it. That's good. Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I am as parliamentarians as you are on this side and on this side. I have the same rights as you, and I have the same rights to defend those rights, our rights. Minister! You didn't tell the truth about the incident because the situation, ladies and gentlemen, was like this. And I must submit this information to you. I wanted to enter the Sejm area, with me former messengers, there were people who accompanied me. I approached the police cordon, introduced myself, informed that my name was Vladimir Czarzasty, informed that I was Deputy Marshal of the Sejm. They didn't believe it. Since I had no ID, Mrs Żukowska took out her I.D., showed her I.D., informed her that she was a messenger, and certified, showing this document, she made a statement that I was a marshal and I am an MEP. They didn't believe it. By the way, the fact that such a person can certify as a second person is the result of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 4 February 2020. From that moment on, the cops, even if they didn't recognize me, and I'm not too cocky, maybe they didn't recognize me... Oh... If they didn't even know me, from that moment on, all the cops knew who I was. In the meantime, there was this situation: first, I was stopped, second, I was pushed on the car's hood, third, when I was pushed on this car mask, I felt a blow in the back, in the back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a lie. I've been immobilized by force. And I was deprived of my freedom. That's what happened. The film you showed the marshal has been since it happened. Yeah, I'm sure. After this incident came the security of the Sejm, the guards, and as they said I was an MP, I was just let go... And correct. ...though for many minutes the police, as a result of Mrs Żukowska's statement, knew that I was an MEP. Unbelievable. And now I would like to say yes to you, I would like to say this clearly: yesterday, Mrs Beyat was sprayed with gas from a distance of 3 m, although she showed earlier - the film is available on the Internet - a parliamentary card. Your Member of the Civic Coalition... Wielichowska. ... Wielichowska gave her I.D. that was broken. She broke herself - that's what they say. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that this is not, Minister, a behaviour worthy of the police. Yesterday I said I wasn't gonna accuse that cop who pushed me... But we're accusing you. Grace. ...because it wasn't him... someone told him to do it. Ha, ha, ha. But I wanted to make it clear that, in view of today's situation, I found out this morning that I beat up a cop... Well, you did, didn't you? Your Marshal refers to Mr Gawkowski, refers to the head of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, but it was not shown in this film. It wasn't shown, although you said, this is the moment when the marshal pushed the policeman, I wanted to tell you that I'm 60 years old. If I found out... This morning I found out I beat up a cop. Mr. Marshal! Go ahead and finish. I'm done. Apologize. I wanted to say this: yesterday, Minister, many policemen beat people with telescopic batons. Unbelievable. Yesterday these people were surrounded by cops, sprayed with gas on these people, blasphemed. And this is... Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. You can turn my mic off, but I'll tell you the last word. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. You must be honest with the things you say. Enough with the lie. Sir, I'm asking you to do this. I don't think you're fair about it. Enough with the lies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u18	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a 10-minute break and inviting the Senior Convention to the living room. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 03 hours 12 min 20]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. I wanted to tell you that this cannot be the case. We proceed with the normal scheduled agenda. We are adjourned. The groups of Members have submitted draft resolutions: - supporting the activities of the Council of Ministers in the field of budgetary negotiations in the European Union, - of the caller. Council of Ministers for the conclusion of an agreement on the budget of the European Union for the period 2021 to 2027 and the Fund for Reconstruction, - on the obligation of the President of the Council of Ministers to accept a proposal for a long-term budget of the European Union, - on the commitment of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki and the Polish Government to adopt the Multiannual Financial Framework for the years 2021 to 2027. The designs are 755, 749, 754, 753, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda, the Sejm listened to 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the Fund for Roads and certain other laws, print No 737. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, print No 742. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 47, 48, 49 and 50 of the agenda: I ask Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, to present the justification for the draft resolution contained in print No 755. Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: How much time do I have, Marshal? Five minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, I have the honour to present a draft resolution of the Sejm which in fact strengthens the negotiating mandate for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government and the Polish Government in talks about the Multiannual Financial Frameworks. I will report very briefly on the provisions of this draft resolution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is presented the basic legal framework which the Sejm wishes to recall and highlight. The Republic of Poland is a democratic and sovereign state of law, i.e. reference to Article. 2 Polish Constitution, but also reference to the recitals of the Polish Constitution, which also says that the Republic of Poland is a political community of all citizens. The entry under point 2 refers to the Accession Treaty, to the Treaty on European Union, stresses that the Republic of Poland and its citizens have the right to respect their rights and sovereignty on an equal footing with all other countries and their citizens in accordance with Article. 2 and 4 of the Treaty on European Union. Point 3 points to the rule of law, so that any action by public authorities must be based on clear legal provisions set out equally for all. Point 4 points out the principle of non-discrimination, which applies on the one hand to citizens, but on the other hand it is also unacceptable to discriminate against Member States, to apply different standards of conduct to them. Points 5 and 6 set out examples which raise serious doubts about the past of the European Commission's action. There have been cases of double standards. If you'd like, I can point out a few. E.g. in Germany, the selection board of judges consists of 16 Members of the Bundestag, of 16 Land Ministers of Justice, of the Federal Minister, is a political body. There have never been any objection to the functioning of this body. Such a politicised system for the selection of judges also exists in France, Ireland, Spain, Austria. There is no constitutional tribunal in the Netherlands at all. No objections from the European institutions have been raised to all these systemic solutions in the past. In the meantime, such reservations are raised for Polish system solutions. There aren't the same standards here. We do not want to punish Germany for the political election of judges. What about the understudy judges? But I also ask that no one demands that we be punished for the system of choice of judges. Mr President, you are in the Parliament's Chamber. Art. 5 of the Treaty on European Union is the principle of granting that if any competence has not been conferred on the European Community, the European Union remains the responsibility of a Member State. I would remind you that the competence to decide whether to reform the justice system or to shape the justice system has never been passed on to the European level, so it is up to the Member State. In point 10 we are talking about the fact that many statements by politicians from many European countries leave no doubt that Poland is to become the target of such actions. I would like to quote Mrs Katarina Barley, Vice-President of the European Parliament, who said she wanted to starve some countries with this mechanism. It is difficult to give more accurate evidence of the intention behind such actions. Finally, in view of these legal aspects, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland... here we wanted to clarify one thing: there will be an amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice deleting point 1 because we want to make it clear that veto is not an end in itself, veto is a tool to ultimately achieve negotiating success. We do not want to block anything, but we cannot allow the European Commission to block a good budget for Poland. That is why we call on all political forces to be united in this matter. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Ladies and gentlemen! Answer the question: Do you want to strengthen the mandate of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in these negotiations... No, no. ...do you want to strengthen the mandate of the European Commission in these negotiations? Do you want the Polish government to decide whether you want... He doesn't work in the interests of Poland. ...the European institutions decided to spend the money? Do you want, as Prime Minister Morawiecki said, our fate to be in our hands, or do you want it to be like President Katarina Barley said, you want to starve? [[♪ The bell ♪]] some countries in the name of political goals? These questions must be answered. Your Marshal, the last few sentences. No, one sentence, Minister. Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Okay, then one sentence, if you don't mind. Ladies and gentlemen! 2020 is a special year. This is the year on the one hand of the pandemic, on the other hand the year of the 40th anniversary of the Solidarity. Poland, Poles have this particular gene of solidarity. We know what it is, we know its value. We want this Polish gene of solidarity to become the gene of European solidarity. We want to build such a solidarity, fair European Union, also in terms of its finances, its budget, which will be good for Poland, will be good for other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u20	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Boris Budka to present the justification for the draft resolution contained in print 749.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, today's debate concerns the safety of Poles and Poles. This debate today is about whether we will be able to continue to build a great European project based on solidarity, security, cooperation, respect for values and mutual respect and tolerance. And not without reason for 5 years this government, step by step, has brought Poland out of the European Union. Why? Because the European Union is principles, values, above all rules that are equal for all. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, you have proved that your political interests, internal competitions, the struggle for power and money that you love so much and which you have so much in common are more important than the security of Poles. Today we are really talking about the fact that the opposition, together, both the Civic Coalition Club, the Left Club and the Polish People's Party Club - the Polish Coalition, wants to declare support for this government, support for the government in a situation where we are talking about billions of zlotys for Poland. From the very beginning we stressed: the reconstruction fund, which Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to in July, is a guarantee that we are able to bring Poland together from the economic crisis - together with other countries of the European Union. You refer to solidarity, but you absolutely do not understand this word, because solidarity means solidarity for you to draw money out of the pockets of Polish taxpayers. Do you know what rule of law means? What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? The rule of law means that you will not be able to steal with impunity, that another colleague of the Minister will not draw millions of zlotys from Polish taxpayers' money for left masks, ventilators or left tests. [[Applause]] The rule of law means you won't be able to get away with it... How's Sławomir N? ...removing the judges you've fallen for. The rule of law means that you will not be able to reach into the pockets of Polish taxpayers in a systematic manner when you fill in additional companies of the State Treasury. And finally, the rule of law means you'll be under control. For 5 years you have systematically destroyed, destroyed in Poland any control institutions. You took over the D.A.'s office so that you could unpunished two towers to protect the gangsters who tried to rob Polish banks through KNF. You have built a system of impunity and today you want to continue this impunity even under the threat of losing European money. But, ladies and gentlemen, today the opposition says one word... one... same thought. We are on the side of Poles and Poles. Today we have submitted three draft resolutions that support the Polish government. And in this House, if only you were brave enough to reject the so-called extremism. Solidar Poland - people you have just said about, well, they have no competence, but you had to put them somewhere in these ministries - if you rejected extremists, we would be able to build a good agreement. We would be able to build a good agreement for the safety of Poles and Poles, for Polish farmers, for self-government workers, for nurses, doctors, medical rescuers, for entrepreneurs who today suffer from the effects of the economic crisis. And we offered it to you. We want a resolution that will support the Polish government, which will show that, as we once did in this House, we were able to accept the good Treaty of Lisbon together, as we were able to vote together on key issues for Poland, and today we want support for a good European budget. And today you have to answer the simple question: What is more important to you, the right state, the safety of Poles and Poles, or the impunity that your pseudo-minister of pseudo-justice wants? Today, Prime Minister, you could have received broad support in this House, rejecting extremes, rejecting people who have such an idea of the rule of law as Jarosław Kaczyński about democracy and respect for human rights. To the point, sir. But you, Prime Minister, being blackmailed by your own government camp, are going against the current of the entire European Union. You didn't learn how to fail 27:1. Today you're going to the wall again, today you've fallen into that corkscrew again, and the ground is right in front of you. I appeal to you in the name of national interest: stop. Let's talk about how to use this good budget for Poles and Poles. Do not scare Poles of the European Union, do not bring Poland out of the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, I call you to speak with one voice in key matters. And I guarantee that if you, Prime Minister, submit an increased European budget for the reconstruction fund to the High House for ratification, there will be broad agreement and support. I'm calling you. Just be brave for once. Do it, even with consequences in your own power camp. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u22	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski to present the justification for the draft resolution... Your marshal, there's no one in the government. And there's no one from the government. There's no one from the government. There it is. The Deputy Minister is sitting down. There it is. There's a government representative authorized to perform... Excuse me, folks, but this is what we got... The government is represented by Minister Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk. But he's an applicant. He's in the government, isn't he? It's like this class... This is in accordance with the rules of procedure. But it's unethical. We already know what those ventilators were like. Respirators or inspirations? Give me your finger, he'll take your whole hand. Please, Mr. Krzysztof Gawkowski, print number 754.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Union is our common family, where we are not only to share funds but also to share values. The European Union, which is to bring us together in the rule of law, democracy, compliance with regulations. This is the kind of union we chose in 2004 and we have found ourselves in the last 16 years. We built a community that was supposed to give us a sense of justice, and over the years, the Union has given us that feeling. Today, the European Union may feel betrayed, but not by Poles and Poles, but by the Government of Law and Justice, who, within its interests, wants to deny Poles access to finance, wants to lead us to a place where each Pole and every Pole... their wallets will be empty. What the Law and Justice government is proposing is a highway to disaster. 100 billion PLN - that is what we can lose if the resolution by law and justice is adopted. But it's not law and justice money, it's money. All of us, therefore, the Left has proposed a resolution of the Sejm in which we are clear: the Polish interest in the state is to adopt a resolution in which we will fight for every dollar, we will not veto the budget, and we will try to make sure that the funds go wherever we have to fight the pandemic, where we need to rebuild the economy, where we need to say clearly and clearly that we need more money for infrastructure. The Left's resolution is to give us a sense of security for every citizen and every citizen. The money that you are fighting with in the European Union is a standard of security for us, and that is what you should remember. Minister! Responsibility for whether you want to veto or not is not the responsibility of the PiS, it is the responsibility of Poland, and that is why the Left will do everything to get this money to the citizens. If you Poles and Poles rob, we will bring this money to the budgets of local governments. It's gonna be a harder, more round road, but no one's gonna get robbed of that money. Local governments of municipalities, powiats, voivodships have the right to help their citizens. If you do not do this, in Europe we will lobby for this procedure by the Left MEPs in cooperation with other groups. What do you want to do to the Poles and Poles today? You're trying to tell them that you're fighting for justice and self-government here in this courtroom. You want to tell them that you are fighting for solidarity, for the roots of the European Union, but these roots are nothing more than a lack of your idea of how to defend yourself from the rule of law process that has been implemented against the rule of law and justice. The European Union is the country of all of us, which means that we must fight responsibly for every citizen. And that's the Left's proposal. A common Europe where the money you lose will go to the citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u24	Thank you very much, sir. There's still... Because it was five minutes, your marshal, and it should be seven, so three minutes... No, no, five minutes is as a presentation, and in the club discussion seven minutes. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to present the justification for the draft resolution contained in print 753.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Republic of Poland is a community of all citizens - very rightly this quote is quoted in today's debate. This community in more than 80% is convinced that the Polish presence in the European Union is a value to be defended. An element of this presence is also what is happening in matters relating to the fundamental principles of its functioning, including the development of a multiannual budget and everything related to economic, economic policy, the regulations to be created in the Community of the 27 Member States. I would like to say that in the draft resolution submitted by the Members of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, we call on the President of the Council of Ministers to adopt the multiannual financial framework, because we recognise that the amounts negotiated in the multiannual budget and in the reconstruction fund are in the current situation an opportunity for Poland to develop and rebuild the Polish economy, which has suffered and will still suffer huge losses. Yesterday's debate on various sector support shows that we are not able to support all sectors of the economy with our own budgetary funds. This dispute is still alive today. I think it should be the main argument that we should save the economic existence of many entrepreneurs, farmers, local communities, hospitals - because it is in the interest of Poles. On 21 July, the European Council reached an agreement on the multi-annual budget and the reconstruction fund, which was announced by the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki as a negotiating success of the Polish government. The decision to strengthen control of EU funds was an integral part of the leadership agreement, as was said at the time. So we agreed to conditionality. The announcement of the veto, which we heard from Prime Minister Morawiecki, may block the creation of a reconstruction fund, which is to come from the issue of debt to finance it, for which the Prime Minister also gave his consent on behalf of Poland on 21 July, on behalf of the Polish government. The reconstruction fund is expected by Member States, including Poland. Nobody's questioning that, either, in this room. It is also expected by farmers, entrepreneurs, local authorities, the health sector, to provide funding for the basic needs of this reconstruction process, to stimulate investment, to stimulate all those measures that have been halted as a result of the epidemic. Also saving the health of Poles, because many Poles refrained from saving their health or this process was stopped because of COVID. We also have the effect of increasing the number of people leaving us for eternal watch. Both the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Rehabilitation Fund provide funds for a fair transition process in the mining areas. It was claimed that this was an opportunity to rebuild Polish economic and energy potential. We want to deliberately give up funds for civilizational change, for changes that can bring a whole new quality of life to our citizens. After all, these are regions located in six voivodships. There are also measures to support investments to protect the environment and climate and to finance the modernisation process. Minister Szczepański said in his speech at the Council meeting: For Poland it is not a problem of conditionality, for Poland the problem is not the rule of law. So what is the problem for Poland? The problem for Poland is legal certainty. If legal certainty is a problem, it means that this is a border crossing, since, according to a government representative, we have no problem with the rule of law. The government has information that the other 25 Member States are in favour of the multiannual framework. They do not have a legal problem, but only Poland and Hungary have a legal problem. So let's break it down, high government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants for this resolution, I would like to appeal: more faith, Prime Minister, more faith, a high government, not a ghost in Poles, do not say that the 25 other Member States want to deceive Poland, want to sneak us away from sovereignty or compromise the successful economic and economic development of Poland, Polish entrepreneurs, farmers, because that is not the case, because the principle of subsidiarity or subsidiarity, the Christian principle is at the heart of the functioning of the European Union. Marriage equality, LGBT and adoption of children. So let us try to enforce this principle of subsidiarity, because we really deserve it. An element of this subsidiarity is also one of the highest, as the Prime Minister said, of the negotiated budgets, including the reconstruction fund, which we congratulate the government and we expect it not to withdraw from it, and it will not retort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u26	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the joint discussion on these items. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u27	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my views on the draft resolutions in prints 749, 753, 754 and 755. High Seym! A clear position on budget negotiations was heard yesterday in the Seym by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We want to adopt the budget of the European Union in the interests of Poland, as well as other Member States. We do not accept any discretionary mechanisms based on politically motivated criteria. Their adoption will consequently lead to the application of double standards and unequal treatment of European Union countries. What's it like, High Sejm? It is said that the opposition is in favour of equality, but when it comes to equal treatment of European Union countries, it tries to commit its own government to completely different actions. The Union to which Poland joined in 2004 is a union of promoting peace and values - let us remind you, Christian values - a union of equality, also in the light of law, a union of strengthening economic and social cohesion, a union of solidarity between Member States, not a union in which some want to gain primacy over others. I will quote the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who came here yesterday: 2020 is a difficult time and it will be possible to get out of it if we are united and if we are pursuing a policy in the interests of the Polish people. Yes, today the interests of our nation require that we take joint action and do not allow the rear door to introduce mechanisms that are harmful to Poland and are harmful to the whole of the European Union. Therefore, a common position should be expected from the parliamentary opposition today in support of the Polish government's actions in the name of defending the rule of law, equality and solidarity, in the name of the well-understood interest of the country's own country and its sovereignty. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawicki made it clear: We speak loudly for the European Union, but loudly for those who treat Poland and other countries of the European Union unevenly. Today, the rule of law is used in the European Union as a threat in a reverse way to the value of this formulation. Today, it is not only Poland that sees a threat in the attempt to apply a mechanism that violates Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. Let me remind you that it does not allow discriminatory action against any Member State by the EU institutions and other Member States. Hungary sees it, sees it, and the Prime Minister of Slovenia speaks about it loudly. His words: If it comes to the fact that the majority will decide what is and what is not in accordance with the rule of law, it will be the end of the European Union. The Prime Minister of Slovenia calls for a return to the agreement at the July European Union summit and, attention, not to push for the current regulation. Opposite, listen to these brave voices. And one more quote to the opposition, just to taste: It would not be good if you mixed two orders. The money we spend on different issues in the budget should not be subject to purely political criteria. Who do you think these words are? Well, the most handsome prime minister. These are the words of your guru, the Civic Platform, Donald Tusk... With respect! ...spoken in 2018 [[Applause]] Except today you're pretending they didn't die at all. Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk! Donald Tusk! That's the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the way you are, the What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of, opposition? Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands threatened veto. Is something wrong? No. It just matched the budget. But wait a minute, you should remember those words too, because it was during your reigns that MEP Janusz Lewandowski said them in 2010. Courage, then, opposition. Poland needs your courage today, not your cowardice. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, I submit an amendment to the parliamentary draft resolution in support of the Council of Ministers' activities in the field of budget negotiations in the European Union, print No 755. Also acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I bring... It's about rejection. ...to join the second reading immediately after the first, without referring to the committee of Members of the draft resolution supporting the work of the Council of Ministers in the field of budget negotiations in the European Union, printing No 755, and to reject in full the draft resolution in the first reading of the Parliamentary draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to conclude an agreement on the budget of the European Union for 20212027 and the Fund for Reconstruction, printing No 749, to reject in full the first reading of the draft resolution on the commitment of the President of the Council of Ministers, Matthew Morawiecki and the Government of the Republic of Poland to adopt the Multiannual Financial Framework for the period 2021 to 2027 and to reject in full the first reading the draft resolution on the obligation of the President of the Council of Ministers to accept the proposal for a long-term budget of the European Union, printing No 754. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u28	Thank you, Member. But you can only make an amendment at second reading. I'm just gonna take a motion for rejection from you. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! This is an extremely important debate. I regret that neither President Kaczynski nor Prime Minister Morawiecki is here during this debate, not by accident. This is an important debate because someone might think that this is a debate about the state of negotiations, about the level of negotiations, about what we want to achieve in the budget negotiations, also in the negotiations on the recovery fund, the reconstruction of the European economy after the COVID crisis, the economy that is really in a difficult situation. But it is not only a debate about this, it is also a debate about whether Poland will be in the European Union in a few years, because such processes are undergoing dynamically. Today we're dealing with a situation that... What's the condition? The psychic is the Polish government, there are Polish Prime Minister, Polish Deputy Prime Minister or Super Premier Kaczyński, that's what we saw yesterday during the Seym debate. I put a hard thesis from this speaker: in my opinion Mr Kaczyński's ability to really evaluate the Polish position in the European Union, the Polish presence in the European Union, is disturbed. She's not real. Mr Kaczyński, in his state of mind, is unable to honestly assess the political situation in which we are in and the consequences of the political decision... Enough. Get to the point. ...which forces Mr Morawiecki. In this room many years ago, in the 1940s, probably exactly in 1948, there was a discussion, Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz stood here and justified that Marshall's plan, which was a plan to rebuild the European economy after the war, was detrimental to Poland, not because there was money, but because he felt it was unfavorable because of the fact that through this money some secret powers would enslave Poland. What did you take today, sir? He presented himself as a Polish patriot, representing himself as a man who defends Polish interests. What were the consequences and the reasons for his position, today we know. It was a man who was independent, it was a man who acted at the command of forces from Moscow, and it was a man who was not a Polish patriot, but a man who acted against the interests of the state. Just like you guys. It was a man who... They had a lousy staff. At this point I would like to say to Poles: pay attention, today Mr.Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk and Mr.Kowalski represent the Polish government. It's not a coincidence. In August, your former Polish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Czaputowicz, said in Rzeczpospolita: Today, at the level of ministers and vice-ministers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is no one who has passed through diplomatic school, any level of career or would be at any institution. These people today decide on the Polish position in the European Union. It's about you, gentlemen, about Mr. Szynkowski, about Mr. Kowalski. Poles! Today, Polish foreign policy is decided by those people who - I will repeat Mr Chaputowicz - did not pass any diplomatic school, did not pass any diplomatic levels, for they have never been to any institution. These people today decide whether Poland will participate in the distribution of funds for the reconstruction of the European economy after the crisis. They decide whether we will have European money from the budget, on behalf of local governments and everyone else, and these people today decide whether Poland will be in the Union in a few years. Let's ask ourselves, isn't this a turning point? I appeal to all parliamentarians: you will be accountable for this vote today, you will be settled. So are you. Remember, because you can be judged exactly the same as the Communist Sejm who decided that Poland was not part of a united Europe for 50 years. Thank you. [[Applause]] What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u30	Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Szymon Szynkowski aka Sęk: One sentence I would like to say, because the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government was attacked. I represent the government here, and I'd like to explain. I would like directly to what Mr Nitras has said. You're welcome, Minister. Only then will it cause an avalanche of polemics.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u31	Thank you, Marshal. Don't worry, I will not abuse the mode of speaking, but I must react, because Mr Sławomir Nitras, in a way (Gwar in the Chamber, bell) that goes beyond the rules of the parliamentary debate, attacked the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Kaczynski? Let's discuss the arguments. We may disagree, we differ here in opinions, and if you are talking about the Vice Prime Minister, you are commenting on the state of reality diagnosis, his state of health, this goes beyond the normal parliamentary debate. You can criticize me, Minister Kowalski. We were together in one Young Conservatives Association and then it worked well, that was 20 years ago. What happened to you guys? Since then, you have decided to become a political Happener and I am Deputy Minister of the Polish Government representing Poland in foreign policy. [[Applause]] We have chosen different paths, but certain rules of parliamentary debate apply to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! Oh!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u32	Thank you. That wasn't a corrigendum, Minister. Mr. Sławomir Nitras, in corrigendum mode, and I'm cutting, because if we're going to have this discussion like this, we're not going to get anywhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u33	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Notice, this is not a coincidence. Did the Minister leave in defence of the Republic of Poland? No, he went out to defend Mr. Kaczyński's violation of dignity. Why? Because they're all... What are they all doing? ...like Mr. Kaminski, who lied here an hour ago, like Mr. Szynkowski a.k.a. Sąk, are called to defend the majesty of the sovereign, Mr. Kaczynski. The problem is that the sovereign in Poland is a nation, citizens, not Mr Kaczyński. That's the problem. [[Applause]] And the second thing I want to say very clearly is that I'm not a doctor, which is why I'm not able to assess my health... Go see a doctor. ... or lack of health Mr Kaczyński's mentality, and I didn't say a word about it. Why don't you go see a doctor and stop taking... I was talking about the fact that yesterday's speech by Mr Kaczyński here in the Seym clearly shows that he is unable to really assess the situation in which Poland is in the European Union politically, and I maintain this claim. He's not able to rationally assess this situation, and I'm afraid that under the influence of a man who [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's not able to rationally assess it... Your marshal, you're supposed to react, this is an outrage that you let go of. ...we decide the future of our children and our nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u34	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs. Agnieszka Pomaska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that this debate on sovereignty would be primarily about the fact that the sovereignty of the PiS is understood as defending the interests of colleagues from the Law and Justice. But it turns out that there is still an overriding objective, i.e. to protect the interests of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. And that is what this debate should be about today about what is the main purpose of this so-called. veto. Because it's not about the good and future of Poland... To the point, please refer to the point, not to the point of nonsense. ...but it's about defending the interests of Mr Kaczyński's colleagues and finally Mr Kaczyński. Secondly, it is about providing the Minister of Ziobra with comfortable conditions for further destruction of the independent judiciary in Poland. And that's what this debate is about. Thirdly, the idea is that judges who are not comfortable with the government should be charged with not having a threefold division of power in Poland. Fourthly, it is about not publishing judgments, if they are inconvenient to the authorities, about not publishing laws, if you do not like President Kaczyński or someone else from the Law and Justice. And it's probably the most important thing. We are talking about European money, but we know very well that it is about defending the interests of the Treasury companies and spending public money not as they should be spent. Today we are talking about EU money. And what's all this about? The point is that EU money can be spent by law and justice as is spent today public money, Polish money, Polish taxpayers, from companies of the Treasury. Such examples of abuse of power, excessive use of public funds in Poland today we have plenty. Let me remind you about ventilators - useless. Let me remind you about tests - faulty tests for millions of zlotys. Has anyone suffered any consequences today? No. I would like to remind you, for example, about the famous portal Puszcza.tv, founded by the heads of the Polish Gazeta - PLN 7 million per portal, which probably few of you have heard about - only so that one of the colleagues of the president of Kaczyński (Dzinek) can earn. Has anyone been cleared for this? No. Will anyone be accounted for for how EU funds are spent in Poland if there is no rule of law in Poland? It won't. No. That's the point. Thank you very much. Minister, go out and tell me what this is all about. This is about protecting the interests of President Kaczyński and all your colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's not taking that money.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u36	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that it is rather pathetic that one man, I mean Mr Zbigniew Zioba, will veto the budget. Because it's not Mr. Kaczyński, not Mr. Morawiecki. It is Zbigniew Ziobro, babbling about enslavement, about the loss of sovereignty, who forced these two people to express a preliminary veto to the European Union budget, the multiannual financial framework and the reconstruction fund by the ambassador's mouth at the COREPER meeting. Today I could make a very specific, very deep analysis - for this there is not enough time - which will happen to Poland and Poles after your decision, not only to the dwarf, but to the drastic. But I want to say one number: 637. This is the number of deaths in Poland today. 637. You shouldn't have dragged people out on the street two weeks ago. Madame, I... I need you to focus. It's 637, or maybe more, people. And in a moment we are also talking about entrepreneurs, about nurses, about doctors, we are talking about local governments, we are talking about all those who are waiting for an economic recovery fund built in the European Union. This is EUR 750 billion. For Poland, this would be an additional 30-40% Money. Everyone in Poland is waiting for this. And today you take away their hope, all the things I mentioned, and you contribute to increasing mortality, to deepening hopelessness, to destroying the expectation of defending jobs of many Poles and Poles. Because you're vanquishing the recovery fund. And the other thing. Maybe you will focus, and so will the Minister, and you will understand one thing. You are unproductive because, by vetoing the budget, you will not affect the Parliament and Council regulation on the protection of the European Union's financial interests. These are two different things. Even if you veto, the European Union will adopt this regulation, Minister, it will adopt it by qualified majority. You can't bet a veto. Don't laugh. I don't think you've studied European law. He'll take it. And what's that gonna do? First of all, we are not getting funding for the multi-annual financial perspective. Secondly, the recovery fund will be terminated. And thirdly, even if there is a budget commission, it will be subject to the provisions of this regulation. So the rule of law that you are so afraid of will continue to apply and you will continue to be accounted for not doing your duty to Poles, Poles, the European Union, art. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, Art. 47 Charter of Fundamental Rights. But it will hit me and other Poles. In opposition, but also in your constituents. That's what I want to tell you today, and it's very, very important. You have great responsibility for future generations of Poles, future generations of Poles. But the worst part is that for many years, you're ruining your chances of getting out of this worst crisis. We'll settle you for that, no doubt. We'll settle you for that soon enough. And I want to end with a very... No threats, sir, no threats, easy. But I'm not threatening you, my fellow Member. I speak your mind. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And to the heart. And I want to speak to your heart, too, because if I can't reason, I'll at least try my heart. We'll settle you. And to conclude, I want to say one more very important thing. I am very pleased that the opposition speaks with one voice on this issue. I want to tell you that this is one of the very important moments for which Poles and Poles will unite around the opposition against you. Thank you. We don't wish badly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister spoke about the plan to starve Poland in the name of political interests by politics. That's what Mrs. Barley said. I would like to reveal the identity of this policy, which has exactly this plan. He is Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. He is Minister Zbigniew Ziobro in the name of his political interests that he wants to fill the Polish justice system with his colleagues, he wants to starve Poland. And that's weakening our country. I have a question for you, for Law and Justice, for Prime Minister Morawiecki: Why are you weakening Poland? Because what is the strength of Poland? If you listen, it results in such liberal belief that the power of Poland stems from this or another regulation of the European Union. That is not the case. The strength of Poland stems from the strength of Polish education, the strength of Poland stems from the strength of the Polish economy, the strength of Poland stems from the strength of Polish health service. And you want to weaken Poland, because those measures that will be lost by your idiotic charge are the measures that are to be used to fund Polish health services to repel the COVID crisis, to turn Polish energy into green tracks and introduce shielding programs that will enable us to move away from fossil fuels in a safe and socially just way. These are measures designed to reflect the Polish economy after the crisis. And you want to deprive Poland of these resources. And these measures will not disappear because the European Union will not give up its recovery plan by some unreasonable charge of Poland and Hungary. They're gonna organize, they're gonna organize this reconstruction plan. It's just that money. He'll go to Germany. Why are you weakening Poland and strengthening Germany? Why, speaking much about sovereignty, much about the strength of Poland, do you do something exactly the opposite? Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke very nicely yesterday about the fact that these weaker countries of the European Union should organize themselves against the hegemony of the strongest ones, citing inter alia. to the countries of the south of Europe which have similar interests. Then why don't we have an alliance with the countries of southern Europe? Why aren't they behind us? Maybe because when Poland had the opportunity to show solidarity with the countries of southern Europe, even in the event of a refugee crisis, it refused them this solidarity. So maybe less talking and more concrete, because it goes the other way around. You talk about the alliance of the weak, and you have a weak alliance with Hungary. You are talking about strong Poland, and you are weakening Poland, denying it the necessary resources to grow stronger. Poland will not be strong or weak by this or another regulation of the European Union. It will be strong in its economy, it will be strong in its education, it will be strong in its health services, it will be strong in its relations with its partners in the European Union. You're ruining it all. Why are you weakening Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, what should politics be, especially at such important moments? Politics should be prudent in caring for the common good. And the measure of this discretion is just to make Poland a truly sovereign, secure and democratic state. It will be more sovereign as it grows richer and economically developed as its citizens live in abundance. To do that, you have to look for money. We make part of the money, we pay taxes, we develop, but we've been in the community of countries that share their money for over a dozen years now, and they're making up a common budget. And Poland is a beneficiary, one of the largest European funds in history. We are on the watch that Poland will not lose a single euro. If power has fallen off the path of discretion, prudent care for the common good, then the role of conscious opposition, the role of constructive opposition is to call, first, to remember, and also to promise, secondly, that after taking over power we will restore every euro you have wasted. The veto is a powerful weapon, only its strength is greater not when it is used, but until it is used. It's like an atomic button. No one has ever dared to use it, although there were moments when they said it would be used. Do you realize today that by deciding to use a veto rather than a veto game, because that is something that we would not resent, you can deprive farmers, entrepreneurs, doctors, teachers, all of us who use roads, crèches, kindergartens, senior homes? Unfortunately, you are not doing so for the purpose of diplomacy, which should be a means of achieving goals abroad or in the European Union community. You diplomacy have brought your disputes within the power camp. There's a fight in the power camp. She's been a long time. There's a fight between radicals and Moravian Prime Minister. She's coming out most clearly now. You have overcome the first coalition crisis, but you are unable to resolve it, so Prime Minister Morawiecki, contrary to his earlier statements, has surrendered to a group of radicals. What happened? In July, a step took place towards the European Union's federalisation. That's not what you're discussing at all. About joint debt, about bond issuance. This is a much greater step towards the integration and federalisation of the European Union, moving away from the philosophy of Europe of homelands than what is being discussed, today's discussion of the rule of law. It is disgusting to use the phrase: so-called. rule of law. What's so-called at all. rule of law? This is your concept of the rule of law. You found the definition because no one's ever made it before. There's a rule of law. The rule of law is also part of sovereignty. Because there is no sovereignty without the rule of law. If you have nothing to accuse yourselves of, and you often say that you are the best, why are you afraid of this rule of law? We are. Is that what you're following or not obeying? These are not supposed to be regulations concerning only two countries in the European Union, but all of them. If the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union are beneficial to you, the Court of Justice is cool and the rule of law is good. If it happens, you are not offended by errors - and you are not learning from your mistakes - but you are offended by justice, by the rule of law. You're looking for solutions that complicate the acquisition of these resources. We have three simple points for you to complete. Firstly, respect the rule of law - there will be no problem with obtaining money from the European Union. Secondly, for your mistakes, the PiS government cannot pay Poles and we will be the guardian, we will make sure that no euro is wasted. Thirdly, if the government does not want to spend these funds, they should go directly to local governments. And that is what we will be seeking in the European Union, in the European Parliament, to shorten this transfer so that it is directly and as close as possible to the citizens - that is also, I think, an idea for an interesting move forward, for an interesting debate on the functioning of the European Union at all. We will not allow and we will do everything we can to prevent the loss of funds, which are very much needed today in Poland. Getting out of the crisis, expanding our economy and gaining greater and not less sovereignty. This is a dispute about the nature of Poland's developmental directions. We want Poland strong, prosperous and safe. You want Poland brought astray, Poland sitting in a blind bench of the European Union and being a black sheep - this is a combination of everything that unfortunately is the essence of your governments. Recognize yourselves, return to the path of reasonable care for the common good, treat diplomacy for external use, not for internal warfare. Let Prime Minister Morawiecki complete what he committed to at the summit. He talked about success, and today he wants to deprive Poles of their chances of success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I read politics, quote: Please remember that every year the rich countries of the European Union bring much, much more money out of Poland than the ones we receive from EU subsidies. EU subsidies are a compensatory mechanism. Who's talking? Minister of Justice in the Government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Exactly, that's right. Question: "Why do you encourage outside investors to invest in Poland?" Why does Prime Minister Morawiecki consider further investments in the automotive industry to be a success? After all, these are the elements to strengthen our economy. If someone is taking out money and public authority knows it, we should look for legal solutions to this situation. But let's not combine it, let's not combine it. Because the context of this statement is what? The context of the statement is in line with this text of the resolution which you present here as Law and Justice. The fact that Polish representatives have blocked further work on the budget, on the package of budgetary solutions, is welcomed. I think that if we want to be a serious country, we should use our diplomacy and our skills and our advantages so that this does not happen. This is the success of the Polish government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which we would like to welcome in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u44	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I see the action of the PiS government on this matter, I have a scene in front of me three years ago, when a cheerful group led by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński welcomed Prime Minister Szydło returning from Brussels after a racket, which was then received by Poland on the President of the European Council. And why did she get that beat up? Well, that's because the PiS state had been asleep a few years before, including the president. Lechem Kaczyński, agreed to the Treaty of Lisbon, agreed to such mechanisms which deprived Poland of real influence on the course of events. And so it is today. In July, the European Council adopted provisions that combine the Union's financial interests, that they are protected by the rule of law. That's it, period. This is what Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to in July. The current veto we are discussing now concerns only the EU budget for 2021 and 2027. And of course, the word "veto" should not be feared. Many countries in the history of the European Union or earlier European Communities have repeatedly used the veto instrument as a normal instrument of political pressure as part of political negotiations in the European Union. This is something obvious and used many times in the history of the European Union. That's what a veto is for. However, let us emphasize, Mateusz Morawiecki has already given up Polish sovereignty in July this year, agreeing to link the mechanism of the rule of law with finance. [[Applause]] That's the truth. The rule of law is a lock. It is discretionaryly checked in individual countries. The records are unclear. The procedure has never been tested. Eventually, everything will depend on whether there will be a political will to punish a country or whether it will be possible to obtain a majority for such a decision. A week ago, on Thursday, the European Commission presented the first strategy in the history of the European Union for the promotion of LGBT, among others. mutual recognition of parenting in cross-border situations, which legalizes what is to legalise homo-adoption across the Union. The proposed strategy is incompatible with the Treaties, which are incompatible with the laws of the Member States, and will in future become the basis for the application of the rule of law mechanism - that is what we are aiming at. Anyone who today from the PSL, from the Left, from the Platform is in favour of Poland's linking this July mechanism respecting, honoring and not opposing it, is in favour of the Union, among others. She's enforced our recognition of homo-adoption. Yes, the State of the Civic Coalition and the PSL, that's what you're for today. The extension of parental rights to homosexual couples in EU countries where such law does not apply was the result of Ms Ursuli von der Leyen's message on the state of the Union of 16 September 2020. If you're a parent in one country of the Union, then you're a parent in another country - that's the text Mrs Ursuli von der Leyen. Let us remind you that Prime Minister Morawiecki again announced his success after choosing Mrs von der Leyen as Head of the European Commission in 2019. Yes, it is this success Mr Morawiecki is consuming today. The rule of law is only a pretext, it is political blackmail, political primacy and arbitrary decisions on the substantive assessment of the political decisions of the Member State concerned. It will be a form of political pressure on Poland and Hungary. Today, when we stand here, in this place, we must make it clear to ourselves that Poland should really move on to the offensive. In 2010, when Viktor Orbán became Prime Minister of Hungary, he called on Poland to be the leader of Central Europe. In response, Radosław Sikorski went to Berlin and told Angela Merkel: with you, the brightest lady, we stand and stand. In 2015, when the government in Poland changed, Orbán again said such words. And what did the PiS government do again? He went to Washington and said, "By your side, sir, we stand and stand." Well, today it is decided whether Poland, working together, among others. With Asia's largest area of economic freedom, economic cooperation in the world, it will be a bridge between the East and the West, whether it will lead a multi-vector policy, whether it will really play a role on the political and economic scene of the world, using its position, or we will establish our peripheral position in the Euro-Atlantic structures towards the West, which colonizes us politically, economically and culturally. [[Applause]] This is a struggle for real sovereignty. It is important to be clear: the Moravian government gave up this sovereignty Unfortunately, it's already in July. Proceed with the offensive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u47	There's no easy way to listen to those moss stories and ferns that we hear here from both sides. You blame each other for losing in the Union on matters that are important to us. But the truth is that this is how the Union works, the guillotine that we put our head in a long time ago. The Union is constructed precisely in such a way that we have nothing to say there so that we are a province whose rulers, local governors, are bribed with beads. They come and give these beads away to the citizens, hiding the cost of this fun from them. These are the beads of the rosary, be careful. That's how guillotine works. If you put your head in there, she's gonna cut that head off sooner or later. It's just extremely naive to think that somehow we're gonna get that head off, that maybe it's gonna go sideways. And yes, of course the European Union applies double standards, but complaining about it now by PiS politicians is some kind of political sandbox. Really? Didn't you know this was gonna happen when you signed the Treaty of Lisbon? I mean, we're the two of us. We have already said in 2003, in 2009, we repeat all the time that we are buying a one-way ticket - to the status of the Brussels colony. All this short time in the European Parliament, I have tried to get one simple thing to everyone here: the European Union will become one country, with one government, with one currency, with one army and under the leading role of Germany. No illusions, the direction of the march is decided. Nobody's gonna ask us if we're okay with this or not. Either we sign up for this project on such terms or we don't. And then we have to get out of it. Nobody's gonna ask us. In this case, the left half of the room is even more honest in a way, because they're not trying to pretend they're fighting for independence. During the exposé I asked the Prime Minister how he imagined reforming the Union from the inside, because, to my knowledge, the Union will reform us. Now what? How's the reform of the Union going from the inside? On the other hand, the blame for the mobility package on the PiS, which Mr Rosati was saying here yesterday, is also hypocritical, because it is your political groups - Socialists, Democrats and EPP - that voted the mobility package in the main part - if memory serves me correctly, correct me. But PiS, the PiS group voted against it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't convince your colleagues and you didn't save Poland from this. So that there are no illusions, this is how the European Union will work. If we remain in the Union on the basis that we have signed up to it, we are unable to negotiate and improve our negotiating position, especially with a political class that calls for foreign forces to help for internal combat. Thank you very much, sir. Package... It's a link between funds and the rule of law... Thank you. There's only one sentence left. Linking the rule of law with funds is obviously a mechanism that serves to destabilise the situation in Poland in reality when they want to change power. And you can't not realize it, but you've inherited Poland in this state... Thank you very much, sir. ...just Poland on a short leash of the Brussels colony. Apparently, you've got tougher knees, and you don't mind. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u48	In mode... In what mode? It's not like he's spoken before. Please, by correcting Mr Dariusz Rosati.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Sosnierz was kind enough to call me to the floor, so I would like to clarify the misunderstanding resulting from the fact that he really was quite briefly in the European Parliament and does not fully know how procedures are going. We managed not to allow harmful rules for Polish entrepreneurs to be adopted at Council level, and that is why the law has never been adopted in Parliament. On the other hand, the PiS government lost the case in the Council, not in Parliament. In Parliament, the majority has always been in favour of these discriminatory solutions. I would therefore like to correct that the position of the Polish government has weakened so much that in the Council the PiS government was unable to bring together an adequate alliance and a proper coalition to prevent these rules from being adopted. [[Applause]] And that's the truth. So what your friend said isn't true? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u50	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting time for the question-- 1.5 minutes, just like the marshal asked me to. Janusz Kowalski from Law and Justice will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sovereignty aches you very much, Polish sovereignty aches you very much and that is why you are submitting resolutions which in fact support not the position of the Republic of Poland, but the position of the German Republic. This is a disgrace and a scandal. Janusz, you're hit. PiS station. It is a pity that the citizens of the Civic Platform did not hear the excellent speech of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki yesterday, who said clearly - and that was the message - that Polish sovereignty could not and will never be the subject of trade. If you were in charge, you would trade Polish sovereignty not only for billions of euros, which we would not have received, but also for deceptive positions. You had positions in the European Union. But you were on the Platform, like the Platform ruled. You had Buzek, you had Tusk, and what was the result? Today, ladies and gentlemen, is a historic moment. If you really want to support the Polish government and the Republic of Poland in the negotiations, support the position put forward by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki is behind 235 Members of the Law and Justice, who say clearly: Sovereignty is not for sale. I would like Members of the Civic Platform to finally start thinking in Polish, not obeying Berlin's orders, Manfred Weber's, and not submitting resolutions that are in fact Berlin's support. Shock. Are you talking to me, Janusz?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u52	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, the Civic Coalition. But I have a big favor to ask of you gentlemen. Do you want us to interrupt the moment you speak? That's not what this is about. Let's hear each other out. Everyone has time to speak. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u53	We're at a very difficult time. The world around us is dangerous. We have a pandemic that we need to deal with, which the whole world, Europe, has to deal with. At a time like this, a lot of such high-flying words are spoken, such as patriotism. And is there a patriot who wants to deprive Poland of funds? Is there someone who wants to get us out of the European Union? Is the patriot the one who deprives us of the rule of law, and what's more, wants us to be weakened and not have allies? At this time, it is very important to decide what patriotism really is and what is important for our country. [[Applause]] No one who says the interests of his group are important, and puts him above the interests of the state, can speak of himself. as a patriot. I have the impression that if we do not adopt a resolution against the veto together as a whole Parliament - it is about working with the Union to be a serious partner - we will show that we are not worth anything, because we do not care about the security of our country. I would also like to say that for Europe Poland is not just a PiS. They are also other citizens who think about democratic values, about security, about cooperation. Therefore, it is very important that today we adopt a single resolution supporting Poland's participation in the Union, [[♪ The bell ♪]] participation in the whole process. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u54	Thank you very much, Marshal. The next question will be asked by Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Lewis Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Because I am now addressing the absent prime minister of the government with the question: How is it that you are not ashamed? How come you're not ashamed to be such a weak head of government? How come you're only qualified to be the president of a bank, the president of a bank called PiS, in which PiS politicians, incompetent ministers and crooks set up their shares and interests? Ah... You got in a fight. Because you serve them, not the interests of Poland. You're not worthy of being president, chairman... You're not worthy of a function... Oh, Jesus, but you've caught on, Member. Oh... ...premiere of Poland. You don't have a spine. You allow scouts and fanatics from Solidarny Poland to play the interest of our country. You're bringing Poland out of the Union. Do you have people's permission to do that? No. Because of your fear of Ziobra and his men, you veto a budget that will allow people who, unlike you and your colleagues sitting in these benches today, sit in companies of the Treasury sitting on all kinds of jobs, have lost nothing. You're tangled up. For Kaczyński, for Morawiecki, for Ziobra, these are just words. You. Prime Minister. Member, please go to a good upbringing class. You don't know how to behave, you behave yourself. For people (the bell) this is the life and fate of their families. Because you veto the budget, especially the recovery fund, after the pandemic, we could lose 30% of the budget you negotiated in July. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Go ahead and finish it. Last sentence. Pathetic sweats. Your motto, Prime Minister Morawiecki, can be described briefly: after me even the flood. And Poland is sinking now. Thank you. [[Applause]] Pathetic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u56	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you very much to watch your time. I've extended the time to ask questions. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! Well, always in the history of Poland, the newest and the more distant one, we ended very badly when particular interests of certain groups, politicians began to dominate the right of state, over the general interest. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the United Rights, we have a moment like this. Are we deciding today on Poland's interests or our own interests? Minister Ziobro, and his loved ones, effectively blackmailed, I believe, a reasonable majority of the politicians of the United Right. He's driving you all astray, but it's the reason he's dragging Poland's business behind him. Perhaps the polls, ladies and gentlemen, will be encouraging for a short time. But I'm afraid, I think, like most of us in this room today, among the opposition, what you're going to say to the Poles, if this policy goes down in a year, in two years' time, if it turns out that waving the sword will once again end in a drastic flop. We're keeping it from that. I think that reason should prevail with you too, because it is in the interest of Poland today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to benefit from the presence in the European Union, not from it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u58	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u59	I do not believe that you are unable to understand that this is the kind of conflict with the European Union, such a clapping of blackmail on the part of the European Union, you are aggravating the negotiating situation of Poland, changing our and so hopeless situation to an even worse one. But that's the charge. to both sides, because you're all acting like you're going to... Because, on the other hand, we also had attempts to enter into the constitution and now we have an idea of some faithful charity at the outset. You're acting like a man who's going to the boss for a raise, and for the good morning he says, "Boss, I can't do it without your company, I can't do it outside of your company, I'm going to die under the fence, I have to work here, and I'm no good here, only Belarus, poverty and hunger. And now we're gonna negotiate my raise hard. That's how you guys act. You must have the opportunity to negotiate hard also from the European Union if you want to count there in any way. And so the situation is hopeless, and faithful ladies and gentlemen only make it worse. What are you trying to do this way? Think about it - King Stanisław Poniatowski also thought that if he was Katarzyna's favorite Tsarina, she would let him do politics in his own backyard. You also think Berlin will allow you to behave well... It's exactly the opposite. ...to govern yourself freely? No, it'll be the same. Remember the powerless whinings of Mrs Jazłowiecka - that is to say to Mr Rosati - as she protested, she asked for the vote to be repeated. Do you remember what it was like? They didn't repeat that vote to you when they grouped thousands of your amendments to push it through by the end of your term of office. Do you remember what it was like? And they'll do the same, no illusions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Politics is about power, and you're weakening that power of your country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution presented today by Minister Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, states that the rule of the rule of law is formulated in the article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. I am very proud that in yesterday's speech Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said the words, which I will quote: We will do everything to restore legal certainty. And about this legal certainty in these two articles - once again, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Treaty on European Union - we have everything clearly written. And this legal certainty will be fought for by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, because, I quote, we are too strong, rich Europe and too strong Poland in a strong Europe. Thank you very much for this attitude and I hope that Poland will not be alone in this fight. I would like to ask Minister Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, who is considering joining the defence of European values set out in the treaties ratified by the Republic of Poland, because we know that it is not just Poland and Hungary. [[Applause]] Well, three countries out of 27.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u62	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we all remember a movie like this - or maybe a book - Karier Nicodemus Dyzma. There is such a scene as the main character appointed as a landlord in Koborów says, "Would you still hold on to it, just to hold on, maybe a month, maybe two, and counting so much money. Yesterday's speech by Mr Morawiecki was just like this: just to hold on, maybe a month, maybe two. President Kaczyński, don't cancel me, I'll do whatever Minister Ziobro wants. In the name of my own interests... To the point, sir, on the subject, on the subject. ...in the name of your own interests you will trade the interests of Poland. In the name of Mr Kaczyński's interests, in the name or because of your coalition problems, you take Poles from European money in fact. This debate that has been going on today is not a debate In fact, about the rule of law, this is a debate about impunity. You want to buy yourself a few more months of impunity because a law-abiding test like this... you wouldn't go through any procedure, even if you were writing the procedure yourself. What we see on our streets, gasping and beating with women's clubs, police cordons, pandemic scams, that's your everyday life, that's your rule of law. All you fight for is your impunity. Famous Nowak, 35,000. For the chair of Orlen's president. Look at your friends. I know you're in pain. I know it really hurts, but in the name of some elementary decency, do not sell Polish interests [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just because you're two or three months old, you want to stay alive. You're going to go in disgrace anyway. [[Applause]] Poor guy. Wishful thinking. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left. [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madame, you really are not fit for a jamming machine. I see. You're still discussing. No. I ask you to calm down and ask questions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister here said that the Prime Minister was followed by 235 Members of the PiS, and I would like 80% to stand. Poles and Poles, because so many Poles and Poles support our functioning in the European Union. Therefore, you should first of all [[Applause]] listen to the voice of Poles, not themselves - to make decisions on this matter in the name of their interests. I'm paying attention to one thing. 10 million Poles, we represent them. You have the right, of course, to veto, just like any country in the European Union. You're talking about the countries using it. Yeah, just look at the reasons they've been using it. They were really fighting for their business, and what are you fighting for? That there should be no record of the rule of law in Poland. Yeah, it's crazy. Totally crazy. I draw attention to the fact that this is the attitude that causes at least 25 other countries to be, in short, against us. Therefore, I have a question: Do you realize that such behaviour can lead to Poland leaving the European Union? Are you prepared to tell the Poles and Poles that, as in England, you are playing with our existence in the European Union today? Second thing. Are you prepared? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for how are those 106 or 105 billion zlotys that we won't get from the reconstruction fund to supplement in budgets for the next two years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u66	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the last five years, we have heard from the rulers that they are law-abiding, just - they have laws and justice in their name - that they never violate any constitutional or national or European laws. They calmly reformed the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court in accordance with the Constitution. Yesterday, no one else from the Sejm stands, like Prime Minister Kaczyński says: if there is a rule of law in Poland, you will sit. Therefore, yesterday, Prime Minister Kaczyński admitted that we had no rule of law in Poland for five years. Three organs of law. I would like to make it clear that today, in the name of Zbigniew Ziobra's fear of Solidarna Polska, Prime Minister Kaczyński and Prime Minister Morawiecki are abandoning their own goals which they had previously set themselves and their willingness to take care of the development of the economy of the Republic. Please refer to the project, not some... I want to tell you, don't be afraid of Ziobra. The Prime Minister will have the full support of Poland and Poles if the rule of law warns Poland and Poles about the implementation of the plan of Zdzich Sokal, which you announced not so long ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is good that Poland will not survive this nationalization plan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of the opposition is a fairly serious deficit of pro-Polish thinking. That's one thing. Secondly, I ask you to poison public opinion with your political illiteracy. What you are saying shows that you have very little knowledge of the integration processes that are taking place within the European Communities and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time, the European Commission has been pursuing a policy of double standards for many years. These are environmental, energy and financial issues. One country punishes, and the other possibly pets. The intention of the draft resolution we have tabled is also to draw attention to the fact that the European Commission's policy undermines confidence in itself and in the EU institutions within the framework of the European Union's structures. I have a question for the rapporteur. Is there really a chance that, on the basis of this draft resolution, but also negotiating policy, we will be able to avoid in the future the application of the non-negotiable on the subject of the so-called. The rule of law is very vague in this regulation of the German Presidency. Because this is important for Poland, for our sovereignty in the coming years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is important for Poland and other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u70	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u71	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the concept of legal certainty that the Prime Minister referred to yesterday, and today we have also heard it from Members of the PiS, is only one component of the concept of the rule of law, that is, the concept of the rule of law. According to settled case law of the European Court of Justice on the concept of rule of law, the rule of law, i.e. the Polish rule of law, consists of six elements, of which legal certainty is only one. The others include: legality of the adoption of acts, prohibition of arbitrary action by state authorities, effective legal protection and independence of courts, legal certainty, equality with law and... They stole it. It's lost, and so is the definition of the rule of law. The malice of the dead. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Excuse me, it's gone. I'll tell everyone to remember again. So we have: first, legality, second, legal certainty, thirdly, prohibition of arbitraryness, fourth, effective judicial protection and independence and impartiality of the courts (the bell), fifth, separation of powers, i.e. division of power, and sixthly equality before the law. Oh, Darek, Darek. Sixth, don't steal. So this is the whole concept of the rule of law, and I propose... Listen up, people. ...do not simply choose cards, only one element, because you have to talk about it all. Time. Secondly, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister is not here, so I thought that Minister Kowalski, who gained a momentary publicity thanks to his call: veto or death, would answer. Since yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we have been trying to convince you that veto makes no sense, because the rule of law regulation will come into force regardless of that. Your marshal, because it's been over a minute. Thank you very much. Especially since there's nothing smart about it. He doesn't talk. So the veto will cause us not to have the resources. On the other hand, death according to Mr Kowalski's view means that we will have these funds at our disposal. Mr... So I suggest you consider whether this veto of yours makes any sense at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u72	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! You know I'm not interrupting anyone. Each of you finishes your lines. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to propose a little in spite of the mood of the House's thought experiment, which is, in short, that we take seriously these ideas that the Government of Law and Justice is reporting, i.e. waving a saber and announcing the possibility of filing a veto, which would significantly reduce the possibilities of Poland's development. This side of the parliament bench, the opposition thinks it's crazy, in short, but you're obviously going this way. Where are you going to take us? In other words, what's plan B? And here - a request to the government's representative for written information on how the government is planning an investment cycle, what points of the national recovery plan it wants to eliminate in a situation where it will or will have to veto the multiannual financial plans in which the national recovery plan will be abolished, because the dear state, High Izbo, is not that the debate on European funds is only here. They've been working on this since the summer of this year, i.e. since Prime Minister Morawiecki announced his success, local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship itself the initial conclusions amounted to over PLN 400 billion and this is no exception. All voivodships plan to do so. Inform the nation, inform Poles that all these plans, all these investment proposals must be thrown into the basket. Thank you very much, sir. So I'm asking for this information in writing, broken down by unit: either self-government or one, two, three. I hope I've been properly understood. I'm gonna need that information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u74	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u75	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Any legal action must be based on clear, uniform, precise, pre-defined legal provisions. This is the case for both Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Pacta sunt servanda - that's an old legal rule. Why, then, have we been pursuing regularly in the European Parliament for 5 years, which is supported by the Polish opposition? So I have a question for you, dear opposition, why don't you stand in the truth and ask yourself the most important, obvious question? It is known that consent to this mode, which bears the mark of the reproduction right... There's nothing to smile about, because we know the reproduction law very well from the right past system. We were smiling about something else. With regard to this situation, when the European Commission, with the German Presidency by the regulation, wishes to annul the Treaties and otherwise operate the bodies of the European Union, it is obviously a duplication right. And the question to be asked is one thing: whether the fate of Poland, thanks to this duplicate law, is to be decided by Poles in democratic elections or several - Brussels officials, of course - officials who can only dream of democratic [[♪ The bell ♪]] legitimizations and who will be able to interpret in any way the concept of the rule of law over which my previous speaker from the Civic Platform was this way a moment ago? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a debate about the budget of the European Union. This is a debate about the future of Poland, about our vital interests, about values. It is in the vital interest of Poland to be in the European Union and to be as strong as possible there, and in the interests of every citizen, every one of us, also in your interest, is to respect the rule of law, it is that the law is respected so that everyone is equal to the law and that power cannot exploit its advantage over the citizen. And Mr Morawiecki, in the name of power - not even in the name of his power, but in the name of Jarosław Kaczyński's power - wants to destroy something that is the vital interest of Poland. And it is in the name of Jarosław Kaczyński - as he said yesterday - to put whomever he wants in prison. [[Applause]] But to the point, sir, in substance. You guys are clinging to each other. It is also about having a stronger position in front of Jarosław Kaczyński. That is why he is able to destroy our national interests, also deprive us of our money. Voice from the room:...according to each other. Do you know what this document is? Do you know what this resolution is? This is an act of national treason. [[Applause]] And every person who votes in favour of this document sign an act of national treason. You, in the name of your dirty business, are capable of destroying our national interests. Our future. History will remember you as traitors. Exactly. I heard from the DCI. National?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it is regrettable to say that the imperative that opposition representatives have been following since the beginning of the previous term of office is: the worse it is in Poland, the better it is for them. We've seen it on our hands for a few weeks, it's about what's going on in the streets during the pandemic. In turn, the Government of Law and Justice builds a just, prosperous Poland. This fair Poland is also a healthy judicial system. And here the reform of the judiciary, which is conducted by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, is very often modelled on solutions that were implemented in other countries of the European Union. Minister! I have a question: as regards the politicised system for the selection of judges, which is in other countries of the European Union, have these countries also tried to punish for the fact that these solutions have been introduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Very good speech, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u80	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened - this is a question to the ruling coalition - that the proud Spanish lost their sense of sovereignty? What happened that brave Lithuanians renounce sovereignty and their independence? How is it that so many European countries suddenly renounced patriotism and their homeland and go straight to the German dictatorship? After all, the only ally you have really is a man who has done such corrupt work on EU money that the Union has said that it will not finance the construction of Hungarian oligarchy. He's really got a wall behind him. This is your ally. [[Applause]] But your friends are... And you in this case behave, ladies and gentlemen, like a hustler who is caught by the hand says: Poland, Poland, because it has the impression that theft of these small coins in this way will escape notice. I'm sorry, who's here... Well, the worst crime you can do is ridicule Polish patriotism, [[Applause]] ridicule the rank of Poland as a country that simply understands its sovereignty. You are scullers in this matter using the words: homeland, Poland and sovereignty only to really... You're gonna have to weigh your words. ...to protect your little business, [[Applause]] Just like Orbán does, only Orbán has no choice, and you have no choice. Use it. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Heads of Government of the 27 countries of the European Union agreed in July this year to link future expenditure with the European Union budget with the rule of law, but this mechanism was intended to refer to the Treaty provisions on the protection of the European Union's financial interests, so it was intended to combat the threat of spending European funds. This is about corruption, mismanagement or embezzlement. That's why I want to ask you questions. How Poland fulfils the rule of law contained in Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union to date? Is it true that we are a model country here, that it is in our country that we are implementing this treaty in a precise and very precise manner and in accordance with the law? I have one more question. Is it true that today in Holland you can... Excuse me, but I'll read it. On Monday, the District Court of Warsaw accepted the application of the prosecutor's office and refused to hand over the marriage which took the autistic son from the Dutch institution and came with him from the Netherlands to Poland. The couple are being chased by a European arrest warrant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The conduct of the Dutch authorities must be regarded as extremely inhuman and barbaric. Is it true that this is how the rule of law is understood, [[Applause]] The rule of law that manifests itself in taking children, sick children, children with autism, and euthanasia? And is it true that there is such a law in the European Union today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u84	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the words the previous speaker said, the time is for a moment of truth. It is not the Union that has changed, it is PiS who wants to bring Poland out of the Union. You're doing this to defend your own interests, to surrender to Rocosh Zbigniew Ziobra, to maintain the power that's slipping out of your hands. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain these lunatic actions, these threats, a veto for the EU budget and for the Fund for Reconstruction, for support that will help to come out of the pandemic, which is an opportunity to revolutionise the Polish economy, to put it on new tracks, to modernise, to energy transformation, to fight for the climate. In the name of your own interests, you want to deprive Poles and Poles of the chance for a safe tomorrow. And let me remind you that the rule of law, to which Poland has committed itself, stems directly from the principles of the Treaty. Respect for the law, judicial protection, non-discrimination. We agreed to this in the 2003 referendum and joined the European Union in 2004. Why are you discrediting Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the international arena, are you hurting Poland? Why do you want to get involved in this? The Sejm, too? We disagree and say veto for your anti-EU and anti-Polish veto. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, there was a reflection, because there was a gentleman here who carries such a beautiful name in Polish literature, but he is a man who was recorded in such a way that said such disgusting things about Poland, who... What are you talking about? ...he said such mean things about Poland. If he's talking about Polish patriotism today, please excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm just having a vomit reflex. It's just something disgusting. Quote Morawiecki. Another matter, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter concerning the image of Poland in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you saying that we want to get Poland out of the European Union? This is bullshit. But why are you saying that what we're doing right now is a matter of PiS? Ladies and gentlemen, how many men are behind us? Not 235, as it was said, only about 10 million Poles... Less and less. ... It trusted us and told us that the way that Law and Justice go is the way that is right for the interests of Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. And whether you like it or not, we will take care of Poland's interests in the international arena. You're not gonna scream. Another point: How do you deal with the issue where the monument to Charles Marks is unveiled nowadays in Germany, which, by the way, is a gift from the People's Republic of China? And all the most important officials of the European Union (the bell) are running to open it there. Here's another thing. One of the Members of the Left here said that here we are playing the European Union, just as the British government did, they led the UK to speak out of the European Union. Not them, ladies and gentlemen. This was done by the British community. But we Poles are clear: the place of Poland is in the European Union, in a good, noble European Union, where we care about all these values which are close to us, Poles, are important. And we will fight for this European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few hours, the Prime Minister will try to convince the EU leaders that the Polish rule of law is safe. Because he's not. So I have a question for you: Is there a political harassment of judges in a law-abiding country? [[Applause]] It was only yesterday that the immunity of Judge Igor Tulei was removed. This was done by an unlawful Disciplinary Chamber contrary to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Tuley's politically persecuted because he's exposed the facts to you. [[Applause]] on illegal voting in the column room. Disciplinary proceedings are already taking place against a thousand judges for being independent of the politicians of the current authority. And the Prime Minister will talk about the rule of law? These are the marks of the dictatorship. You do not defend Polish sovereignty, you defend Zbigniew Ziobra and his crazy policy of destroying the Polish rule of law. And you're really gonna keep doing this? [[Applause]] You will really continue to defend Ziobra and his sick policy and will spend 150 billion euros on this, which Poles are waiting for. [[Applause]] Polish and Polish economy? High Izbo! Only a crazy person or a traitor can say today that he welcomes blocking the work on the EU budget. Look who's talking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u90	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Violetta Porowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good, very necessary resolution reminding that Poland is - in capital letters, please states - a sovereign country, reminiscent of the most important importance, among others. interhuman solidarity, which is so often forgotten by the opposition, and even grossly perverts it. This solidarity was sought and sought by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, whom I thank very much, we all thank that, thinking about the future of Poland, he also thinks about the future of the European Union. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to present examples, perhaps from this year, of an exceptional year of pandemic, when the Polish government led by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki showed solidarity with other countries of the European Union. Why? That is, in order for Poland to see, the opposition heard that we are not pariahs of Europe, we are not beggars of Europe, as you want to tell us. Because it's not about economics, it's about ideological matters. About single-sex marriages, about their ability to adopt children, about taking disabled children to Polish parents. Sales of children in supermarkets. What kind of nonsense do you say? The truth was told by Mr Kierwiński, the truth was told by Mr Kierwiński. It's not about the rule of law (the bell), because it's about the so-called rule of law. The rule of law does not submit, this one will have a blocked budget, so don't lie about the Polish money. Pretty good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The majority of the Seym wants to pass a resolution today, which has among others. such words: The Polish Sejm welcomes the fact that Polish representatives have blocked further work on the package of budgetary solutions. Are you guys normal? [[Applause]] No. We have a health crisis, an economic crisis, a social crisis and a public finance crisis in Poland. Does the Member know what he is saying? And we have a government in Poland that adds to this the fifth crisis - the international crisis. [[Applause]] Only the enemy of the country or the madman wants Poland to be weak and alone at the same time. Do you know what you're saying? You're not crazy, not all of you. You are enemies of Poland. You want to continue to destroy the rule of law and free courts with impunity, because you have to have party courts, you have to have party courts to defend your thieving interests. To defend the Banas, the Szumowskis, the Biereckis. But I have bad news for you: the money of Poles unfortunately may be lost, but the mechanism of linking finance with the rule of law will still enter into force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the European Parliament voted it already in 2019 and the majority is qualified and Morawiecki agreed to it in July. That's why you need to control yourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u94	Please, Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u95	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You guys are kind of right. Unlike you. We're all right. Europe needs a debate on the rule of law. Today you started the day of the meeting by telling about some alleged irregularities in the functioning of the Polish Police. Okay, let's explain this, but let's also talk about how the demonstrations are pacified in Greece, now, this week, how the demonstrations in Germany are pacified. You're shooting at journalists. Let's talk about what's going on in France and how judges are treated there. Let's talk about why politicians in Spain are locked up in prison. Let us talk about the effects of the emigration crisis caused by Germany on today's situation, on the security of citizens in Europe today. But today we're talking about a budget, a budget that's supposed to be free of political pressure. Poland and Hungary oppose the mechanism of arbitrariness, discretion and we speak this openly. There are also other countries which have more and more doubts about the proposal to grant the European Commission non-contractual powers, because in the present form this proposal is a mechanism of an illegal paradox. Minister! Please remind the High House how this mechanism of discretion, arbitrariness, conditionality in this form violates both the Treaties and the [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish constitutional order. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u96	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u97	In July, the Prime Minister said that a veto would be like shooting yourself in the head, now we hear veto, veto, veto or death. No veto, no connection to the rule of law would be like death to a government policy that the rule of law doesn't have anything to do with it. [[Applause]] And for me, it's a shout: veto, veto, it's like amnesty, amnesty in a penitentiary. Of course, you want a veto so you can steal so you can break the law and treat Poland as a big dress, from which you can get as much as possible. [[Applause]] You often refer to Great Britain. Great Britain actually threatened a veto. How did it end? So that in the end they brought her out of the European Union. Usually, these countries, which were net contributors, were threatened by vetoes, which had to be added to the budget of the European Union. We get more than we pay. 100 billion per year This is what we will receive in the near future together with the Fund for Reconstruction. What does that mean? 100 billion is our entire health budget, 100 billion is your two 500+ programmes, 100 billion is the money that determines the life of Poles, economic life, education life, culture, health. That's what you want to take away the Poles. Veto is treason and you want to commit treason. [[Applause]] Bravo! Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u98	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice. Oh... We are looking forward to speaking, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate is a debate about the future of Poland, whether we will decide our affairs here in Warsaw, in Parliament... Nowogrodzka. ...or will it be decided for us by some Brussels officials who have not been chosen and who have not been given the right to do so. For years the opposition has wanted the liquidation of Polish sovereignty. Disgusting Polish past, Tusk spoke of Poland being such an abnormal. Who's crazy is crazy. But history will assess who was right, who fought for Polish interests and who acted well for her good. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard in Poland, not so long ago, people claiming that the service of Russia is equivalent to the service of their country. Jaruzelski even called for help from Russian troops. Now in Poland we have people, even the same as then, claiming that the service of the European Union is equivalent to the service of the country. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the strength of Poland comes from the spirit of national leadership, and today the Polish Parliament can provide a tool for our national leadership to fight hard for Polish interests, and humility and submission serve only (the bell) to strengthen and consolidate the captivity to which you want to sell Polish interests, offering us a kind of golden cage. You just want to steal horses. I ask you, Mr applicant: will this resolution strengthen Poland in the negotiations? Which one? Third? The one we're talking about... Yours is... Our better. Will it strengthen Poland in negotiations with the European Union, in defence of our national interests? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u100	Thank you very much. And here's the secretary... [[Game in the O.R.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Simon Szynkowski, aka Sęk. But he's the applicant, he's the minister, your marshal. It's a government mandate. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Marshal, one more part, supplement)]] I'm guessing the Minister's gonna approve his project, and he's gonna criticize the rest. No, it can't be. On behalf of the government, I wanted to commend my project. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Budka, at the beginning of his club speech, probably in the first sentence, said that we do not know what solidarity is. Solidarity is precisely that we have a common denominator, a common area of action. Mr Budka, other parliamentary clubs, Law and Justice, we are all trying to find a common denominator. That is solidarity, that we can establish something together. This resolution gave you this opportunity. This draft resolution could give - the power of unanimity of the Polish Sejm in this matter - a stronger mandate of negotiation to the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. The Sejm will adopt this resolution, but if it were adopted unanimously, it would certainly have a stronger dimension. You do not want to show this expression of solidarity. And you say we don't understand what solidarity is. It's very specific. On the other hand, we know what solidarity is. In this particular year of the 40th anniversary of Solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, we show this solidarity in the face of pandemics in practice. Mr Budka said that we only take money from the European Union and basically We treat her almost like an ATM. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, we have helped Belarus, we have helped Ukraine, we have helped 14 other countries with bilateral assistance, sending masks, disinfectants, medical protection measures. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We sent medical missions to several countries, among others. Italy, Slovenia, the United States. As part of NATO-Wskie aid mechanism, we are the third largest donor in the United States and Great Britain. [[Applause]] We don't know what solidarity is? This is the Polish gene of solidarity with others at this difficult time. Mr Shejna asked if I had finished European law. You just asked the right question. Yeah, I graduated from European law at the university. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. [[Applause]] You're done with European law. If you're interested, my master's work defended in 2006 was on EU law-making procedures. Innovative work, based - which you will probably like - on German sources, because this type of work was not in Poland at the time. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're a traitor. In the meantime, the Treaty of Lisbon has changed a bit, but don't be afraid, I am updating my knowledge and I know how law is created in the European Union, and I will be happy to explain to you the details of the creation of this law. I would like to express my gratitude to President Grzyb that he read the text of the resolution as he quoted it. I would like to explain that this one element that you raised your doubts about was already removed from the draft resolution by means of an amendment tabled by the PiS club. Mr Paszyk asked if we would represent our own interests or the interests of Poland. I do not know if the Member is present. I would like to answer that we will represent and always represent Poland's interests. Mrs Milczanowska asked which countries stand side by side with us in defence of values. These countries are more than just a simple vote at the COREPER meeting of the ambassadors... What? ...which shows even the letter of Prime Minister Janša, and not all of them want to stand on the front line right now. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Bravo! However, I would like to make it clear that if there is no acceptance of the entire budget package, unanimity on this, then voting on the so-called. the conditionality mechanism has no meaning. I would also like to make this clear to Mr Szejna, Mr Rosati, because he also spoke very strongly about it. That's not true. Then I'll explain it to you. No, I know better than you do. If you're having second thoughts, I'll explain it to you. Okay, I'll put you on the list of people I'll give explanations to. Mrs Paluch asked whether Poles should decide how we spend money or whether we spend Brussels officials. I answer: it is Poland and Poles who should decide how EU money is spent from the budget. [[Applause]] Mr Rychlik asked whether countries were being punished for politicalising the judicial system. I told you this system is politicized in many countries. Enough to say, not to mention that Mr Harbarth, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in Germany, was an active CDU politician. Many other examples could be given. The European Commission has never been interested in these issues, Mr President. Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz asks if judges are being persecuted in a law-abiding country. I don't think you have an MP. I'm here. You're an MP. I answer: No, there is no persecution of judges in the right-wing country, there is no persecution of judges in Poland. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Tuleja, Tuleja. Mr Milewski asks how the mechanism violates the Treaties. Well, you'd have to do a longer line here. In short (The Bell), the Treaties do not provide for the possibility of such control, they have not transferred competence to the EU institutions in this respect and those competences which have not been transferred to the EU institutions are conferred on the Member States in accordance with Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Treaty on European Union, so-called the principle of recognition. I'm sending it back to this article. Finally, the question - thank you for this question to President Suski - will this resolution strengthen the mandate of the Polish Prime Minister, the Polish Government to negotiate. Cherry on the cake. Yes, of course. It could have been even stronger if you hadn't shouted, laughed, didn't make any comments, didn't make speeches without asking questions. I expected more questions, but only some decided to ask questions as part of questions, some simply limited themselves to their own political speeches, not always cultural ones. You could have, but you missed your chance. You have lost your chance to serve Poland - once again. I'm sorry. On the other hand, we will adopt this resolution, which will definitely strengthen the mandate of the Polish government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u102	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Lewis. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u103	Dear Minister! I congratulate you on your excellent education and knowledge of European law, but it seems to me that you are either using your knowledge for the wrong purpose, or you have not carefully read certain books and are now interpreting them. That's one thing. Second, in correction mode. You didn't just answer my questions. You said I asked questions and you answered them. Well, today answer honestly to the voters, here and now, before the majesty of the Sejm, whether it is true that if you veto the budget of the European Union, the fund, destroy the future of Poles and Poles, the rule of law procedure will still apply in accordance with the regulation. Say it here and now, tell everyone that your veto makes no sense that it is thoughtless, it is dishonest that it destroys the future of Poles and that, first, it will result in taking money, 30%, 40%, 50% and secondly, you will not avoid the fact that the rule of law in Poland will be controlled by twenty several countries of the European Union (the bell), because the countries to which you refer are Hungary and Slovenia. What's gonna be controlled? Thank you very much, sir. Hungary, where there is corruption, and Slovenia, where is the Prime Minister, who still considers Trump President. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u105	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I would like you to answer me a simple question, then: If you veto this budget, will Poland have money or not? If you answer that yes, that's okay, that's okay. Just prove it to me. And if you say no, she won't have any money, then I want to tell you that this is a situation where you deprive Poland of money and deprive Poland of the rule of law, and at the same time you force Poland to do what you don't want it to do. Thank you very much. So she'll be subject to a control mechanism. Thank you very much. I would also like to ask you if you have heard of the macro-economic conditionality that determines the expenditure of European funds depends on the fulfilment of European law? Your marshal, equal treatment we expect...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u106	I treat everyone right in this room. The Member has made a different correction. Now I invite Minister Michael Wójcik. And in what mode? As Minister of Government, he has the right to speak anywhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u107	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I haven't started talking yet, and you're already yelling. Because I am a constitutional minister, I have the right to refer to certain things. On what? They're afraid of the truth. Your Marshal, I regret that as a Marshal of Poland... I'm constitutional. I ask you to remain calm in this courtroom, please allow me to speak to the Minister. If I may, Your Marshal... I consider you to be a very classy person, and I am not ashamed to say this, but I regret that you are not responding to the manifestations of absolute rudeness that we have had the opportunity to experience from this speaker. You call us fanatics, traitors, you call us idiots, idiots. No, we're big patriots. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We look many years ahead. That's the truth. You have no right to use such words to us. You do not even wonder because it was an opportunity to have a good debate, because we are talking about the future of Poland. We're not just here and now, we're looking at the future. As you look at the future, it was some emotional argument, there was no real discussion at all. Doesn't it bother you that there's an attempt to push a mechanism that concerns the rule of law, but isn't based on any treaty law? You like the fact that a mechanism is being introduced in the back door that speaks of the rule of law, and there is no such provision. No one's ever accepted a recipe like this. That's not just our opinion, that's the sentence. the legal services of the European Union. It doesn't bother you. [[Applause]] 25 countries. Why do I say we're patriots? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because regardless of who will rule in Poland in the future, we cannot afford to introduce a mechanism in the back door so that Brussels officials decide how Poland is to be organized. What back door? There's no consent for that. You're asking about Holland because today there were speeches about Prime Minister Mark Rutte. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Mark Rutte at the beginning of the legislative process wanted to submit a veto, he threatened a veto, just like the French threatened a veto. We are talking about veto today, and this is an instrument that is normally provided for in the legislation, ladies and gentlemen, normally provided for. This is something we agreed to when we entered the European Union. We're not Brussels salons, we're not interested in warm jobs, money... [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, ladies and gentlemen, you are, you are the living roomkeepers, that is the truth. It is even your leader Donald Tusk said in 2018 that it is not allowed to connect (Gwar in the hall, bell) in this rule of law mechanism with EU funds. How about this? What do you say, Mr Budka, because you spoke so strongly yesterday At the Prime Minister's address? You were talking about a traitor, about traitors, what you'd say about Mr. Tusk... No, it's Kaczyński yesterday... ...who said exactly the same thing two years ago. You guys were quiet all of a sudden, weren't you? You're asking about Holland, ladies and gentlemen, for five years I've been taking care of children, driving all over Europe. You were the dealer? Ma'am, ministers know this, my counterparts in other countries, what I did for children, not just in Poland. You're just gonna read it, then you're gonna argue with me. You weren't chasing a pedophile. It's thanks to us, among others. throughout Europe the identity of children will be examined, you will read what is going on, I recommend the Brussels II bis regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, the District Court in Warsaw issued a resolution on whose behalf? Couples, Russian-Australia marriages, who with an autistic child left this law-abiding Netherlands and came to an illegal Poland, seeking asylum, refuge here. What did the court do in Warsaw? He refused to surrender these people as part of a European arrest warrant. [[Applause]] And do you know on what grounds? Not optional - mandatory that you violate human rights in this country and that these people are in danger if they return to the Netherlands, and therefore behaved like a decent man - they refused to execute ENA. [[Applause]] One of the messengers, Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz, spoke of Mr. Tulei and showed that because of Mr. Tulei, because of what the Disciplinary Chamber has done, which is not supposedly a court, that this is an outrage, that this is not a rule of law... It's not. Well, you don't even listen to Commissioner Jourová, it is Mrs Jourová who said that the disciplinary chamber is a court in the matter of immunities. Why? Because if it wasn't, the judges would be walking the streets, beating people up and not taking responsibility. It doesn't bother you. Corrigendum. One last thing. The issue concerning Germany, so law-abiding, is a point of reference for you. I would like to say that I understand that the country in which the judges choose politicians is the law, because it is in Germany and not in Poland, and there is no judicial council, i.e. someone who is the guardian of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. That's your answer. But it's not in the constitution... When Mrs Jourová was with Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, the Minister proposed: of course, we can make a system like that in Germany. There was silence, utter silence. Think about it. We're talking about sovereignty, and we're not talking about money, because if there's no sovereignty... You don't understand that word. ...that money will become silver. Remember that. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u108	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Ladies and gentlemen, we still look forward to hearing from the representatives of the applicants. At the moment, a formal request was made by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, in the mode of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras and Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. I'm asking you to calm down, because we still have a lot of points to do. Mr. Krzysztof Paszyk's formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a formal request, request a break and an invitation to the High House of the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to explain to the High House, particularly the right hand side... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom, fellas. ...to explain to the High House, Minister Wójcik and Prime Minister Morawiecki, who misled the High House by saying that some legislation is being introduced through the back door. I want Minister Szymański to say that the regulation on the link between funding and the rule of law was adopted by the European Commission in 2018, the European Parliament - in 2019, the European Council agreed to this mechanism in July 2020, unanimously with Prime Minister Morawiecki, and now this mechanism is to be adopted by a qualified majority (the bell) by the Council of the European Union and voted by Parliament. What's the back door? Thank you very much. And 25 countries want that. Only Hungary, which has dark interests... Thank you very much, Member. ...and the Polish PiS-owska do not want. We have treaties.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Sławomir Nitras in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u111	Yes, because there's a gentleman who's saying he's a constitutional minister who doesn't know what he's doing - maybe you can tell me what you do as a constitutional minister - and start insulting us... How dare you say that? Talking about defending the rule of law. Wait a minute. I'll tell you what the problem is. You're Mr. Ziobra's subordinate. Marshal, please respond. A gentleman? A few days ago, you and the police went to a 14-year-old boy and started him... Mr... ...scared of juvie... Mr... ...because he made an online entry. Mr... You were Vice Minister of Justice when you went to the Poles several times... Mr... ... You were able to barge in at hours. 6, 7 am to the people, you put handcuffs on them, you sent them to court. Those courts later said there was no basis. So what did you do? You and Mr. Ziobra brought up... Mr... ...Judges who acquitted these people. We are talking about the interests of Poland. You're... Mr... ...a ring that broke into the Ministry of Justice... Mr... ...and put it there... Mr... ...injustice. Mr... You destroy people and at the same time people like Kaczyński make them unpunished. Mr... And this is the lawlessness you introduced in Poland. Mr... And that's why the whole world looks at Poland as a country of lawlessness. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You and Mr. Ziobro owe it to him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u112	I am very sorry, sir, but I have had the authority of the Minister and the Minister has legally spoken in this debate. I'm not saying he was wrong, he was lying. That's why I would really ask you not to perform like that. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u113	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Wójcik claims that the so-called. The Disciplinary Board can't rule only on matters related to the photo of immunity. Well, always taking immunity involves disciplinary penalties, and that is not the right of the Disciplinary Chamber to do so. The Court of Justice of the European Union has declared this. The photo of immunity from Judge Tulea is an illegal act, it's putting inappropriate pressure on judges and you're doing it massly. Your marshal, corrigendum, please. This is the Ziobra machine of exerting pressure on judges who are not within the standards of the rule of law. Your Marshal, we have another point. I would like to say one thing very clearly: Really, it is not the standards of the rule of law to put pressure on judges and to destroy the independence of courts. Today we are fighting for Poland's sovereignty. And this sovereignty will be defended by presence [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland in the European Union. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Please calm down the atmosphere in the courtroom. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. Then they will take the floor of the applicant and then the Member will be corrected. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Mr. Macierewicz, did you buy Mr. Janniger at the market? I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'll file it in accordance with Article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for a recess, so that ministers Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk and Wójcik will cool off and not tell the High House any more such nonsense as they have said. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, in Germany politicians choose judges - fact. But listen, these rules weren't created in the Bolshevik way you're doing right now, breaking the constitution and breaking the bill. But because they're Germans, they're slow. If the system of appointing judges had been shaped in Poland recently in accordance with the constitution and laws, no one would have the right to pay attention to anything. How can you not? But you violated the constitution, you violated the laws. And that's called [[♪ The bell ♪]] rule of law throughout the civilized world, ladies and gentlemen. Yes. [[Applause]] That's not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u116	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. You prefer Germany to Poland. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Boris Budka's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's hot debate has actually shown a very clear and clear division in Poland: on the one hand parliamentarians and parliamentarians... Troublemakers who care not about Poland, but about their own interests. ... The Civic Coalition, the Polish People's Party, the Left, i.e. all those who know what true solidarity, cooperation and fundamental principles of the rule of law look like. On the other hand, the madmen who set Poland on fire for their own political interest... The service of the Germans. Don't serve the Germans. ...who are able to risk even losing money that can help Poland develop, only to refuse to accept any control. But, ladies and gentlemen, where is this coming from? To answer the questions of the Members who were here - that is the fear of settlement. After all, it is those people who today have been claiming the rule of law that have been violating this principle for five years. After all, it is those people who in the name of their group not only have law and justice, as you have Polish in the name of the group, but behave, act as if you were given instructions from Moscow. It's like you're getting instructions from a Cyrillic. Mr, no, you are talking about your resolution. You're blowing up the European Union from the inside. You have shown how you can conduct foreign policy (Gwar in the Chamber) when you put only one card on President Trump and an alliance with the United States when you destroyed our relations in the European Union. And today you judge by your own method. Today you are trying to convince that suddenly everyone is against Poland. No. Mr President, you are to talk about your resolution. You're the rapporteur. Poland is loved in the European Union. You know what for? For our history, for our ability to overthrow communism. And the vast majority of Poles are pro-European. It's unfortunate that we're ruled by modern Bolsheviks, people who have no idea what integration is... You are to answer the questions as rapporteur. ...people who risk farmers' money, entrepreneurs' money, self-government money, risk Poland's development and security only to strengthen their position. No speech - to answer questions as rapporteur. A great hero found himself - a minister who should be responsible for justice, and for five years completely dismantled the entire system of justice. And he dares to instruct the Prime Minister of the Polish Government what to do? Only that if you had some sense - I say to the Members of the Law and Justice - you would defend your Prime Minister and not expose him to a man who will later put you in prison. Please answer the questions that have been asked at your address. First he'll do what he promised against the opposition, but he'll come after you. Don't you understand that this game isn't about what the budget is going to be? This is a game about who will be Kaczynski's successor. And for your own purposes, you are able to deprive Poland of EUR 160 billion. You are sick of hating everyone who understands what solidarity and cooperation are. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has taught you nothing. This debate shows that you are able to sacrifice everything just to keep yourself in power with impunity. You're talking about solidarity, you're talking about the rule of law? Yeah, you're scared because then ski instructors couldn't do business. [[Applause]] Then those who brought left masks to Poland would be subject to some control. You're talking about the rule of law when the prosecution of this gentleman who's sitting there dies off on hanging on gallows? When do you walk hand in hand with people who are people with extreme views who set fire to Poland and die? Answer my question. You don't understand what modern patriotism is. You don't understand what this concept means at all. You, you, you. Tell me about yourself. Why? Because today every real patriot wants European cooperation. Today, every real patriot wants Poland safe. Today, every real patriot wants to... That's why he's reporting on Poland. ... I want us to work together on a partnership basis. You lost 27:1 once. Today you will lose 26:1 because the Hungarians will leave you. They're gonna play theirs and they're gonna leave you. But you're not looking at the future. You want it here and now. You just want that power. We want Poland. We're not afraid to stand up bravely. You will dismantle Poland and the Polish security system only to stay in power. You lost most of it. You lost most of it when you set fire to Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today you do everything you can to turn a Pole against a Pole. You worry about most of it. Finish your work, sir. Unfortunately, you're writing a script that's written in cyrillic. And Poland will not forget this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u118	Thank you very much. No, sir. I told you, after the applicants. Mr Grzyb will speak before you. I would ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate on these resolutions was needed, although it ignited completely unnecessary emotions. These emotions are, of course, natural in the parliamentary debate, but we are also aware that they have brought many bad results here. They have actually strengthened this division, which we have been observing for many years in the High House and also in Polish politics. Nevertheless, I don't want to suspect anyone of bad intentions. Presenting this draft resolution, which I presented here on behalf of the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I am convinced that we are acting for good intentions. We act for good intentions, hence our call to the President of the Council of Ministers, who stated on 21 July 2020 that the negotiating success of Poland - also the Prime Minister who represented Poland at this summit - is to achieve a good result in terms of the multiannual budget and also the recovery plan. We accepted all of this with good faith. That is why we do not understand how much has changed in the position of the government and also in the position of Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who wants to veto this budget. He's been cheated. You know what I mean. I think that everything that was said then, 21 July, in the light of the documents that are in the various European institutions, including the European Parliament, has not changed. On the other hand, it seems to me that this internal conflict, which is between the various factions of the United Right, leads to such a position as the Prime Minister. However, I trust that what Minister Szymański said, among others. In the Council... He said: Poland has no problem with the rule of law, Poland has no problem with the conditionality of the budget, Poland has only one question about this legal certainty. Decide this country because all instruments have a prime minister, has a government, all its co-workers, in the spirit of agreement between all those who represent Poland in this House and represent the best intentions, for their part, for Poland and Poles to develop successfully in the Europe that we need. We are not at all on the margins of Europe's political events. We're at the center of it. Let's just respect our position. Let us not make decisions that are unprecedentedly destroying our position. It is not understandable if, in the final negotiations, everything is suddenly trying to change. It wasn't us. It was the European Commission that changed. It seems that good will is needed for this. Also from our side. I understand that you want to strengthen the Prime Minister's political position in this decision today, but I think it would be very different if this strengthening of the Prime Minister's position took place in the longer term before the decision of 21 July. These are important facts we shouldn't ignore. At the moment we serve Polish public opinion through this debate, this is the impression that there is some sale of Polish interests here. No, those decisions were made on July 21st. It's done, and you guys are in on it. Then the Polish Prime Minister agreed to issue bonds, to finance the debt. This is an open question: Isn't that so-called. Hamilton moment? Isn't that an element that you've always resisted, an agreement to some sort of federalization - in quotes, because it's not exactly the same - by issuing debt? And that is what you have done as a government of law and justice, always stressing this element of building a Europe of homelands. We agree, but if such decisions have been taken, we also respect the decision of the Polish Prime Minister and the Polish Government in this matter. That is why we expect this to be finished with such a finale that will serve the welfare of Poland, and will not show us in the best light. And that's all we're appealing to you for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u120	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Kalet. And in a moment, one more Member of the applicant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u121	Thank you very much, Marshal, thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, such a reflection... But that correction was meant to be, sir. But for what? Yes. I don't know if you'll agree with me. I never thought I'd say this from this pulpit and under these circumstances, but it could be said, Grzegorz Schetyna, come back, because what a man represents himself... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What's this? Correct? ...about a Polish-sounding name that speaks of Cyrillic is wrong. Mr President, there was supposed to be a corrigendum. Ladies and gentlemen, there's one thing I'd like to say. Corrigendum. You say that the Law and Justice under the Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki brings shame to Europe. Let's let our imaginations go. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's not a correction. Imagine that there are people in power who work with this distraught crowd who has lightning on their masks. Member, the same standards. A delegation comes to Poland, no matter what country. Negotiation wouldn't go your way. What are you gonna tell them? Fucking...? Excuse me, sir. Or fuck... you? This is your... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u122	Mr President, there was supposed to be a corrigendum. Really, ladies and gentlemen, you can't behave like this. Someone's asking for a corrigendum. I take this case seriously. This is not fair and I will have much less confidence in your Members in the future. Please, the representative of the applicants, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The debate we are concluding has confirmed that the Government of Law and Justice wants to push Poland into the second European league. You want to deprive Poland of PLN 103 billion, which would help Polish companies, families, would provide better health protection and fight against pandemics. Don't lie to me. Poland under your rule was to get off its knees. I remember Mr Macierewicz saying, "A proud nation, we will rise from our knees." Instead, you'll be on your knees chasing the European lead and asking her not to push you out of the second league. This is your fault and only your responsibility. You're asking. The Left will not stand by and look at what you do, how you deprive Poles and Poles of resources for a better future. We have our solutions and we have been working on their introduction in the European Union for a long time. This may surprise you, but you are being pushed out of the European Union, and the Left, the PSL and the Platform are inviting you. You can't put money in your hands because you're not responsible enough to manage it. You spend it on your limousines or your inoperative ventilators. It is surprising that the European Union does not want to cooperate with the PiS government, which deliberately and deliberately violates all the rules and standards of a democratic state. You deprive Poles and Poles of an honest trial and instead of talking, you use a political baton. Why don't you start using your senses instead of a bat? Then in Europe someone will listen to you. Don't lie to me. However, Poles and Poles must not lose out on your cynicism and inadequacies, which is why in the European Union we are asking for a mechanism that will ensure payments from the European Union without your government. [[Applause]] Straight to local government. But of course. Without the Polish government, to destroy the Polish government. Companies, local governments will receive this money because this money belongs to Poland. But it's not up to you to decide. You guys aren't gonna be quiet, somewhere in the office, deciding that this is the kind of town that's gonna get, because there's a mayor or a president from the PiS. Oh, no, no, gentlemen and ladies of Law and Justice. We will support our projects in opposition, which serve Poland. And you're afraid of it. You're afraid of being treated like a person in the European Union non grata. Why? Poland will be fine. Because the Polish state right is for you the Polish law and justice right. Law and justice are for you slogans to lead you to power. They already have. And for us, law and justice are Poland's responsibility, sovereignty, cooperation, consent and common home, which is the European Union. And consent with Berlin. It annoys you because you two are looking where we were looking in 1989 for an agreement. You're upset about what we're saying in this podium because you know your time is running out. The red card shows you the European Union. But you want Poles to pay for it. The Prime Minister from the speaker yesterday talked about sovereignty, but you're the ones taking it from the Poles. The Prime Minister spoke yesterday about solidarity, but it is you who refuse this solidarity to Poles. You're all sad today because you know your leader said what you're ashamed of yesterday. Talk about your leader. You're worried, and not because your polls are falling because someday they're gonna fall so you're not even gonna get into this parliament. The problem is that at the price of the EU budget You want to buy more time. You want the D.A.'s office not to put you in jail and Prime Minister Kaczyński to scare us. The future lies where Europe, our home together. With responsibility and cooperation. In an idea that for decades has shown that since someone is waving a bat or a bat or a baseball bat, nothing in Europe is going to be built. The Left is responsible for calling you to join us in adopting a budget that will serve the Poles and Poles. But even if you go the other way, we will miss you because Poland is the most important one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u124	Thank you very much. And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Simon Szynkowski, aka Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u125	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Dear Members, I just wanted to fill in the answers. Mr Shejna asked me specifically to answer, so I answer. I thought it was very specific, but I'm replying again. The work on the Conditionality Regulation has been stopped because unanimity is needed for the adoption of the entire budget package. There is no regulation adopted on conditionality at the moment, so it will not apply. I'm telling you clearly. I would like this to be clear and to put an end to the discussion in this respect. Mr Rosati asked if the veto would make Poland not receive the money. There is an annual budget commission, so that of course it is not that Poland will not receive money from the EU budget if the multiannual financial framework is not adopted. Please don't sip that kind of propaganda. It was yesterday that the Prime Minister explained very clearly too. But the rule of law will apply. If you want me to explain this further, I will, of course, also do it additionally. Mrs April, I am sorry, that was an outstanding question. In the first round, I forgot to answer it. Such a measure can be adopted by unenforced judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union: whether or not a country is implementing European law, because it is necessary to try to adopt a measure. Poland now has one unfulfilled judgment of the Court of Justice. For example, other countries, Germany - three, Spain - six, Greece, if I remember correctly - 11, Italy - 10. On this basis, assess whether Poland is doing European law well or not. [[Applause]] Mr Wieczorek also asked if we are preparing Poland to leave the European Union. Mr President, we are not preparing Poland to leave the European Union because Poland is not planning to leave the European Union, I am very clear about it, just as France did not plan to leave the European Union, which rejected the Constitutional Treaty for Europe - a more serious thing than the multiannual financial framework, because it was a treaty, that is, the whole functioning of the Union. It's been rejected, I remind you. The Netherlands - in a referendum rejected the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. And these countries are in the European Union. On the way, many other countries that talked about veto - Denmark, the Netherlands in various kinds of negotiations. This is not some mechanism that, I don't know, for 50 years since the creation of the European Union, no one has ever implemented, threatened it. Of course, he is used as a hard negotiating element and a perfectly normal thing. And there's nothing to be overly afraid of. Plus, President Gawkowski was talking about some mechanisms on which the Left was working, that it would be bypassed, that the government would be celebrated, that money would go directly to local governments. Someone's got to do it. Mr President, I know that we have now had pandemic time, we have all been sitting at home a lot, virtual reality was close to us. I don't know, maybe you're playing some computer games or making some fictional political models. [[Applause]] But you certainly don't function in political reality. And not in a legal way. Legally, there is no room for such solutions. Don't embarrass yourself. It really is extraordinary to tell such hungry pieces, probably only for those who have absolutely no idea about European law, because those who already have a little idea, already see that something is not right, that there would be such a democratic construction, according to which Mr Gawkowski decides how EU money will be spent, and the Polish government does not decide how EU money will be spent. The opposition Member shall decide this, and the parliamentary majority shall not decide it. It seems a little weird and virtual to every reasonable man, as I said. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, Mr Budek also... I thought there'd be some questions, because after all, you've tabled a draft resolution that you'll answer. But you're totally interested in something else, you're not interested in your own draft resolution, you're not interested in treaties, legal bases, you're interested in taking out the propaganda baton on this speaker, and this way you're not interested in wrestling with this baton. [[Applause]] You guys were hitting women with a stick last night. It's sad, unfortunately. This is an attitude that the opposition leader certainly shouldn't characterize, but you don't care, you talk on the phone, so there's nothing to discuss with you. What kind of language is that? Your leader isn't here at all. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I will say only this: from your statements, from the opposition's statements there was a belief that this agreement must be adopted quickly, because there will be money, because there will be money for Poland. And if we don't, it won't. I have already explained that there will be a commission, that budget money is not at risk. But let me say one more thing: you are acting like a client at a bank who came for a quick loan, for quickly obtained money (the bell), does not read the contract, does not read the small print, does not see that someone is writing something for him at the last moment... What's the last moment? ...that he wouldn't be able to take the money if he didn't do something else if he didn't meet the ridiculous conditions. Just to take the money, he signs what they put in his signature. Just to get that money. And have a drink. And celebrate. We're being responsible. We want to implement this agreement with the European Union, the Union of all countries, the multiannual financial framework, but on fair, clear and fair principles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u126	Thank you very much. Last corrigendum in this debate, Mr Boris Budka. You're welcome. No... Just don't say the same thing four times. Boris, just don't repeat yourself for the fourth time. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would very much like to have a normal, responsible debate in this Parliament, but you have been blocking this possibility for five years. [[Game in the O.R.]] Today you are presenting a false diagnosis, false arguments and false prescription to the High House. You don't have any arguments. Minister! Poland is not alone in the European Union, you are alone as this government. Substantively, substantively. 27:1, 25:1. You guys are gonna keep losing. Why? Because you cannot understand what Europe is. Europe is based on values that are alien to you: solidarity, the rule of law. You'll never understand because you're building an encore. Just as Marshall's plan was rejected in the Polish People's Republic, so today you want to reject the rescue plan for Europe. Why? Because you want to be unpunished. It is a pity that despite this debate [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you couldn't understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u128	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, requests were made to reject all draft resolutions at first reading and to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution in print No 755. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in a moment. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 04 hours 15 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to establish their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 445 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on government departments and certain other laws, print No 752. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We continue to consider items 47, 48, 49 and 50 of the agenda: I would like to remind you that all draft resolutions were asked to be rejected at first reading and to join the second reading immediately without referring the draft resolution from print No 755 to the committee. Before we vote - Mr Adam Szłapka with a formal proposal. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am filing a formal request for a recess during which your marshal will draw disciplinary and regulatory consequences to Members who have violated the order which your marshal himself has prepared and issued. Yesterday, at the meeting, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński appeared without a mask. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Abstracting from what he said in that disgraceful speech, he violated your Marshal's orders. Don't lie to me. There can't be sacred cows in this room if we're going to be a law-abiding state. That is why I expect your marshals to react and draw consequences in relation to Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u130	Thank you, sir. Firstly, I will not announce a break, and secondly, please, by the way, since you say that all the clubs have broken my second important order, because there is a list of Members who have been asked to attend the plenary room on the door from the right to the left. There should be 50 people, 139 people. Therefore, I would like to inform all of you that if Friday, next week, there is a similar situation as now, we will draw the consequences of the regulation. Now what? Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain... What? What? You know, ladies and gentlemen, I really see you guys don't have serious cases. You're playing this Polish game, you're playing it all for nothing. What's the point of saying such strong words to the president? We proceed to the vote on the proposals to reject the draft resolutions at first reading. We move to vote on the draft resolution from print no. 755. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution in print 755, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 was for, 237 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print no. 749. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution in print No 749 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 244 was for, 200 against, six stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print 754. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution of print No 754, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm and be serious. But here you are. The MP insults us. You're the ones who insult us with these signs. And you're insulting the Sejm. And you Poles. Easy, easy. 451 Members voted. For - 242, 204 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print No 753. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution in print 753, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, but will there be punishments for those who speak without masks? But how's the voting equipment, Marshal? But that's a question for Marshal Kuchciński. 454 Members voted. 244 - for, 205 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I would like to remind you that a request for entry to second reading without referring to the committee has been submitted to Draft Resolution No 755. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! Objection I hear, and we will therefore vote against this objection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution contained in print No 755 without referring to the committee will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 236 - for, 214 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm adopted the proposal and therefore agreed to join the second reading without delay. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution from print no. 755. We've got reports here. I therefore open the discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this point. No, no, no, no, no, I haven't made it yet... But let me make a statement, because it has to be in the protocol. Longer, five minutes, Marshal. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! I hear an objection. Five minutes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, five minutes. I understand there's no objection. Thank you. Thank you very much. Then I'll open the discussion. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u131	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, as you know, welcomes the draft law supporting the Council of Ministers' actions in the area of budget negotiations in the European Union, print No 755. Today, in the face of the ongoing budget negotiations, Poland needs a strong and jointly sounding voice of the Polish Parliament. A voice supporting the government's defence efforts, dictated by the defence against the creation of mechanisms in breach of the EU treaties, which in fact threaten the rule of law in the European Union. This is what Poles and we all would expect from politicians and Members of the parliamentary opposition today. This voice of the Polish opposition unfortunately lacked today. The opposition politicians did not benefit, despite the opportunity they had, from the possibility of acting properly, from the possibility of protecting the Polish reason of the state. You still have the chance to unanimously support the draft drafted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In this connection, I will remind yesterday's voice of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who sounded from this seymous speaker. 2020 is a difficult time and it will be possible to get out of it if we are solidarity and if we are pursuing a policy in the interests of the Polish people. Remember, today the interests of our nation require that we take joint action and do not allow the rear door to introduce mechanisms that are harmful to Poland and harmful to the European Union. You have the chance to support this project to show that the Polish Parliament supports the Polish government in budget negotiations and in protecting sovereignty. Mrs. Marshal! As announced earlier, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I propose an amendment to the draft resolution supporting the Council of Ministers' activities in the field of budget negotiations in the European Union, print No 755. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u132	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a really crazy important debate. This is the last moment to call on you to come to your senses to call on the parliamentary majority to reconsider its opinion, because you do not decide only that Poland will not take part in the work and give up money, from the great plan to rebuild Europe after the COVID, the great plan to rebuild Europe similar to Marshall's plan, you cause your policy, some obsession with strange, that Poland may really not participate in this programme, and the long-term consequence may be that Poland will leave the European Union. It is not true what Mr Wójcik said here, that it is about some children bought at fairs in the European Union. It's something completely different. Mr Macierewicz is interfering with the speech here. Mr President, would you mind? I don't know how much experience you have in buying kids in the markets, but these things just don't happen. These things don't happen. It's about something completely different, it's about Mr. Wójcik and Mr. Ziobro being able to acquit Mr. Kaczyński so that Mr. Kaczyński can do what he wants - and they would say he's innocent - so that Mr. Rydzyk and Mr. Zidzyk can be innocent, but against anyone else who gets in the way, even if it's a 14-year-old boy who writes something on the Internet, Mr. Wójcik, Mr. Ziobro, Mr. Kaczyński can start proceedings so that they can scare this boy into juvie just because he's gonna publish something they don't like online. The point is for Mr. Wójcik and Mr. Ziobro and Mr. Kaczyński to be able to determine who to arrest and who to arrest at the green table in Nowogrodzka, so that there can be judges who won't agree to arrest, to hold them accountable so that immunity can be removed, to deprive them of their right to rule. The point is that a few types from a dark star can rule Poland and punish anyone... Mr President, I draw your attention. ...who stands in their way. And here, in the Seym, there are Polish patriots, who, like before the Communists, had the courage to defend Poland, so today they defend Poland from you, because nothing is different from the communist cataclysms, from Cyrankiewicz. Mr President, weigh your words. It's a shame you didn't expect Macierewicz or Wójcik to speak. Okay, okay. The point is to put a dam in this madness. Because the state in which you make this most important decision in this parliament, this is the state we saw here yesterday. You saw Mr. Kaczyński's condition, Mr. Morawiecki was performing yesterday. What was their state of consciousness? Is it possible in such a state, in such madness, to make the most important decisions about the future of the nation? No, you can't. This is the last time you can stop. This resolution of yours is ridiculous. Your resolution is ridiculous. And even if you accept her here today, she will only bear witness to you. Your behavior, if it wasn't scary, it would be funny too. The truth is that Poles who were kept outside Europe for 50 years... the communists kept us outside Europe for 50 years, the Poles on the wheelbarrows drove them away. And exactly the same: if you raise your hand to the presence of Poland in the European Union, we will take you out on wheelbarrows. And you're gonna end up like this. That's how history will judge you like Cyrankiewicz. Thank you. [[Applause]] Oh, dear, Fame, but you're ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u134	Consider the state of self-consciousness, sir. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. You're welcome. Everyone saw Kaczyński yesterday. Then I'll stop using the word "merger" with your name on it. Your marshal can do whatever he wants with my name. It doesn't matter. Sure, of course it doesn't matter. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the ridiculousness of this resolution, we still need to talk about the lies made by Prime Minister Morawiecki from this speaker, and there were quite a lot of lies. Firstly, I would like to point out that in July, Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to the introduction of the rule of law mechanism. Only under the blackmail of Minister Ziobra changed his mind. That's the truth. Prime Minister Morawiecki has already agreed to what he vetoes today. Lie number two. Prime Minister Morawiecki says that some oligarchs make decisions in the European Union. What oligarchs? Decisions in the European Union are taken by 27 countries - members of the European Union, heads of government. We belong to this community and we are one of two countries. Thus, 25 countries disagree and 25 heads of government disagree with Poland. That's the problem. The decisions are not made by oligarchs, but by representatives of national societies. That's a third lie. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands reported effective veto and thus received discounts. There were no discounts, and the veto was part of the negotiations. After the agreement there was no veto so far. The Prime Minister agreed, and then he talks about veto. A fourth lie - a budget commission. What does it mean? It means that the rule of law is in force and the countries that break [[♪ The bell ♪]] the rule of law, they will not receive money from 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u136	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another installment of our discussion. I will not, of course, turn towards the opposition because we agree. I'll turn to the ruling party and look at the minister as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your heart because, unfortunately, you left your senses somewhere along the way and abandoned your beliefs, your doctorates, Minister, and your beliefs regarding the interpretation of European law. I'm going to say one very important thing, very, very important. Understand: your resistance to the rule of law in Poland does not find any understanding anywhere in Europe. Your resistance to the rule of law will be a real injury to Polish households, entrepreneurs, farmers, doctors, nurses. But what's the most important thing? What is the rule of law? The rule of law is laid down in a number of European Union documents, the Treaties, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. This is a state of law, that is access to an independent, independent court, that is respect for the rights of minorities, that is free media, that is, respect for the rights of women, which of course you do not recognize, because Prime Minister Kaczyński thought that women in Poland are to give birth irreversibly ill, damaged fetuses or dead fetuses. But it's not the most important thing. Your strategy makes no sense, because at the end of this strategy is a failure, a failure, Minister, that you were not telling the truth in answer to my question. Well, that's the way it is. The Council will adopt, together with Parliament, a regulation that makes spending the European Union's funds dependent on the rule of law, on what we live on a daily basis. After all, each of us, every citizen wants to live in a country where he has the right to court, has the right to care, has the right to security. Therefore, here and now I want to say one very important thing: do not harm Poland, do not harm Poles and Poles. There is nothing more to your action than the fear of Zbigniew Ziebra, who is today the Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Justice and Head of the United Right. You're afraid to admit you don't have the majority without him. I want to say here today: we will not allow you to do this damage to Poland and the European Union. What is more, I appeal to you: think about this resolution you want to adopt, reject it. Because if you accept it, the Poles will not forget it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u138	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, all day, let's say, we're debating, if you can call it a debate, about civilization issues. This conversation is about what direction we're going to go, whether east or west. I choose the west, the left chooses the west. It chooses unity, solidarity, conversation with partners, sometimes difficult conversation, but a discussion based on arguments. We are discussing the issue of interstate cooperation as part of the best project that has ever happened in the history of Europe, the European Union. What Mr Szejna has said must be supplemented when it comes to understanding the rule of law. The rule of law is the rights of minorities, women's rights, free courts, free media, right to assembly, freedom of expression, freedom of speech. All of this has been settled not only on the basis of the Treaty, but also e.g. in the European Convention on Human Rights, since the European Convention on Human Rights has often been invoked by the European Court of Justice. The standards set by the European Court of Justice or the Court of Justice of the European Union are those which should apply in each Member State of the European Union. All these principles: minority rights, women's rights, human rights, civil liberties you understand backwards. We say yes, you say no. The European Union says: women's rights, you say: ban on women's rights. What ban? Don't lie to me. This is exactly a communication block and a wall that you can't intellectually break. One more thing - a budget commission. Your experts, your MEPs from the European Parliament, say: "Whatever, we will not accept the budget, we will veto it, there will be a commission. So let the Poles and Poles hear: the commission is only the completion of contracts that are in force now, no new projects, no new vision, no new plans to rebuild Poland. This is only the basic financing of the European institutions, the Commission, Parliament, etc., etc. The commission becomes some kind of fetish, you try to sober the eyes of Poles and Poles. Only the Left and all those for whom [[♪ The bell ♪]] European values are important, they expose your hypocrisy. Thank you very much. Stop the stupid resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u140	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u141	Thank you, Marshal. And the Union of European Democrats, because it is important in the context of this speech. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Thanks to the recent vote and the majority of PiS-owska we are already debating only and only one resolution, which contains a commitment of the Polish government to declare a veto and block the financial package, from which the two most important funds, i.e. the multiannual financial framework and the reconstruction fund, carry so much euro for Poland, so much for Polish funds and so much money to rebuild our economy after the effects of the pandemic. This resolution that we have left to discuss is fatal and very harmful. But there is one sentence in this resolution that deserves attention. This opinion states that the Polish Sejm calls on the governments of the European Union to return to the agreed conclusions of the European Council of July this year, when the Heads of State, including Mateusz Morawiecki, have written down the following commitment related to EU finances for the next seven years, here I quote: The Union's financial interests are protected in accordance with the general principles contained in the Treaties, in particular in accordance with the values enshrined in the article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. What does this treaty say? This treaty says, and it is worth recalling that the Union is based on respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights, including those belonging to minorities, and that these values are common to Member States in a society based on pluralism, non-discrimination and tolerance. Many of these values in Poland under your rule are simply not respected. And that's the biggest problem you're facing today. Without respecting these values, you want to take money from the European Union, and this money will not be. But what's worse, they won't just be for the government of law and justice. They won't be for Poles. It is true, of course, to say that there will be a budget commission, except that one important aspect is omitted: a budget commission, like any one-year solution, cannot be used to finance multi-annual investments. And these are also the ones that you promised in election campaigns, including parliamentary or local government campaigns. One of my club colleagues recently asked the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways when the promised bypasses in the Łódź voivodship would finally be created. Almost all will be created in 2029 and 2030. They won't rise because you won't get the money. You're cheating yourself, cheating Poles, cheating the European Union. Who's telling you veto? Probably the same as in 2006, 2007, when President Lech Kaczyński negotiated the Treaty of Lisbon on your behalf or on behalf of Poland. At that time we heard: Veto or death. The same counselors came out of the closet today. They are in the European Parliament, they are in the Ministry of State Assets. No, this Metternich from the III, IV of the Republic of Poland in 2007 and 2006 tried to make a career in the Civic Platform, but there he quickly got acquainted with his qualifications and skills and found a comfortable job with you in the party. Where are you now? We return to the text of the resolution: With this in mind, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland - you propose - welcomes the fact that Polish representatives block further work on the package of budgetary solutions. This sentence is either a proof of betrayal of the interests of Poles, the Polish state and the Polish nation, or an expression of political stupidity. Moreover, this political foolishness is confirmed by the fact that only two prime ministers, two countries from the agreement that has been built for years, such as the Visegrad Group, or the recently promoted so-called. The Tri-Moor Agreement. So the only thing that comes from this place right now is your appeal... So often you refer to Lech Kaczyński's legacy, so do what he did at the end of those negotiations. At the last moment, he stopped listening to these uneducated, these pests and stopped Poland's course on the wall. Yes, and you can go to the history of the Republic of Poland with a good solution, withdrawal from the veto, adoption of the financial framework [[♪ The bell ♪]] and respect for the rule of law in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here we hear that the Union is telling us about the rule of law. The rule of law we have sometimes had in Poland, we have left-wing rule from the Union, i.e. compliance with rules based on left-wing values. On the other hand, the PiS does not want to have either the rule of law or the left-wing rule, but simply do what it wants, without looking at any regulations, and that is the difference. As for the veto, I wanted to point out that that's why it's the right veto to use them sometimes, so there's no wonder. And he's right, venerable Kosiniak-Kamish, saying that the threat of veto is more important than the use of veto. Only, of course, the left-wing opposition, convincing everyone that Prime Minister Morawiecki will apply this veto, strengthens his position - because they will fear in this Union that he will apply it. But I'll tell you the state secret: he won't do it, certainly. Young people don't know that... We do not believe that the veto will be applied. I can bet you quite a lot of money. Why? Because at a round table, actually in Magdalena, there was a deal that once ruled us, once you, once you, once you, and regardless of that we enter the Union and build Eurosocialism. Why is PiS doing this? Just to pretend that he's resisting the Union, to get an electorate. And if it comes down to it, it won't veto anything. I would like to remind you that this decision has already been made several times in July. Right now, the veto isn't gonna change anything. It's just, I repeat, so that the electorate of PiS thinks there's this good cop, and there's this bad cop on the left, and he wants to sell us here. So once again, we don't believe it's gonna happen. On the other hand, as the last thing I'm going to say is that everyone here believes in this big money from the Union. There's a myth on the left that money gives us happiness and power. I ask myself: If today -- if this is the voice of these benches -- we are connected in four major crises, then why isn't this crisis in China, which hasn't received a cent from the Union, but in a country that has received huge money from the Union? And now I'm talking to a page that's called the right side, and the right side isn't. You believe that the Union wants us to do wrong, that the Germans want us to do wrong. Now think about why the Germans are giving us a lot of money, because it's the Germans who are giving us that money. To take a dime out of every euro. Think about it: If the Germans are our enemy, why do they give us money? Thank you for your attention. A friend of mine in recognition. You're talking about what you're taking, right? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Unable to get.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u145	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A regulation on the link between EU funds and the rule of law was voted on Monday. The Polish Parliament should be the only parliament that can possibly talk about whether something in Poland is law-abiding or not. The European Parliament, the European Commission or any other international organisations are not from telling us, Poles, what is law-abiding and what is not law-abiding. That's our motto, that's our sovereignty, and we should take care of it. Unfortunately - and this must be said clearly and loudly - Prime Minister Morawiecki, telling us in July that the rule of law, which is in the conclusions after the EU summit, will not affect what is happening in Poland, he did not say the full truth, he was deceived, because it is possible to add such things to the EU treaties and then execute them. So now Mr. Morawiecki will have to swallow this frog and somehow get out of this situation. The fact that veto can be applied, in this situation in practice may not improve anything. It is important to remember what mistakes have already been made by the states, and never again in the future. But what else are we supposed to do? But the continuation... You're just continuing what the Civic Platform was doing. Let's make a deal: you're the same Eurocrats. No, they want to continue. We don't do it, the other way around. That's how it is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u146	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, During his speech yesterday, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said: this is the moment to decide whether our fate is to be in our hands. And that's a very short, essential, good take on the weight of the moment we're in. The opposition had the chance to understand this importance and take up the challenge, had the chance to strengthen the negotiating mandate of the Polish prime minister, the Polish government to fight, to realize Polish interests. I asked the questions here, presenting the draft resolution. It is necessary to answer this fundamental question, as well as the resulting further question: Does the Polish Prime Minister require support from the opposition in the negotiations, or do the officials of the European Commission or representatives of other Member States require support from the Polish government? When I asked you this, you screamed: no, Prime Minister Morawiecki does not deserve our support. That's the answer. So if not Prime Minister Morawiecki, who deserves the support? Or are you the vice-president of the European Parliament Katarina Barley with her thesis on starving some Member States? Are you closer to the thesis that a financial lever should be established that will harm Poland and Poles? Is that what you support? Because that's the alternative. You're saying that you want to bypass the government so that it doesn't have a share in spending money, but that it goes directly to local governments. To the right self-governments. I ignore that this is political fiction, that it has no basis for treaty, there is no chance of introducing this extremely wicked and harmful plan of yours. The fact that there's even such an idea shows what your intentions are. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said yesterday that the European Union is not only money but also values. And you guys talk about it sometimes, too. These values are listed, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Solidarity is also mentioned in the broad catalogue of these values. Today I paid particular attention to this value, because during the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Solidarity Day during the pandemic we show and so far have shown the Polish gene of solidarity in many areas, helping others. People help each other, but also Poles around the world organize relief actions in 160 places. I know that because I oversee Polish politics. There are many actions aimed at other countries, 14 countries that we have helped bilaterally. We are the third donor of NATO aid mechanism after the United Kingdom and the United States. As part of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, we have provided assistance in Ukraine, Belarus. We know what solidarity is, because we have the Polish gene of solidarity, but we also expect solidarity from the European Union, from other partners, from other countries and from respect for diversity, while maintaining the principle of unanimity, which should apply in key areas, because solidarity is precisely the result of unanimity. There is therefore a need for consensus on key issues among all the Member States of the European Union. This is what we refer to, this is a very important principle, and we want the Polish gene of solidarity to become also the European gene of solidarity. And finally, one last thing. One of those rules referred to in Article. 2 is also the rule of law. There was a lot here about this rule of law. Maybe I'll surprise you with what I say, because you think the rule of law is so perfect. The propaganda baton, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said yesterday, to beat up the insubordinates. However, the rule of law is very important, and we attach great importance to it. The rule of law is enshrined in Article. 7 Polish Constitution. It's the work of public authorities on the basis and within the limits of the law. Please indicate to me the legal basis on which the so-called. Conditionality mechanism in the European Treaties. Please indicate this legal basis where it is. Nobody said anything about her today. Because she doesn't exist. There is no such legal basis for this mechanism. Please indicate to me this legal basis in the Polish Constitution. Art. The 90th Polish Constitution is very clear: it is possible to transfer certain powers of the country to an international organisation, but only on the basis of an international agreement, i.e. on the basis of a treaty, not on the basis of a regulation. This is impossible, this is a solution that is incompatible with the Polish [[♪ The bell ♪]] A constitution. The rule of law is respect for the law, once again I stress, action on the basis and within the limits of the law. All these elements are indicated by this proposal for a resolution. She will strengthen the negotiating mandate of the Polish Prime Minister. This power may have been even greater, but you haven't taken this opportunity. There's still regret. I ask the High Sejm to adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u148	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the second reading, a motion for rejection and an amendment to Draft Resolution No 755, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a 15-minute recess. How many minutes? 15 minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 06 hours 16 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 47 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution supporting the Council of Ministers' activities in the area of budget negotiations in the European Union. In the second reading of the draft resolution, an amendment and a motion for rejection were tabled in full. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote on the draft after the text of the proposal has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The summary was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen for print No 755. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft resolution tabled in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft resolution in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 204 - for, 235 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 1 in Article. 1 paragraph 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 259 - for, 127 - against, stopped 57. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 755, along with the amendment adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 236 - for, 209 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution supporting the Council of Ministers' activities in the area of budgetary negotiations in the European Union. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (prints Nos 738 and 752). I ask Mr Konrad Frysztak to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Whoever doesn't want to listen, please step out into the cockroaches so that the Member can speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We started investigating this law yesterday at the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. After the motion for rejection, as I referred to yesterday, the bill returned to the plenary room, but the High House decided that we would return to its development. So it happened, the work began at hours. 22 and ended badly after hours. Three in the morning. This merely indicates, ladies and gentlemen, that unfortunately, this law is not well prepared and certainly there was no cooperation with the government in the process. We have repeatedly called for this to be taken away by this law, to improve it to come back with a law that will be acceptable. Unfortunately, Mr Dworczyk refused to accept such a request. Ladies and gentlemen! This law primarily increases the remuneration of Undersecretaries of State who are to be incorporated into the Civil Service Corps. Today's salary for Undersecretaries of State is 10,000. zł. Undersecretaries who will be in the CID will earn over 21,000. zł. That's an increase of over 10,000. zł. As far as the Legislative Council is concerned, this is also what the committee asked, and we have been discussing this for a long time. The Legislative Board - they will also be raised to six times the basic amount, or 12,000. PLN per month. In addition, the members of the Legislative Board will be able to charge twice the base amount for opinions and analyses, i.e. an additional 4 000. zł. And also an important change, which is included in this law, and which you should know about, is that a record of a maximum number of members of the Legislative Board has been removed, which has so far reached 20 people. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that Mr Szopiński, the future head of the Sports Committee, was very careful about this matter, and he asked very carefully about the issues concerning the National Sports Centre. In principle, the copying of all the responsibilities that the Ministry of Sport performs today, and which, in fact, must be made clear, is terminated, and all the competences will be taken over by the external institution, the National Sport Centre. We also drew the attention of the High Commission to the fact that there is still a Euro 2012 law in the legal system and I do not know if you know, but the National Stadium is managed by Euro 2012. After all, this could be changed, someone else could manage, for example, a new institution, which will be the National Sports Centre. But it is worth noting that the government majority in the committee did not obtain the majority and the amendment of the opposition National Sports Centre was deleted from this law. It's also, like I said, worth emphasis. Ladies and gentlemen! After hours. 3 a.m. at the committee meeting was pat - 18:18. The adoption of the report has not been decided, the rejection of this report has not been accepted, and a gap has therefore been announced until this morning. There were intense attempts at waking up at night, which did not result. This morning, the committee adopted the report I presented to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u150	Correct what? Speech. Well, maybe we should put it off after the speeches. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Excuse me, I'm in correction mode. My name came up. Now, in time...? Yes. Here you go, one minute. Just a moment, sir, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not aspiring anywhere, and I don't want anywhere from this position I'm in as part of the Sejm, to be promoted. On the other hand, I am interested in the very degree of creation of law in Poland. And if we have a law that talks about divisions, and within the framework of this law at hours. 3 in the morning we change the whole system connected with the financing of Polish sport, on the other hand with the supervision of Polish sports unions, with the third element, with the control system, it must arouse my concern. And if I ask the question with which Polish sports unions it was consulted and I get the answer that with none, I ask who the law is created for in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u152	Thank you very much. And now Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u153	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I would not like to enter into a dispute with the rapporteur and the Member of the Left. Although the matter was also somewhat different, the committee's meeting undoubtedly led to a kind of wedge, which triggered our debate today, because the committee was not in agreement with whether or not the proposed bill was adopted. We are therefore meeting today at the plenary debate to return to this subject once again. In fact, in the course of the introduction, there were very large discrepancies in the positions of the various parliamentary clubs, Members, and they resulted in the submission of amendments or their negation, the negation of individual articles in the draft law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice maintains its declaration that this government project is a good and needed project. But as is the case at the meetings of individual committees, there are also doubts that need to be resolved, which need to be clarified, because that is why the meetings of the committee are here to debate, discuss and discuss the drafts of individual laws. And undoubtedly, even though it was a long meeting, it could not be rejected here as if it were not substantive. Of course, we could agree with each other or disagree with each other. But since some articles have been deleted, so taking advantage of the opportunity that this law can be supplemented, improved, made even more effective in the next reading... Because that's what this is all about, so the government can have... Money for your own. ... such mechanisms, which could be effective, good, appropriate mechanisms, also - as was also emphasized - in the situation in which our homeland is now in the situation related to the COVID-19 epidemic. There are also specific records of this pandemic situation. Which ones? I would ask you not to extend, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to amend the proposed law to this law. I hope that they will soon be discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and, most importantly, will be adopted by the committee and by the High House, as I call for from this point on. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before a second ago, we saw the Government's majority drawing up a specific road map, a specific goal aimed at polexit, during which entrepreneurs, Polish and Poles, would be deprived of huge money connected with the negotiation of the EU budget. And this bill also applies, ladies and gentlemen, to money, except not to you, dear Poles, dear fellow countrymen, but to money for yours. The aim of this law, according to Minister Dworczyk, is, of course, to prepare a framework to ensure the proper functioning of the government, to introduce new departments, but he did not forget to mention that here, however, the key issue is to raise the apanage, is to politicise the members of the corps... Civil servants. ...civilian services, which will result in a very strong limitation of substance. Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Frysztak said as rapporteur for the committee is absolutely crucial, because raising the remuneration for Undersecretaries of State with an enormous amount of more than 10,000. PLN per month and to enable, ladies and gentlemen, additional earning of money, as well as the necessity or lack of need to disclose their sources of income by not revealing the so-called. Property statements result in a very large limitation and politicisation of members of the civil service corps. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have apparent changes which, in a clear way, as I said, seemingly e.g. They eliminate the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, replacing them with your favorite national creation, another National Sports Centre. Of course nothing changes, money stays the same, hierarchy, functioning, camera is the same. Ladies and gentlemen, because you put this law in place, classically getting used to it, two days before, putting us against the wall, with a change concerning dozens of laws, with 112 articles that refer to dozens of laws, with many changes, we had to concentrate on what you sewn, especially sewn deep into this law - it's money, money for your own. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we must make this clear. In a time of crisis, in a time of pandemic, in a time of uncertainty of everyday life for Poles and Poles, ladies and gentlemen, once again you are doing what is most precious to you - you are putting the money of entrepreneurs, doctors, teachers into your pockets. What you're trying to say is that from now on, these people, being your party equipment installed in the ministries, will immediately, from day to day, become partyless, substantive members of the civilian corps. This is a travesty. Just a question: What? Is that what you propose in this bill, or just a civilian corps, with many decent apolitical, substantive officials? It will be a bridge between politics and the civil service corps. Ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no agreement between us on this type of reformation, on this kind of preparation of laws, when you have a few dozen hours, you are proceding at night, there are many questions, many ambiguities, confusion with confusion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly oppose such a formula of proceding and pushing, with the sewing of certain things again related to your apanage in the provisions of the law, which was intended to harmonise and improve the functioning of the state administration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because in times of epidemic, instead of helping industries that you close, such as gastronomy, tour pilots, carriers, you raise wages for your own, you will run out of desks at KPRM, Minister. I can see why there are extra limos that the media are talking about. Because of this, you raise your pay by 10,000 in an epidemic age. zł, and others you are really taking away the opportunity to earn, the Civic Coalition Club is proposing to reject this project in its entirety at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u158	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński... No, I'm sorry, Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to thank you all very much for these more than 5 hours of work, but we would not have to meet three times, Minister, because I remind you that we have met three times on this bill. The first time the committee rejected the bill in its entirety and then twice to proceed over it. If we had expertise, analysis and opinions... And here, Mr. Marshal, it is also your call that, in a situation where we are actually considering projects, the Office of Sejm Analysis prepares an opinion for us, because this project was simply not an opinion, it was a quick process. I would just like to draw attention to two things, Minister, because my colleague Mr Szopiński will talk about the rest. See that this bill differentiates the Undersecretaries of State in different offices. Other salaries will be paid by the Undersecretaries of State in the Ministry and the Prime Minister's chambers, while other salaries will be halved, by the President's office and by half the Undersecretaries of State in the Sejm. So we have two groups of undersecretaries: those who are better placed in ministries and those who are less in the office of the President and in the law firm of the Sejm. The second thing I'd like to draw attention to. Maybe the government would lean on this and consider the amendment that Mr Szopiński tabled yesterday. I'm talking about the hard work of people who work in the health department today. We have tabled an amendment so that they will also be in this civilian service, which you did not agree to. However, you may decide, after reflection, that these two professions - this is not a large group - should also be included in civil service positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u160	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sport is a competition by nature, but this competition never divided Poles. We were always fans where they were and stood on the podium of Polish athletes, we always proudly watched our athletes when they played Mazurka Dąbrowski. There was also a situation that Poles never shared the process over laws that apply to the functioning of Polish sport. But until then. Because you decided to change the legal system in Poland regarding the functioning of sport at hours. At 3 a.m. and not at the session of the Parliamentary Committee on Sports, but under a law called: on departments in public administration. This law contains as many as 60 different types of changes, fundamental changes in many laws: in the Civil Service Act, in the Security of Events Act, in the Foreign Service Act. This law is a law that conceals a change in the functioning of Polish sport. Dear Marshal, In the explanatory memorandum of this law we read: The aim of the changes covering the provisions concerning the heading: Physical culture is to introduce a more efficient and modern model of management of tasks in the field of sport, physical education and rehabilitation through the organizational and functional separation of tasks consisting in shaping state policy in the important field of social life, which is sport. You have shown that this is indeed an important part of the activity in Poland. Namely to the question with which sports unions this law was consulted, I will answer that with none. When we asked the Minister what outstanding Polish sports management theorists were consulted on these changes, we received the answer that none of them were. I would like to ask why Law and Justice once again shifts the issue of Polish sports and Polish athletes to an angle, why it cannot sit at a common table with sports unions and agree what is best for Polish sport. Because you can do it. When you're successful, you'll be together in photos with athletes and sports unions. You'll be successful then. But when it is necessary to describe what it should look like in Poland, unfortunately you are not there. I would like to say to the employees of the Ministry of Sport from this place: Ladies and gentlemen, read this law carefully, because in this act it is quite unclear whether you will work at (the bell) the National Sport Centre, or whether you will not work at this National Sport Centre. Thank you very much. I've only dealt with one segment, a segment about... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u162	Ms Urszula Nowogórska, club of the Polish People's Party. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u163	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Good morning. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Once again from this place, I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz15 with regard to Parliamentary Printing No. 738 on the government draft law on government departments and some other laws. Here, before my speech, it sounded quite loud and loud, that the law actually raises a lot of doubts and emotions, and it not only sounded at three meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, but also at meetings of the Sejm, also just a moment ago. Many of these ambiguities and misconceptions are due to a lack of clarification of the records. I would like to say that many questions have been raised at the committee meeting, many opinions have been raised, different positions have been put forward. It is fair to say that many of these doubts have been clarified and many substantive discussions have been held at the committee's meeting. However, it must also be said that the act is actually carried out in express mode, in quick, very fast procedure and without opinion, without expert opinions and consultation. It is understandable - and I also said in my previous speech - that since the government has been reconstructed and the number of ministries has been reduced from 20 to 14, it was necessary to make certain changes, certain transfers which result from the transfer or from the change of competence, to existing ministries or to those which have been isolated. In fact, many new departments have been identified: geology, forestry, hunting. In general, the law also covers a number of other laws and deals with matters assigned to the departments: construction, spatial planning and development and housing, economy, water management, mineral management, climate, physical culture, tourism and the environment. It also covers areas and topics related to the establishment of the heading: the administrative centre of the government. The most emotional, however, was the fact, which also from this place has been repeatedly touched, concerning the transfer of Undersecretaries of State to the civilian service corps. This, in turn, involves the release of their wages, which will significantly exceed those which are currently established. Of course, undersecretaries will have to give up political affiliation because of formal requirements. That's what the Minister said from here. But that's not the main problem. The problem is a significant increase in wages. At a time of Cortipinus, in a time of many problems associated with the fight against COVID, with pandemics, in a time of many problems in the health system, in our country's economic system, it seems that this is an inappropriate and certainly not at this time. Therefore, using very, very cultural words, I would like to ask very cordially to approach this issue in a rational, balanced way to draw some conclusions. I hope it comes to that. On the other hand, there are also questions as to whether the decision-making processes related to the transformation or the creation of new ministries and new departments of administration will actually be conducted quickly and efficiently, whether there will be some chaos in terms of issuing administrative decisions or before determining who these decisions are going to, to whom specific questions in specific areas will be addressed. Indeed, the question is whether the costs of government administration will be reduced. I think that's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u164	Thank you very much. Now you have a voice for Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With this bill comes to mind saying that that's what divisions and divisions are for, and chapters so that the messengers don't know where the money went. This is what it looks like today when it comes to staff castles in government administration, which rely solely on the fact that several people have moved to other offices, to other ministries and there has been a commotion. When I say this, it must be said with such a sadness of a state character, that 15 years after the PiS went to power, then with the slogan of the IV Republic of Poland, that is a thorough, fundamental reconstruction of state structures at every level of functioning of offices, we have a great continuation. This is the most meaningful description in spite of what the left side of the room often likes to shout out what you in the PiS often like to emphasize that you are building a whole new country. Well, the State of Law and Justice, that is Jarosław Kaczyński's state is in a fundamental way a continuation of all bad raids, pathology, especially in this sense bureaucratic, administrative, Third Republic government Platform, previously SLD and predecessors. This is a great continuation of disability, a great continuation of waste, a great continuation of bureaucratic absurdities and a great continuation of what citizens most often experience in their daily lives: a state strong against the weak, strong against the grey citizen and a state weak against the various sats, agreements, big corporations, a country that for 5 years cannot guarantee elementary freedom of expression and freedom of expression on online platforms, because it is weak against the strong, is weak against the giants of the Internet, a country that is chasing a shopkeeper, a trader, chasing a grey man for any nonsense or imposing several thousand mandates for having appeared in a park without a mask, as this year, but countries that can't really deal with the mafia that make the garbage burning all over the country. Unfortunately, this picture is complete by the lack of a strong coordination centre. I will remind you that after the first PiS, in 2006, the Government Centre for Strategic Studies was liquidated, which was also a continuation of the SLD practice, and from that moment on we are actually dealing with subsequent governments and Platforms, and just again PiS with one big ad hoc action, fire suppression, fake actions, PR actions, as far as the whole state policy is concerned. During this term, I am sorry, already in the previous term, in 2018 the Centre for Strategic Analysis was established at the office of the Prime Minister. The problem is that the head of the Strategic Analysis Centre is Professor Norbert Maliszewski today. Who is he? He's a political marketing specialist. He is not a man who would be involved in creating long-term concepts, plans for Poland, a man who would actually forge our strategic actions for the future, for decades. Nothing special has changed in the administration for five years. The state has lavished its layouts with the Republic exactly like the predecessors, like the Platform and the SLD. Within 5 years, no decisive, concrete action has been taken on energy. It's a denial of what you promised. We also have an inconsistent, chaotic foreign policy. Compared to us, orbana's four times smaller Hungary has become powerful. Poland is causing chaos with its actions. This is unfortunately a picture of this law and this administration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u166	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u167	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to talk about a slightly different aspect of this law, which was not widely discussed here. Animals aren't things, and forests aren't potato fields. Poland's nature is a treasure, not a resource for violent exploitation. Why do you want to rob him with this bill? Don't you have anywhere else to get public money to waste it? Did you run out of limos? This law concerns the environment. Moves forestry and hunting to the new division. It gives them to the Minister of Agriculture, which probably means an era of mass clippings of Polish forests and shooting wild animals on an unprecedented scale. This is a bad and harmful idea. It will ultimately have tragic consequences for man as well. The Ministry of Agriculture is set to produce. This is the last thing our nature needs in the face of the climate crisis. State forests and hunting have a lot behind their ears. I'm sure they need reform, but they don't cut into the trunk. Remember that song: it used to be May, the grove was buzzing? If you accept the provisions of this law, the only thing that's going to be heard in the woods is the growling of the Harwesters. Sarna, fox or pheasant will be able to watch on your smartphone. Do we really want Poland to become a big Amazon? The emphasis placed on the cashing of Polish forests and the life of wild animals is a mistake that will cost us a lot as a society. Nature conservation shows responsibility for future generations and patriotism. It's our constitutional duty. Polish forests belong to all citizens. Their cut can't be the way to patch holes in the budget. By means of a law written on the knee, without any public consultation, you decide who will take care of, attention, over 1/3 of the territory of Poland. It was the PiS by lex Szyszko who robbed our landscape of 2 million beautiful old trees, explaining that the sick arm or leg is treated with an axe. It was PiS barbarically invaded by the Bialowieza Forest, and speaking of pests, unfortunately, he did not think of himself. Do we really want our forests to be ruled by a ministry whose former boss treated animals as objects and the disease of wild boars as a result of mass shooting? Thank heaven he didn't become Minister of Health during the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of myself and Poland 2050 I submitted a request from the minority to delete this entry in order to protect Polish forests. Today I ask you, the High House, to save them from plowing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u168	Members have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute, of course. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. Box, Mr. Marshal, there's no frame.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to appeal - first, in general - that in the Polish Parliament we would actually observe the Constitution and not just maintain certain facade relations. Let's keep it authentic. The legislator foresaw three readings to conduct an in-depth discussion on each draft law and to examine it in depth, so as to talk to social actors and local authorities, so as to consult it very thoroughly, not so that the draft law is pushed by knee through a parliamentary discussion, night discussions at committee meetings and today's rapid reading. I need to mention the details. Ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of Undersecretaries of State in the civil service is a de facto politicisation of this service again. I am already overlooking the issue of increasing their income, which will increase from 10,000. up to 21 thousand, and with the removal of their duty [[♪ The bell ♪]] the submission of claims of property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u170	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u171	It's me. I'm sorry. Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition. Dear Marshal, Minister! We are talking about government departments, but before we design further changes, it is also worth paying attention to how government departments are currently functioning, especially the department: internal affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we were dealing with a spontaneous assembly. Police officers have used direct coercion measures against its participants. These actions were special because the officers were not uniformed, they were not marked, and worst of all, they were using physical force, they were using sticks against peaceful protesters. Mr President, this is not the point of the programme. Therefore, I have a question for the Prime Minister's representative. In this situation, shouldn't you work on legal changes... [[The bell, the Vice Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is a unique impudence and cynicism of the power of the PiS. Today, Minister, 637 deaths, and you cynically do not publish a bill that would help doctors, staff, as far as increases are concerned. There's no money for that. You shut down the economy, you take people out of work, the schools are locked down. What are you doing? This bill? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill should be called a raise for its own. Through this bill, the PiS wants to provide raises, attention, about 10,000. zł for their Undersecretaries of State. Minister! Honestly and in human terms: Does this increase in a pandemic age, when people lose their jobs, simply deserve you? Isn't it just embarrassing in front of people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u173	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Anita Sowińska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the Constitution, civil servants should be apolitical. Do you really think that an active politician will suddenly become a neutral official? I wonder what you're trying to get with this artificial procedure. I ask the Minister: What is the real purpose of this record of transferring the Undersecretaries of State to the Civil Service Corps? Is it about being able to boast of the apparent weight loss of government administration and the fictitious reduction of government costs? It's just a transfer of money from one pocket to another. Or is this the beginning of a total civil service politicization and putting your guys in there? Do you haven't got enough jobs yet? PiS greed knows no bounds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u175	Member Tomasz Szymański, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! According to specialists from the portal Rynek Pracaty.pl a wealthy Pole earns 85 thousand. PLN per year. An amount of 85,000. PLN per year is the limit of wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the committee's reporter, is it true that, in the procedated bill, the salary limit for Undersecretaries of State, who will now be senior officials in the civil service, is marked by a multiplier of 8, i.e. the amount that the Undersecretary of State will be able to earn, together with the function add-on, will amount to 21,000. Evil? And I have to ask you: Is it true that the Undersecretary of State will earn more than any teacher in Poland, every doctor, a large majority of doctors in Poland, especially residents doctors, nurses and all those taken together who are involved in helping all those who really need this help from us in the fight against COVID? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u177	Member of Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, a friend of Frysztak called the bill a gniote. You asked for an extension of your opinion. Tonight, I'm gonna allow myself to be rattled, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, Because of that, I have two questions. Why do you allow your employees, your members, to earn more than 20,000 in a time of pandemic, that is, in a time of national belt tightening? PLN in rank of Undersecretary of State, and almost 20,000. Evil members of the Legislative Board? This is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin. Why in Art. 39 amending Article 52 of the Civil Service Act you do not wish to add to the catalogue of higher posts in the civil service of the provincial health inspector and district health inspector, although there is in this law a voivodship and district veterinarian or a provincial commercial quality inspector? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]] Well done for my predecessor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u179	Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u180	Some time ago, the Prime Minister announced that he would reduce the number of ministries. It was supposed to be such a hot chair game, such a wedding party. It is known that the number of chairs is decreasing. Whoever takes the chair wins. But the guns bill came in. There's no more hot chairs, because anyone who doesn't find a job in the ministry will find it in some company. Question: "Will we have fewer officials?" Answer: no, there will be fewer officials. Will there be soft landing? The Minister didn't answer that before. I answer, yes, there will be soft landing. Will the Undersecretaries of State make more money? Yeah, they're gonna make twice as much money. No one's talking about the publication of the COVID Act, the additions to health care professionals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question to the Minister: Why is the Prime Minister sleeping? Question to the rapporteur: Does this bill have... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Yeah, it's good for basketball.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u181	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u182	Dear Minister Dworczyk! You're a specialist in the creation of the National Hospital. So-called. I'm an authentic specialist. I worked at the hospital for four years. Therefore, I speak as a specialist with a specialist. The Lord spoke of why, on the one hand, doctors, nurses, lab workers, those who are room workers cannot receive a raise because the Prime Minister does not publish a bill that was signed by the President on 3 November. Tell that to the Polish medical department from here today. And the other thing. In the spring of this year, Polish doctors received from the Prime Minister a round of applause for their commitment. I would ask you to transform these applause into decisions. Here, in the article. 39, all are mentioned, but there are no listed ones who should be, i.e. the voivodship health centre. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the county inspectors, because they... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u183	Thank you, sir. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Or perhaps above all: Minister! You are a Deputy Minister at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, in this firm, which should publish a law giving 1 000. zł raises for medical staff. You don't publish this bill, but you want to push a bill as soon as possible at night meetings, in which you give the guys $10,000 each. raises. This is an outrage! People who risk their lives in temporary hospitals during the outbreak at the front, but also in those real hospitals, and maybe mostly in those real hospitals, ambulances, saloons, nurses, doctors - these are people who fight for the lives of Poles. And for them, $1,000. You're blocking it. You're blocking it. You're blocking it. - but of course you will. What do you say to the salon, the nurses and the doctors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u185	Mrs Monika Pawłowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u186	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This project is nothing more than the stubbornness of successive offices. You seek to make every subsequent law of the Polish state your farm, your farm of power. Not only will the earnings of the undersecretaries be astronomical, you still want an extended branch of advice, counsellors, cabinet chiefs to be re-enacted and anointed by your party apparatus. If this is an action to lose weight on the government, then just leave it alone and stop lying. Tell me how many more of these jobs you're going to create. Your bill, which you're pushing in one day, is bad, it's holes and it's inconsistent. All this shows what desperation you're in to provide your people with stools and that your shaky coalition doesn't fall apart like a house of cards. This is pathetic, small, and despicable, like your political standards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u187	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, you're destroying civilian service. The Constitution shall be made clear in Article. 153 that the civil service is acting to ensure a fair, impartial and politically neutral performance of tasks in the State. None of these people are going to do this with an emphasis on impartially and politically neutrally. The second thing is purely human. Actually, I just got off the phone with the white staff at the Kutno hospital. The hospital hasn't had a contract in three and a half weeks. At the moment, the president of this hospital resigned because he no longer knows what to say to the white staff. And you're offering 10,000. More for your own. It just takes a little restraint in all of this. Besides destroying the civilian service, you're still doing it. What are you gonna tell the nurses today? What are you gonna tell the civil servants you gave 100 zlotys to? If you're throwing your friends into the civil service now [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you want to give them $10,000 each. zł more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u189	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When Law and Justice pushes through the Sejm another amendment of the law on administrative departments, it is immediately known that it is not about improving the state, it is not about improving the functioning of the state, it is not about better organisation, it is about destruction and subsequent stools for their own. So it was in 2015, so it is today. Nothing has changed in this respect. Each further amendment is the destruction of state administration to an even deeper extent. Aren't you ashamed? Today, when entrepreneurs are fighting to keep their businesses alive, when people are fighting to keep their jobs, when people in hospitals and people doing medical jobs are saving us from a complete breakdown, you are dealing with more apanages and more stools for yours. Instead of saving the country, you keep the COVID Act unpublished. Isn't it just embarrassing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u191	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's an important bill. You're ordering government administration, but you're treating this argument a little bit step-by-step. I wanted to ask you... Today we all know that Deputy Prime Minister Gliński is in the field of sports, we want to create a National Sports Centre under this law. But not so long ago, November 13th, the government's attorney for the.. the organisation of the championships, the European Games in Małopolska in Krakow became the Minister of State Assets. Aren't you afraid these games are gonna go down? Representatives of 50 countries will participate, 23 disciplines. Will this power of attorney be passed on later to the president of the sports centre or not? Is this still with Minister Sasin? One more question. Yesterday, we were asking questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the Seym Court for the remuneration of the President of the National Sports Centre... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u193	Thank you, sir, thank you. Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland and the Polish People's Party, I want to ask a question. Will the changes resulting from this law, which only seemingly removes part of the jobs, really shifts tasks and positions, improve the government's work? Will they bring savings? Or will it be the opposite - first there will be huge costs of adapting the nomenclature and the administration as a whole? Are there calculated adjustment costs and personnel costs? Will it not be so that these changes will cost us, Poles, much, much more? Have these costs been calculated? Today, when all industries are on the verge of bankruptcy, Poles want to know how much it will cost us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u195	Mr Stefan Krajewski, club of the Polish People's Party. Last one. Not the last one. The last one on that list. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u196	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For the last five years, the PiS has done nothing but remove the ministry, create new jobs, delete the positions of secretaries, undersecretaries, so that the United Right doesn't fall apart. You have to give them money, give them limos, then they'll stay, because if they don't, maybe they'll be looking for fructs somewhere else. Unfortunately, printers probably make the most money in this reform, because apart from the fact that you are printing a lot of money, you still have to print labels with the names of the ministries, with the names of the next functions occupied. That's what it looks like today. Unfortunately, tea without sugar will not be sweeter than mixing. Similarly, the ministries will not function more efficiently if you do not fill them with content and prepared people. When are you gonna make these changes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause for now... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u197	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers Michał Dworczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Microphone. I understand emotions, I understand all this, but remember one thing: the aim of this law is to improve and improve the efficiency of administration. Unfortunately, in the case of most speeches, which I will speak about in a moment, I have heard something completely different. Of course, there were such statements - with which I can either agree or disagree - which were substantive, referring to concrete facts or concrete decisions, proposals for provisions, such as the statements by Mrs Gill-Friday or Mr Szopiński. I may disagree on the solutions concerning sport or forest management, but these were statements concerning substance. On the other hand, most of these statements, which have died here, are simply disgusting and embarrassing, because, please, in the case of most of these statements, there is one goal: to awaken hatred, populism at its worst, to accuse others and to sting political opponents. Ladies and gentlemen, if earlier, yesterday, as we talked about, I thought that some of your statements were simply due to incompetence, from the fact that you did not read this law and the OSR - and most of the answers to the questions that appeared are in the OSR - so today I know that this is a different goal, that is a purely political goal. You're just cynical about lying, trying to play on your emotions, talking about people who died during the epidemic. I don't know, maybe you've read somewhere that a repeated lie eventually becomes a fact, but it's not. The Prime Minister teaches us that. That's not true. Lies concerning e.g. the salaries of the Legislative Council, which do not change, and that is what I showed you yesterday, Mr President, by showing the draft regulation at the committee meeting. Lies about the number of members of the Legislative Board. We could multiply these examples. I'm really ashamed sometimes, because I'm also an MP, that this level of discussion in this room is what we do to each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u199	The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Konrad Frysztak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u200	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You're ashamed. Very well, you should be ashamed. You should be ashamed that you brought such a scumbag to the High House. You should be ashamed that there are a lot of mistakes, stupidities written in this bill. But first of all, you should be ashamed that you haven't told the truth about the salaries of your government colleagues, those undersecretaries of state you'll have to shove in the ministries. In KPRM, like I said, you're gonna run out of desks. The question of Mrs Skowronska is whether this law is suitable for basketball. Of course it's good for basketball, because in a pandemic age, you raise your pay. This is a basic argument, first and basic: you raise pay for your colleagues. Mr Szymański asked me about the Legislative Council. You say it's a lie that you explained something. So where was this entry for 20 members from the current rule? You just took out the maximum number of members. The fact that you're showing some kind of regulation today... After all, your regulations, as one of the Members said yesterday, actually appear at any time, and this law is in its own way sanctioning other regulations. These are your friend's words, which I'm sure you should be ashamed of, but if you're ashamed of him, I don't know. Mr Gawkowski asked me whether this law actually carries such an increase in wages. Yeah, it brings such an increase in wages. Is it true that this is going to be a multiple salary in relation to doctors' salaries, nurses? Yeah, it's gonna be a salary increase. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be that in a few hours you want to pass a bill that increases pay in a time of crisis, a time of pandemic. You should be ashamed of yourself for that. And I appeal to you, Minister: shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u201	The discussion is closed. Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. I was mentioned. But you've been straightened out before. I was mentioned. As at the time of the second reading, amendments were submitted to the bill submitted... Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. The Minister replaced me. ...I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u202	Dear Minister, I'd like to address you again with a hot appeal. As I said, sport does not divide, sport can combine both those on the right side and those on the left side. As far as the provisions of this bill are concerned, nothing will happen. You know very well that if you draw from this law what concerns solutions in the field of the functioning of Polish sport, this may be in line with the method of proceding adopted by the Parliamentary Committee on Physical Culture. This can be evaluated by Polish sports unions, it can be evaluated by all those who are excellent theorists in Poland when it comes to sports management and functioning. Once again, I ask the Minister kindly to make such a decision by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u203	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and certain other laws (prints Nos 734 and 737). I would like to ask Mrs Agata Wojtyszek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u204	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and certain other laws, print No 734. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on 10 November 2020 for the purpose of first reading. The Commissions: Infrastructure and Local Government and Regional Policy, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 18 November 2020, request the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The Commission worked in accordance with and after a calm, substantive discussion with a large majority of votes, the draft adopted. 46 Members voted in favour, 1 Member abstained. This is a very important bill. The changes are based on the provisions that have resulted from the experience of this committee's two-year work. The aim of the proposed changes is primarily to create new categories of tasks which will be financed from this fund, including tasks consisting in the construction of bypasses during the voivodship roads and the construction, reconstruction or renovation of voivodship, district, municipal roads, which are on the management board of the president of the city, in which the seat of the voivodship office or the seymium of the voivodship is located. The Act will also allow the funding of tasks consisting in improving pedestrian safety within pedestrian crossings. So far there have been no such solutions, this law contains them. All the changes that are contained in the Act will make it possible for local governments to benefit much better from this fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u205	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on the Fund for Roads and some other laws. The Act of 23 October 2018 on the Self-Government Road Fund introduced a mechanism for the effective development of investments aimed at the development of road infrastructure. The task of the proposed law, which is the subject of the High House today, is to introduce amendments aimed at extending the catalogue of investment tasks that can be implemented using the funds of this fund. The draft law provides for the possibility of investing these funds for the task of building bypasses in the voivodship roads, so-called. Bypass tasks, construction, reconstruction or renovation of voivodship roads, district roads and municipal roads managed by the president of the city on the rights of the voivodeship district or the Marshal of the Sejm of the voivodship, so-called. urban tasks. In addition, the Act is to introduce mechanisms to promote measures to increase the number of bypasses in district and municipal roads. It is proposed to introduce an additional category of tasks co-financed by the Fund to improve pedestrian safety in the area of impact of pedestrian crossings. Dogs are a group of road users particularly vulnerable to road traffic incidents. The statistics on pedestrian accidents show that the accident rate is higher than the EU average and the indicators of most European Union countries. In line with current investment practice of road managers, investments in infrastructure aimed at improving pedestrian safety are treated as part of larger investments. On the other hand, there are few mechanisms to finance tasks aimed at improving pedestrian safety without the need for major road investments. The proposed changes will encourage beneficiaries of funds from the Fund to apply for funding for investments to improve the situation of the weakest participants in the movement, i.e. pedestrians. The project also envisages a modification of the way in which the sources of funding of the fund are determined from the part of the budget of the State, with the responsibility of the Minister for National Defence and the Minister responsible for Transport respectively. In place of the existing targeted grant, it is proposed to introduce contributions to the Fund. This will make it possible to make the rules for the transfer and clearance of funds from the State budget more flexible. This will enable greater tasks to be carried out, which are in most cases multi-annual tasks. The changes made will not exclude the spending of public funds at the fund's disposal from proper control. The fund manager will continue to be required to draw up the annual financial plan and to report on the implementation of the Fund's annual financial plan. In addition, the Minister responsible for Transport will be required to submit a summary report to the President of the Council of Ministers each year on the implementation of the Fund's tasks. In addition, the changes in the law currently under review provide additional investments, which will contribute to economic development, especially in the case of companies which could also suffer some losses as a result of pandemics, as well as real financial aid for local government units, local governments, from municipalities to districts, Marshal's offices. In order to be able to make expensive road investments, it will be possible to finance them. The introduction of these changes will benefit from adjusting the fund's funding rules to the actual needs. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill in its proposed form and proposes two amendments. One, very important, namely to increase the reserve list. So far, according to the records that apply today, 50% The reserve list was those local government units... 50% on the basic list. And now we want to increase the reserve list to 75%. the basic list, because we have this experience that as a result of tenders, money remains, of course, in the region concerned, and we want as many beneficiaries as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This fund could have been used. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u207	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u208	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the club's position regarding printing No 734, the draft law amending the Act on the Fund for Local Roads and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a very good opportunity to correct the often repeated words by Prime Minister Morawiecki, that after previous governments, the Civic Platform and the PSL, he found Polish roads in ruins and only now, I quote the Prime Minister, he will build up the way. Of course, that's a lie. It's worth remembering: 3,000. km express cars and highways, 13 thousand. km of local roads and 100 bypasses - but this is during the times of PO and PSL. In the years 2005-2007, during the rule of law and justice, it is weak, quite weak, only 150 km of motorways. It is worth mentioning this, because only the idea of Minister Schetin - this common name of the program did not come from space - gave a new breath to the Polish local roads. It was at that time, in the years 2009 and 2011, that almost 8 thousand were modernised. km of roads. What I'm saying is that for the law and justice, the road so far has not been a priority. Let's take a look at the table on how the construction looked like since 2015. Motorways: 2016 - 80 km, 2017 - 0 km, 2018 - 0 km, 2019 - 0 km. National roads of Class G, i.e. this main, accelerated traffic, please: 2016 - 12 km, 2017 - 55 km, 2018 - all 19 km, 2019 - 0. If we were to compare the period of 2015,2019, it was built less than 1000 km over the four years. Tell me about S. That's what the Platform and PSL government built in two years. It is also worth mentioning. But we are now moving on to the program of the Self-Government Road Fund, which the government announced even before the municipal elections. He was supposed to walk very well, of course he was going to finance road investments. Let's see how the money was transferred. All you have to do is listen to the local government. I will quote one of them: This is the least transparent mechanism for the distribution of public funds that I have learned in recent years, the Prime Minister can give public money to someone without concrete justification and take it away from someone. There are many examples, we read how the money is taken. Example: 6 million zlotys of grants received one of the chiefs for renovation of the road, it turned out that he even received a commemorative voucher, but later the Prime Minister erased it. 11 other local governments from the same voivodship - exactly the same. They signed it, a conference was held, and then it turned out the Prime Minister erased it. And this is the main charge of all local governments that it is de facto very discretionary. One of the professors, Professor Paweł Swaniewicz, in the report of the Community, a very important letter for local government officials, describes this program, which operates for several months: The advantage of grants received by municipalities whose authorities are associated with the PiS is very clear. The least support is given to municipalities governed by opposition groups. More than half of these municipalities received no grant. This is how it is to share this money. And, of course, there is also a problem with the transfer of these funds and the timing of the transfer of these funds, so not only the lack of transparency, but also the pace of the mobilisation of these funds. The programme itself, modelled on the Civil Platform and PSL programme, is very good. What, though, is this change in addition to increasing the resources that are needed? Change of name. This time, despite the fact that this will apply to local roads, the government came up with the idea that it would cross out the word: local government, so that there would only be a government fund. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just such a purely PR play to show that it is the government, although the government is only funding, local governments have to transfer some of the money to make these investments happen. But the government doesn't treat local governments as partners, so we know, not only when it comes to road investments, but also when it comes to other areas. I will therefore make three amendments on behalf of the Civic Coalition. One amendment is among others. At the request of local authorities too - the idea is to treat them... to emphasize the partner nature of these investments. The second amendment concerns the avoidance of a situation where, in a very short period of time, the bypass becomes de facto an urban road which does not fulfil its original functions in any way - it is a matter of detail. And another amendment - the aim is to define clearly and clearly the resources from the Government Local Investment Fund [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the context of the provision of Article. 17. And these are the three amendments I'm putting forward. The Civic Coalition, of course, supports this project, while... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Self-Government Road Fund is probably the silent dream of every self-governmentman and every Member. With the eyes of my imagination, I can see how the Lipna bypasses, the Golubia-Dobrzynia bypass, the Brodnica bypass, Rypina, how the midway in Grudziądz will be built at a rather rapid pace, as finally, because this fund is now to be concerned, there is a Western bridge in Toruń - the third road bridge as a new road connection with the third bridge in Włocławek is created. It's a dream. The dream, of course, is limited, first of all, by modest budgetary means, because actually I have already exhausted this amount of PLN 3 billion, which is planned to increase this Fund for Roads of the Local Government. And of course this project will not pass, even if it finds its justification in the decisions of the committee, because this fund is probably the most discretionary fund from all the special funds that operate in Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This will also be the case for one of the amendments which the Left Club will, in principle accepting this submission, bring. We will recommend that the reserve available to the President of the Council of Ministers be reduced from the current 5% up to 1%. The second point, the second amendment which the Left Club will propose, concerns the name itself. The thing is not trivial in spite of appearances. The name that is currently being proposed is clearly misleading. This fund is a government fund, not just a government fund. It also applies, if I understand it correctly, not only to the development of these roads, bridges and bypasses, but also to their renovation. If something's working, let's not get ahead of ourselves. We propose to leave the name to date. Perhaps it's the right thing to do. Here I will refer to the achievements of the previous PO-PSL coalition. What used to be called sketches worked. I understand that this fund is kind of modelled on this idea. Good. We must praise our predecessors and even competition when these ideas were good and effective. I regret that the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, does not want to cultivate this kind of political culture, even on such seemingly neutral ground as the infrastructure, which are the roads. High Izbo! I am also glad, and it is also worth emphasising that emphasis is placed on what is achievable, what is real, because if I was able to just mention so many infrastructure projects in the field of roads, then I am convinced that each of the Members present here is able to present their wishlist or list of dreams, and that means that we are slowly saying goodbye to the cosmic plans of the rule of law and justice regarding the Central Communication Port called the Central Airport of the Lambs in this part of the air. Very good. Unfortunately, life, also due to a pandemic, has verified these plans. Perhaps the railway module will be, and nicely, or perhaps all the measures that were planned, or at least a significant part of them were planned, to the airport, will be transferred in one way or another to the Self-Government Road Fund. I am convinced that they will be used faster and faster, and more efficiently, and with greater benefit for citizens, for our voters. One more remark, quite by the way. Of course, it was explained to me that the National Road Fund and this fund that we are currently debating, the Self-Government Road Fund, are like special funds from different worlds and fairy tales. However, I note that, above all, they are connected by users, beneficiaries, and there is a logic that is worth taking into account not only at the level of the minister responsible for transport or the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Perhaps this coordination, which is lacking, could have been better carried out here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u211	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u212	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland regarding the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and some other laws. Maybe I'll start with history, because the idea behind this was my sympathetic friend at the Jan Łopata club, who offered this solution to the Prime Minister at the time, later on the name of Minister Schetin - Schetinówki. I understand you don't want anyone from the PSL to perform or the Civic Coalition, just the Self-Government Road Fund. After all, there are self-governments and law and justice, and the United Right. What's bothering you? Everything must be government. Everything must be national. There are local governments that built roads and built them all the time. We as representatives of local governments, but also previously acting in government, thought that the roads were not political. Dear PiS, local governmentmen from you also received money if they had a project, if they wanted to build a road, because it is intended to serve all Poles and Poles. It can't be that someone is to suffer for not choosing a candidate from the PiS and ruling a self-governmentman who is not involved with any party and doesn't want to be a member of you. Then let's not give him money - that's what you've been doing lately. As a rule, changes are needed. You have to build bypasses on the voivodship roads. If you involve local governments in this, maybe you can. 100 bypasses are standing still. The Podlaskie Voivodeship, from which I come, is waiting for the bypasses of Sztabin, Suchowoli, Zambrowa. The Białobrzegi are waiting. There's a need for investment that you haven't started. Of course, if local governments do it and you hand over that money, it'll work. But where will the money be taken from? There are a lot of sources of funding. There was supposed to be funding for the bus service, and today money goes on the road. You don't want to finance the bus service. People don't want to use your show. Something's wrong. We're still looking. Of course, the environmental and water management fund. Instead of regulating water, they will build roads for this money. Of course, the forest farm of the State Forests. When we offered that money, PiS accused us of trying to rob the woods, that we wanted to privatize these woods. Today you reach for the money to build these roads, the bypasses. Treasury companies. You know, this money can be spent on anything, just like the Justice Fund you've created. Today, too, this money will be spilled from one pocket to another. Then there's going to be a story about how much more money PiS has made. Of course, local government officials are waiting for these investments. We want to rebuild municipal, district and voivodship roads. These are very necessary things. Of course, it is about increasing pedestrian safety. Overall, increasing road safety should bring us all together. That is why, of course, we will support this proposal, we will vote in favour of all the amendments tabled during the committee, because they are needed. But really, once again, there is a request: don't change the title of the bill itself, because it doesn't bring anything. You want to show good will in the case of cooperation with local governments, but once again I will remind you of what I said at the beginning: not only with my local authorities, but with everyone. Government and self-government cooperation should be. The communal union, like the county union, the town union, says it's a good thing that these changes are happening. More can be done, built, renovated these roads. And that's the right line. But nothing's gonna change since the law changed. I'm asking you again. This was also discussed at the committee meeting by various political backgrounds. This was also the case with local government officials. It's worth hearing. If you insist, you will thus show that you do not listen to the opposition in any, even the simplest thing. And then you say we don't want to work with you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start working together, we're working with you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u213	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u214	Road construction is one of those areas that, unfortunately, the state must deal with, which even the greatest freedom fighters mostly admit. Here's your chance to prove yourself in practice. But a country that tries to take care of everything doesn't do anything right. Our country is trying to do sports, art, electromobility, making television, instructing doctors on how to cure, bakers, how they have a furnace, farmers, how to grow animals, and eventually does nothing right. We have hopeless roads, poor sport, dying art, and bureaucracy disturbs everyone one by one: doctors, farmers and bakers at work. Let's try to focus on the roads. But let us also not create around this illusion or delusion that this is starting our economy in crisis. No, it doesn't. The money on the roads is money taken from citizens in taxes, like all the money that the government has. If they hadn't been taken, they would have been spent on something else by the citizens, not on the roads. From an economic point of view, it certainly doesn't save anything here and now. The use of the roads will, of course, be in the future, because instead of going for about two hours, we will go for 1 hour. And that's great. But here and now it doesn't start the economy, it's just going to replace some of the expenses that citizens would make, some of those that the government will make, in this case it's going to turn into roads. This is, of course, not an argument against these expenditures, against expensive ones, of course the roads are good investments for the future, but let's stop repeating this false argument, which appears here over and over again in various government justifications, including that it is a start-up of the economy. It's another mutation of Frederick Bastiat's broken glass myth that I'm sending back to. On the other hand, you have to earn money on the roads, and you're smothering the economy, you're not letting it work, you're choking it with further restrictions, which makes it difficult for citizens to earn their way. It's not the Minister, it's not the Members who earn it, it's the citizens who get in the way. Another thing is that the government promises us only more expenses in each project. We have less and less money from a declining economy, and I have not heard in any case that we are going to give up on something in these difficult times, to limit something. As for the law itself, one thing raises huge reservations. The money to go on the roads, to expand the roads, according to this law, will also be spent on their devastation, i.e. on the setting of slowing thresholds. There are many things that can be done to improve the safety of pedestrians: better lighting of transitions, which is also mentioned in this law, revision of their location, introduction of thresholds, e.g. as a German model, so that there are optional transitions on which pedestrians do not have priority, reducing the number of transitions with priority which are currently abused, allowing them to move beyond transitions to their own risk. This is something I would expect from the government as a pedestrian. But building slowers or narrowing roads, which is also meant to be used for money from this fund, is a manifest sabotage. Then why are we renovating, expanding roads, removing holes in them, turning them, bumping them to destroy them, narrowing them down and building artificial railroads and bumps? Slowing thresholds are punishing everyone for driving the wrong car. We all have to pour coffee on these verteps, destroy the suspension, waste the speed up to 10 km/h without sense, because most of these thresholds are so constructed that they de facto force the speed much below the permissible limit on this section, just because local governments and governments misdesign transitions, wrongly, without imagination regulate traffic, and then always blame the drivers. The slowing thresholds destroy roads, cause noise, increase combustion, and thus indirectly destroy the environment, spoil cars, constitute obstacles to ambulances or fire department. This is the way to nowhere. Some cities are already riding like a safari in Kenya, because every now and then the threshold, the narrowing, the chicane, the renovation. If you really want to take care of pedestrians, consider a few things, e.g. Maybe you have to give up the stupid idea of driving at lights during the day, because Austria withdrew, among other things. because of this unfortunate idea that it was noticed that the number of accidents on the roads decreased slightly, but the number of pedestrian deductions increased because pedestrians did not shine on the road. Drivers get used to observing glowing objects, objects. If you really want to take care of the pedestrians, maybe you need to take them. considering the change in the operating system of the OC, because at the moment the OC removes from the perpetrator the entire burden of responsibility. If this is to remain mandatory at all, perhaps it would be a good idea to change the rules in such a way that claims against the perpetrator, at least a serious accident, where guilt is not questionable, were first met with his assets, and only after his financial capacity was exhausted, after selling the last pair of shoes, with an OC policy. Of course, the policy should be cheaper then, but that's another topic. The unsub should have in the back of his head that it could ruin him, and then he'll drive carefully. If we could get insurance from going to prison, it'd probably be more crime than less. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we support the construction of roads, but not this way, we're counting on changes in the next stage. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u215	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, because today's session is up to an hour. Three more or less... 20 people came forward to ask questions, and I have a question about whether any of you would like to come forward? One person, right? Yeah, me too. If you don't mind, I'm closing the list for an hour. Yes, please, 21 people. Mr. Marshal, do you know what time the vote will be? We do not know what time the vote will be. I think you have to look for votes about an hour. 21, but I don't know exactly, that's what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, 21 people. I'm closing the list. I'm asking you not to blame me. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u216	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Surely you must be commended for continuing what is good, what started the Civic Platform. Over the years you've been in charge for five years, you've shown that the show was good. Of course, it needs to be changed, and it's a good thing that you're doing this, that you're putting in more money that can be used for these purposes today. I wanted to ask you, Minister, because we really are living in a pandemic, communities are getting less and less revenue, and you are putting more and more additional tasks on local governments, and there is no money going for it. Haven't you considered and wondered that maybe, in terms of own contribution, it would have to be a little slowed down, reduced to the municipalities. Because we say 50% to 80%, that's some other margin, but that's 20%. optimally, each municipality must pay in. Don't you think about going a little bit more normally at this time of crisis into the subject of these roads? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second question. Last call was in August, September. I wanted to ask you if the right method is That you're just going to make a decision next year. After all, local governments are building, budgets are being adopted this year, they have to conclude by 15 November. Whether this decision-making issue is to be taken by the State in the course of this budget period, when the municipalities are allowed to adopt the budget or not, because, as I said, August, September, as far as I am concerned, is still missing information. I recommend the conclusions of Jastrzębie-Zdrój and the ancient fishing industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u217	Thank you very much. Greetings, old-timers. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The extension of this fund, as well as the extension of this fund by such tasks as bypasses, bridges, overpasses, is very useful. The extension of this fund about the city on the rights of the county which is the seat of the voivodships is also very deliberate and was expected by local authorities. In the case of such a city as Poznań, which I represent, it is all the more desirable, because Poznań has been at the intersection of international routes north-south-east-west, driven by heavy transport and not only. The construction of the third and fourth frameworks, i.e. bypasses of the city of Poznań, is not real in the context of next year. Each of these bypasses would cost 3 billion. On the other hand, I wanted to ask, on behalf of Poznań and also the interclub, the Wielkopolska Parliamentary Group, about the following task (The Bell). Whether there are viaducts in this fund: Gołężycka, Podolany, Kurrzyka in Poznań, nodes: Nowa Naramowicka, Grunwaldzka and Wola, as well as bridges within the district road Luboń - Czapury nad Warta, also bypass Jeżyc, ul. St. Lorenzo, stage two. And last question: What about the extension of the voivodeship road 431 in the communes of Kórnik, Puszczykowo, Mosina? It was to be completed by 2022. Will these tasks be carried out in the next year's fund? Thank you. Marshal's Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u219	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a heartfelt request because the first two questions were after one and a half minutes. For the sake of Members and Members who will be seated until noon. Three, I'm just gonna be polite, but I'm definitely interrupting after a minute. Excuse me. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is in the vital interest of all Poles to build a comprehensive road network at every level and beyond political divisions using such programmes. I would like to appeal from this place to the government and ask about securing funds for three key investments in the Częstochowa region, which will pave the way for traffic on the north-south or Kielce-Opole axis. Will there be funds for the DK1-DK46 communication node with the Bugajski section? Another key task in Częstochowa is the construction of an extension of the street. 1 May to ul. Krakowska. This investment will lead to the exit of transit from the city centre. The last key road task in the region is, in my opinion, the departure of transit traffic from Kłobuck through the construction of a bypass, as the inhabitants of this charming village dream of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to the right decisions of decision-makers, these dreams can come true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mine have come true, time is fine. Mrs Marta Wcislo, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have a chance to make amends to this bill that you've ruined before. You took money to build roads for cities on the rights of a county such as Lublin, as I have told you many times. I have interpelled in this matter and I am glad that my interpellations have resulted in a bill. But you also have a chance to repair what you recently broke in Lublin and Lublin, because you deprived Lublin Airport of help and support in connection with the crisis caused by the epidemic, even though in June, in response to my interpellation, the Ministry provided this assistance. Why are you lying like that? Why would there be help, and now there's no help? Lublin region, the poorest region in Poland and the European Union, will not receive aid because according to the Ministry the loss shown by the airport does not fall within the definition of loss. It's just absurd. Prime Minister! Minister! Ministers of Lublin! I appeal for help and demand assistance for Lublin Airport, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause in a minute, planes won't fly over Lublin, but crows will turn around. Is that what this is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u224	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! $3,000. km of motorways and expressways, 13 thousand. km of national roads, 10,000. Schetynówek - this is the balance of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. We found you Poland wooden, and we left Poland, which has normal communication at European level. If you've only built $1,000. km of roads, that's it. It's just that we've been pulled back many, many years. I would like to give you two examples. First of all, I'd ask you to take care of this case. Two years of delays in the construction of the S3 road we left you on the Polkowice-Lubin section. People are dying out there. This is an extremely dangerous road. Two years late, and you can't end this way. The symbol is the footbridge above the national road in Lubin, which was collapsed a year and a half ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's been a year and a half, and you haven't done anything about it. I will submit an amendment to make this place safe for the inhabitants of Lubin and Lower Silesia. Because it's a symbol of your power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u225	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paul Hreniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today we are working on amendments to the Local Roads Fund Act. For two years this law has really served the local community very well. We've got better and better municipal and district roads. It really is something to boast about, just go to Poland. I also have a very specific question for the Minister. The Minister responsible, the Minister of Infrastructure, can determine the maximum number of requests submitted by individual local governments of voivodships concerning roads in the voivodship roads and bypasses. I'd like to ask you about the criteria. What criteria will be followed by the Ministry when it determines the maximum number of applications that can be submitted by individual voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u227	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have said many times that it is necessary to extend the programme on local roads to voivodeship roads. It's happening now. Not in the whole range, but to some extent. We're talking about urban bypasses, we're talking about cities that are the capitals of voivodships. What I'm trying to say is that there are as important cases as this. Opole Power Plant case. It is about large investments where there is a need to build bypasses. Let me give you an example of the Great Goodness ring road. This will fit in the limit of PLN 100 million, while President Opole must spend 60% , and the marshal - 40%. I know that the limits have been set in the act vice versa: 30% can be issued by the president and 60% can be issued by the president. or 70% - Marshal. I would ask you to answer in writing whether the Goodness ring road will fit in these regulations or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This year's Local Roads Fund, and a few years ago so-called. schematics. They were designed to give money to local governments that do not have their own resources, and have the most roads to rebuild, i.e. they were designed to help repair these roads especially to powiats, but also to municipalities. Now you turn it into a national road fund and transfer PLN 2 billion to the bypasses of voivodships and PLN 1 billion to roads in cities. I think it's about big, voivodship and county rights. And now the question is, what about these land districts, what about these municipalities? Will the amount still be used for this year's Self-Government Road Fund only for municipalities and districts? We cannot compare the county with the voivodship, because the voivodship has other resources, other income, other money, even EU money for road repairs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The county doesn't have any money. I'm worried about the county and the communes. I have a question: Will it not reduce the money for the renovation of county and municipal roads? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the rules are going in the right direction, and I think we agree on that. Some of these are from our proposals and comments that we made in 2018. It's a good thing the Ministry followed this line of thinking, because I think it's good for the fund and for the development of roads. I wanted to ask the Minister how it would be with pedestrian crossings, because I believe that the issues of building transitions for pedestrians, infrastructure... I see the Minister doesn't seem to be listening to me, and that's an important question. Maybe I'd ask you to stop time. Minister... But you're from the Ministry. What's so funny, Minister? I don't know why the Minister is on the phone right now. That's rude. It's a really important question. I'm talking to the committee chairman. We're setting a date for the committee meeting. You came here to answer, and you're talking to the committee president? It is about pedestrian crossings, whether there will be some new guidelines for road construction, because this is of course a better direction than some (The Bell) definition of this regulation. Two remarks, if the marshal in view of this incident permits. The first thing is to change the name of the fund. However, Minister, I believe that this is such an expression of pettyness, because, in fact, if we get to the point, it should be a social fund, because it is of our taxes and of the taxes of the workers. On the other hand, the article. 5, on the development of bus transport and these measures, I consider a rather strong failure of the government. It's a shame the Ministry didn't sit down with us and the local government. However, the aim is to make good use of these funds for the development of bus transport, for what the second fund was created for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please, Franek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u234	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government intends to turn the Self-Government Road Fund into the Government's Road Development Fund. The change of name itself shows the thinking of the current authority, which gradually dismantles self-government and deprives it of autonomy and decision-making. The fund will include cities on the rights of the county, and the Prime Minister will have the right to remove and add projects from the list, as well as to distribute 5% the funds from the reserve fund. Local government officials point out that the selection process also raises doubts. Therefore, I have a question: Were the changes included in the project consulted with local governments and how? Unfortunately, we know the answer: they weren't. Stop saying you know everything better than local governments. The renovation of roads, crossings or pedestrian crossings should be decided by local authorities, not by the minister or prime minister somewhere in a remote office. The second question I have is that the fund (the bell) will be provided with unused funds from the Bus Development Fund. I'm almost done. Minister! P.S.'s down. This week protests took place throughout Poland, during which carriers asked for any support. Tens of thousands of drivers could lose their jobs. Why is it so easy for you to give up on the support of collective transport, which has been facing the biggest crisis in years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. I'm sorry about the messenger and the missus I missed, but I've got an appointment with the O.R. that I'm not gonna write any more, remember? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u236	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! PiS decided to heroically extend its competence to the possibility of building bypasses in the voivodship roads, as if it had not been possible so far on much simpler principles. But PR is what's best for this government. And I would advise that the PiS should start fulfilling its promises, such as the recent elections. I'd say 100 bypasses. Recently I asked the director of the national management in Łódź about the construction of bypasses in the Łódź voivodship. And what answer did I get? Bypass of Hunter - 2030, bypass of Wielenia - 2030, bypass of Brzezin - 2029, bypass of Błaszek - 2029, bypass of Serock - 2027 You might as well have promised that this opposition would build this ring road when it comes to power. And I have a question about the Sulejov ring road on the S12 expressway. When will she rise? [[♪ The bell ♪]] During the last election, you promised everything was ready. You can't live there until today. What about Tomaszov Mazowiecki's bypass? These are the basic questions to you about the things you promised so far. You should do it before you start promising new things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u238	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The specific question is: If the bypasses are carried out in stages due to costs, will it be possible to finance the next stage, not necessarily the whole of the task? Will that be possible? And at the time when the first recruitment for voivodships will be available - is there a short time to submit documentation - will it be possible to complete the documentation until the contract is signed? This, however, is quite essential here. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of bypasses, time for documentation is quite long. Dear Minister, Your boss doesn't want to see me, but it's up to you tonight to meet the shipbuilding industry. Do not destroy the shipyard in Świnoujście. There's still 200 people working there. These people want to keep working and repairing these ships. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u240	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I'm from Radom. As the former Vice President of Radom, I wanted to tell you that we have built a new health centre with the impositions resulting from the decision of the government of the Civic Platform in Radom. As vice president, I applied to the Self-Government Road Fund created by you, by your government, actually transformed from a good scheme of sketches, for the construction of a street. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Beer. What do you think we got as Radom money for the road? We didn't get it, ladies and gentlemen, because the PiS is giving their money. He gives his local governments and this accusation was repeatedly directed against you by the Polish Towns Association, which Radom is also a member, and I worked on his board. This year Radom proposed once again about ul Włacą and ul. A beer to build such an important road in an epidemic by the health centre. We also requested ul. Chroatian. I am curious, Minister, if, according to (the bell) this program will be for all local governments, whether it will actually only be for the so-called. It's written self-governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. It's a lie. It's a lie. The formal conclusion was good. This decision of the Minister... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Better late than never - it is a saying. At this introduction, I will stop and get straight to the point. Minister, I have a question about three key investments from my constituency. The road node in Pszczyna connecting the national road is located in the programme for the Silesian voivodship and in the strategic plan of responsible development, is part of the... The Prime Minister himself promised in Silesia during the campaign that it would be built, unfortunately it fell off the agenda. Will he be on this program now that the bill is passed? The second thing I want to ask is: for years I have been invoking and interrogating on the Beskidway of Integration. Is she gonna be on the plan? And Szczyrk, ladies and gentlemen, broadening the roundabout at the intersection of the voivodship road, ul. Beskidzka, with the county. Are these three investments, Minister... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, I am so sorry, I now have a minute. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these three investments... There's a lot more, but I didn't have time to ask all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I listened to a lot of speeches and I don't want to use the word "lying," but, ladies and gentlemen, you supported it, you enjoyed it, yesterday we had a committee meeting, you enjoyed the change... We listen to you because you've paid attention so many times that the voivodeship roads are included here, so that in the cities where the voivodeship is based, the marshals can be repaired too, and these records have been introduced, additional money has been introduced. Success has many fathers, my dear country, but it was the government of Law and Justice that dared to introduce such a fund with huge money. That's not 800 million a year. These are billions a year. Minister, I would like to ask how many thousands of roads this fund has built in Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u245	Thank you very much. I kindly invite Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u246	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I wanted to ask, because here we hear a lot of praise for the pre-existing programs, very noble and necessary, as it looks in reality. How much has it been in the last two years... What amounts were allocated to support local authorities for these investments? How does this simply apply to amounts in previous years, in previous programmes, before the programme we are talking about today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I know that the discussion, the debate should be on the ground, not on the roll of untruths, half-truths or even lies. Ladies and gentlemen! The messages from the speaker, especially from the opposition, are so easy to pass through the mouth that the government of the Law and Justice Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki divides and gives only to the written self-governments, he gives only to his own. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst lie I've ever heard. I give an example: I am an inhabitant of the Częstochowa district and honourable ladies, my district is managed by the Polish People's Party, [[Applause]] And do you have any idea how much he's been given right now for the tasks of the Self-Government Road Fund? 27 million out of three investments that will be implemented within 3 years. [[Applause]] But do you know how much he got in 2014? Less than three million. Where do you applaud now, don't you applaud? [[Applause]] Local government roads were really in a mess, I was a councilman, and I know what it looked like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u250	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to many statements about the transfer of funds and the decision by the Prime Minister, I would like to say that the governor sent it to the voivodeship, the voivode usually reported a road investment, but as it had already landed in the Ministry and in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister took a pen and erased it with this pen. In the report of the Community, the weekly self-governments - he is on the website, you can see - it is clearly stated that half of the municipalities in which the opposition rules did not receive any grant. On the other hand, I would like to quote Mr Krzysztof Sobolewski, who said: If one of the opposition senators promised e.g. building a sports hall, then when he reports to the PiS, the government will find the money for it, such a senator will have a much better chance that the project will be carried out, being in a ruling camp, not in opposition. This quote is the best summary of how you think: if you're with us, we'll put your communities on the halls or on the roads. If you're not here, we won't give you. That's what Krzysztof Sobolewski said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Wontor, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u252	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law sets out the criteria for the allocation of funds by voivodship, but there are virtually no criteria for the choice of specific investments to receive funds. It is a discretionary system. Do you not think that criteria should also be developed in this case so that these decisions are not assessed as political decisions? Second question. Local governments complain that when granting funds, you do not explain, you do not give any justification why this investment was chosen, not another one. Will it be different this year and your decisions will be supported by specific justifications explaining why a specific investment is being implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u253	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Bożena Żalewska from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It is difficult to find the reason why the law on the Roads Fund is now suddenly called: the Government Road Fund. We can only guess it. I have a question. For which purpose 5% will be allocated the reserve to remain at the disposal of the President of the Council of Ministers? Wouldn't it be better to use this money to build roads? We know that local governments are extremely burdened at this difficult time - constantly new tasks, constantly new taxes. This amount should be earmarked for investments. I still have a favor to ask. I think all 16 voivodships will get funding for the construction of roads. She'd want that to happen, and that's what I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u255	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 5 minutes is really not enough time to address all the issues and questions that have been raised in this heated discussion. In the first part of my speech, I will remain in the historical convention, because it is worth recalling what happened in the past and how the government of Law and Justice found local roads. Argument 1, ladies and gentlemen - Report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2014. NIK was then president of the former Member, former Minister of the Civic Platform, Mr Kwiatkowski. The report clearly shows the state of Polish local roads at the time: municipal and district roads. 36% municipal and district roads were in a bad state, 35% was in an unsatisfactory state. This is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber prepared by the President of Kwiatkowski, a report of the shame of your authority, a report of shame showing all activities that you did not conduct on Polish local roads. You can rely on a program that was created and functioning at the time, but you can see how inadequate it was. Fact number two, numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, the funds of the Local Roads Fund in 2019 are PLN 6 billion. All the support in your day, in the last eight years, was PLN 5.5 billion. Only during the year have we allocated to municipal and district roads more [[Applause]] than you in eight years. If we add to this year 2020, the total amount of funds allocated is PLN 9200 million. If we also take into account 2021, which will be in a moment - 12.5 billion PLN. That's the scale. the size of the financial resources which were mainly made available to municipalities and powiats during the existence of the Self-Government Road Fund. Only in 2 years, 10,000. 500 km of roads will be subject to reconstruction, modernisation. We've already signed almost 7,000. agreements. These investments have either been completed - if they were smaller - or are being carried out - if they are modernizations of larger road lines. These are, ladies and gentlemen, facts, numbers. You have the right to have your heads down now and look at your phones because there's nothing else you can do right now that you can't react differently. How many highways did you build, Minister? Ladies and gentlemen! The funds of the Self-Government Road Fund currently amount to PLN 36 billion. Thanks to this act will be increased to 39 billion PLN. So that this pool, which was previously secured for municipalities and powiats, remains, while 3 billion zlotys are new funds. What's the pot? 2 billion PLN will be spent on funding for marshal offices or for cities on the rights of powiats, if they want to build bypasses in the lines of voivodship roads, 1 billion PLN will be allocated to support 18 cities, voivodship cities, which are the seat of marshal offices or voivodship offices. One more topic, one more password. I have a lie to make about the bus fund. If the entire envelope from the bus fund, which is secured in 2020 or 2021, will be used by the local authorities, it will not be moved. We want to redirect to the Self-Government Road Fund what will be left, so that the funds that have been hard-earned are allocated to road investments and not returned to the sources from which they come. So I think it's a very positive solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, if my colleagues can help me, I'll present a list of successes. 7,000 are listed on this list. tasks - for only 2 years - financed by the Self-Government Road Fund, which are either currently being carried out or have been completed. But you're not gonna read that list? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Ladies and gentlemen! It's a 30-metre sheet. There are listed municipalities, districts from all regions, from all voivodships, which received support from the Self-Government Road Fund. Talk to these self-government officials, talk to the authorities, talk to the elders, talk to the councillors, talk to the councillors. They all called for the construction of these roads, they all tried to make these investments. And these investments are being made. See how many of these are there? We'll keep writing the story. We will continue to support local authorities in road construction because of the fact that... Will you guys stop lying? ...we want to generate money because we can do it, and because we're credible. The extension of the Self-Government Road Fund was promised by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. President Andrzej Duda also applied for this. On paper. We're doing these voices right now, these efforts we're doing. Thank you very much. 30 m.b., ladies and gentlemen. So much has been done so far with the support of the resources generated by Law and Justice. Minister, but the answers to the questions. I repeat once again: we will continue to write this story, we will support Polish local governments, municipalities and powiats. They are now coming to this voivodship city, they are coming to Marshal's offices. Such a list will cover the entire Sejm in a few years, but most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, these roads are used by Polish residents. These are roads that reach school every day, work, shop, church, cultural center, health center. These are roads that millions of Poles reach different places every day, and we will not slow down this process. This process despite the outbreak of Coronavirus, despite... Look at the moment we're here. There's an economic crisis... Minister, we're almost done. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...and the government is increasing funding for investment. Why are you spending money on this paper? The roads need to be refurbished. And we will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u257	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what you think, the idea is interesting. I'm not referring to it in substance, I'm talking about an idea. Is the rapporteur of the committee of Agata Katarzyna Wojtyszek? I'm here. Are you going to speak? Yes. I have such a kind request for you. Since I gave the minister three more minutes, could you just... Politely, politely. Mr. Marshal, the government is winding up the circuitry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u258	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that what Members of this House and Members of the opposition have said here are unbelievable lies. As far as ring-roads are concerned, even yesterday a tender was launched for the Wąchock ring road, which the Civic Platform and the PSL deleted from the list of funding. Today this, ladies and gentlemen, is happening. As far as the funding of local, municipal and district roads is concerned, in my Świętokrzyskie voivodship all local governments that submitted applications received funding. We have made three calls so that everyone who is prepared can benefit from these measures. Unfortunately, some local governments managed by PSL were not prepared at all. Only after the acquisition of power in 2018 for the first time after the preparation of the investment could applications be submitted to the Self-Government Road Fund. What will be the results of the recruitment, we'll see. The recruitments were carried out in accordance with pre-established criteria, which all local authorities knew about. That's what happened in every voivodship. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's stand in the truth. This Self-Government Road Fund is a huge resource and huge support for our residents, increasing the safety of both those living in small homelands and those who move and pass through our towns and municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u259	Thank you, Commissioner, very cordially. Please, Mr Dariusz Joński in correction mode. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we are to stand in the truth, Minister, let me give you one example of how you function and how you act. The previous government - Platforms and PSL - designed the western ring road of Łódź, adopted one of the very important nodes on Teofilów. You came, you erased that knot, then you added it. The problem is that from the junction you will be able to go not to the city of Łódź, but to the western direction, to smaller towns, just because you do not rule in Łódź. This is an example of the third largest city that is prepared for this investment. The inhabitants are waiting for this, and the state is angry you do not make a exit from this important junction for the inhabitants of Łódź towards the city, only in the opposite direction. This is an example, one of many, because time is probably missing. On the other hand, looking at the beautiful ones, [[♪ The bell ♪]] long letters, I would like to say that Minister Adamczyk has already shown, and then we saw how many highways and expressways he built. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u261	Thank you. Here you go, two appointments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! The difference between us and the Platform is that we will build the S14 expressway as the western ring road of Łódź, and you did not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u263	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on a draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union (prints Nos 733 and 742). I would very much like to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee. Mr President, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union contained in print Nos 733 and 742. The draft entered the Sejm on 4 November, and on 18 November the joint committees examined the draft law in print No 733. The aim of this project is to implement Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Polish legal order. As Members of all parliamentary clubs have said, Poland is one of the leading countries implementing this directive. They praised the high-quality government project. Directive 2018/58 stresses the importance of maintaining the proportionality of the requirements restricting access to regulated professions and regulated activities and cross-border services and aims to eliminate barriers to the pursuit of certain employment or self-employed activities arising from the adoption of disproportionate measures. The Directive lays down rules for EU countries to carry out assessments before introducing new or amending existing rules governing professions. Let me just remind you that Directive 2018/958 complements Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications. It contains an obligation to assess the abovementioned. requirements but it does not specify the criteria for these assessments. It was therefore necessary to amend the Law of 22 December 2015 on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, which implemented the 2005 Directive. The main issues included in Print Act No 733 are: firstly, an indication of the principles with which the provisions must comply, in particular the principles of proportionate, justified and non-discriminatory character; secondly, an indication of the procedures to ensure compliance of regulatory provisions with the above principles. It is therefore necessary to carry out assessments of draft regulatory provisions and to monitor their compliance. In addition, criteria have been defined to be taken into account when assessing the compliance of the rules introduced with the established rules. There is also an obligation to consult draft legislation containing regulatory provisions or requirements for the provision of cross-border services. I would also like to stress that Directive 2018/958 stresses the regulation of professions and the provision of cross-border health services which may have an impact on patient safety. In the case of health professionals, it is particularly important to ensure a high level of professional qualifications while maintaining the general principle of freedom of Member States to decide on the appropriateness and regulation of the health profession concerned. High Izbo! The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development have examined this draft law and adopted one amendment to the article. 6, which provides that the Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The committees call for the adoption by the High Government Chamber of a draft law contained in the printing report No 742. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u265	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would like to invite you, Member. Mrs Merry, this is a good sign of the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, which aims to implement into the Polish legal order Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the analysis of proportionality before the adoption of new regulations on professions, printing Nos 733 and 742. The project aims to implement European Union law. According to that Directive, the activities covered should concern regulated professions falling within the scope of Directive 2005/36/EC, which obliges Member States to assess the proportionality of the requirements which restrict access to or pursuit of regulated professions and to inform the European Commission of the results of that assessment. The principle of proportionality is one of the general principles of European Union law. In accordance with this principle and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, national provisions which may restrict or render less attractive the exercise of fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should fulfil four conditions, i.e. be adapted in a non-discriminatory manner, justified by public interest objectives, appropriate to ensure that the objective pursued is achieved and does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. Directive 2005 does not set out common criteria to be used by Member States to assess the proportionality of requirements limiting access to or pursuit of regulated professions. The peer review between Member States revealed a lack of clarity as to the criteria used in assessing the proportionality of these requirements, as well as an uneven level of control of such requirements at all levels of regulation. The 2018 Directive therefore addresses all Member States with regard to the rules for carrying out the proportionality assessment before introducing new or amending existing provisions containing requirements limiting access to or pursuit of regulated professions. Member States have been required to carry out an objective analysis of the specific circumstances characterising that Member State, which will demonstrate that the achievement of public interest objectives is in fact at risk and that it is therefore necessary to regulate access to the profession concerned. The scope of the assessment should be proportionate to the nature, content and impact of the proposed rules restricting access to regulated professions. This is to be applied without prejudice to other provisions contained in Union acts on access to the profession concerned. The amendments proposed in the draft law aim to implement the essential objectives of the 2018 Directive. Since the regulatory provisions must comply with the principles of proportionality, legitimate and discriminatory nature, the draft law provides for the need to ensure that they comply with the proposed rules and then sets out mechanisms to ensure that they comply, i.e. carry out assessments of draft regulatory provisions and monitor the compliance of regulatory rules with those principles by carrying out assessments identified for draft regulatory provisions. The proposed law does not require the submission to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, for the purpose of obtaining an opinion, notification, consultation or agreement. The Act does not contain technical provisions and is therefore not notified in accordance with the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. The project does not concern the property rights and obligations of economic operators or the rights and obligations of economic operators vis-à-vis public administrations. It also does not affect the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Law and Justice Club will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u267	Thank you very much. There's no surprise, I'll be honest with you, but nice voice, thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u268	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union aims to implement Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 2018. As a matter of fact, I had the opportunity to act as a deputy before. At the moment when the directive comes into effect, it suddenly turns out that all the rules laid down by the standards can be maintained, which allow the law to be prepared in accordance with the rules, not written on its knee, not introduced in one day - it is simply possible. And these are the criteria that should be recognised, because the law has been properly consulted, well prepared. Of course, we had minor comments, but only legislative ones. Furthermore, what needs to be appreciated is that we are in this corridor on the deadline for the adoption of the Directive, i.e. 2020, taking into account COVID - this must be considered an important, essential issue. Member States must also inform the European Commission in order to assess the proportionality of the requirements that restrict access to and enforcement of regulated professions. A number of grounds have been laid down concerning non-discrimination, the achievement of objectives in the public interest, the designation of those objectives. All these elements referred to in the directive have been included in the draft law. In fact, Member States must have a scope of regulation that concerns state security, particularly in terms of health aspects. But what is to be appreciated in this law, and in fact in the intention of this directive, is that at a time when regulations and restrictions arise from specific professions, all Member States must apply the same comparative methodology. So this is an important element that at a time when the European Commission compares certain professions, it compares them according to the same methodology as was included in the draft law. What is important, of course, it is possible to appeal against any decision, so issues concerning the appeal have also been envisaged - the possibility of appealing to Polish courts, administrative courts or universal courts. But on us, Members, now this directive and this law impose new obligations, de facto force us to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, often to amend the internal laws of the various corporations which have statutory powers to regulate certain professions, because anyone who submits a new bill will have to comply with the same criteria. And one of these criteria is among others. the question of consultation. In view of this, the undoubted advantage of this law is the fact that we will actually take into account all the regimes resulting from the law, especially the elements of the public consultation, the information of all the parties. So in this case, European law - by the way, almost 60% law in Poland is a law which is adopted at European level and comes - it will allow us to keep in fact, the basic legislative procedure and all the rules set out therein. We'll support the relevant bill. I stress once again that this law has been well prepared on the basis of the directive, and that we should be able to work on similar legal acts according to similar schemes. Then it will be easier for us to create a law that responds to the needs of citizens, and it will not be a law created on our knees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u269	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bogusław Wontor, the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, in print Nos 733 and 742. Louder, I can't hear you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is necessary to implement into the Polish legal order for two reasons. Firstly, we must implement it in view of the adopted Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the analysis of proportionality prior to the adoption of new regulations on professions, which complements Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. In accordance with Directive 2018/58, it should cover regulated professions falling within the scope of Directive 2005/36/EC. This Directive obliges Member States to assess the proportionality of requirements which restrict access to or pursuit of regulated professions and to inform the European Commission of the results of that assessment. It can be added that the Member States of the European Union have been obliged to implement it by 30 July 2020. Secondly, the amended law will apply in a non-discriminatory manner, will be justified by public interest objectives, will be appropriate to the requirement to ensure that the objective is achieved and will not go beyond what is necessary to achieve that objective and will consequently include provisions of Polish law defining the forms of qualification necessary for the pursuit of regulated professions or qualification requirements on which the taking up or pursuit of regulated activities depends. High Seym! In the draft law, MEPs and members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left have properly highlighted key issues concerning access to cross-border services, evaluation of draft legislation and evaluation criteria. The Minister responsible for the matter of this law has been appointed. You could say that the bill was properly prepared. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The Secretary of State Włodzimierz Bernacki asked me at my first reading at the committee meeting about the new human and financial resources needed to carry out the new tasks effectively, since the law and the justification for this matter were silent and replied that the new tasks resulting from the bill would be carried out on the basis of the Ministry's staff resources so far and there was no need to use additional resources in this regard. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! As I have presented, Members and Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will support the Government's draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, in print Nos 733 and 742. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u271	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u272	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union aims to implement in the Polish legal order a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the analysis of proportionality prior to the adoption of new regulations on professions. To remind you that the Member States of the European Union have been obliged to implement them by 30 July 2020, but we have these provisions and I will say paradoxically as a representative of the Polish Coalition, from the Polish People's Party, that for us as a pro-entrepreneurial party, regulations are generally not good, but in this case it must be said that they will be useful and good. We are all aware that so far there has been a problem of the lack of common criteria that would be applied by all countries for this purpose, and that from now on, legislative designers will have to - we will have to - assess their compliance with the EU principle of proportionality, but also verify whether they are justified and whether they are non-discriminatory. All procedures have also been regulated to ensure that our rules comply with EU rules, such as the obligation to carry out an assessment of the proposed rules before they enter into force and, which is extremely important, to monitor their compliance during their lifetime. Our club will support the design change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Mr Dariusz Klimczak. You're welcome, sir. Thank you, Marshal. I see you'll surprise yourself. I'm asking myself a question. No, I knew I was first. I know the government has information and interesting statistics, which is why I decided to ask. If it is possible for the Minister to answer today, it is very well, and if not, I ask for a written reply. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about regulated competitions. How many representatives of regulated professions left Poland in 2019 and how does this apply to previous years? What are the noticeable trends from the government's point of view? What competitions did they represent, and what countries did they go to? Conversely, where do specialists, representatives of regulated professions and above all what professions represent come to Poland? And one more thing. In July, it appeared that the European Commission had called on Poland and the Czech Republic before the TSUE on the non-compliance of these regulations. Is there any more of those kind of proceedings that the government knows about? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that we are implementing these directives into the Polish legal order. This will certainly contribute to all these values, freedoms on which all EU citizens care so much throughout the Union, and I am convinced that also Poles and Poles. I've looked over these comments, Minister, after the consultations that you've addressed to 64 actors, and I have a question. How does the Minister feel about preparing the Polish government for monitoring, supervision? Do you expect there to be obstacles here? Do you think everything will be beautiful and smooth? What's your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u275	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki. But you have an easy task, Minister, because everyone praises you, it's rare in this courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've had the office since November 4th, so there's hope for this... And a raise. ...that in the longer term I will deserve an even better assessment from the opposition as well. It's gonna get worse. Minister, you will follow in my footsteps, you will be a mighty man. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Włodzimierz Bernacki: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the very detailed question by Mr Dariusz Klimczak, I would like to send you the full information concerning precisely these figures relating to the transfer, so to speak, those who are engaged in professions regulated from our space into European space, but beyond the borders of Poland. I will certainly obtain this data and you will receive it. On the other hand, as far as the question is concerned, it is such that, in fact, the amendment which has emerged does not refer to the coordinating function, i.e. the function which was set up by the 2015 Act. And this coordinator is your head of department at the Department of Foreign Cooperation, Mrs. Dagmara Dębczak. I hope I didn't twist my name. It is one of the departments of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, and in the future the Ministry of Science and Education will take care of this coordinating party. On the other hand, with regard to monitoring, it is this law that introduces the responsibility and obligation to monitor, translates or imposes them on the competent minister, who sets out the rules required in the regulated profession. So it's all happening in this space that we're already dealing with, so it doesn't call for completely new existences here. On the other hand, as stated here earlier, as Mr Boris said, MEPs, senators, but also members of the Council of Ministers will be required to consult and agree on the content of the legislative act with the principle of proportionality, which is contained in this amendment, it has been specified. First of all, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to thank all Members working in two committees: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development. Indeed, it was a pleasure to work on this amendment. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u277	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dolata, I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata. I understand that the bill is so well prepared that you will please us and will never come in again. Yes, sir. Great. Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the actions taken by the government in preparation for the second wave of the epidemic of Coronavirus, as well as the planned actions and restrictions related to the functioning of health services and the economy during the epidemic, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, President of the Polish... People's Party. ... People's Party. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, dear Vladek, sometimes my mind is flying away for a while. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u278	With your intellect as a marshal, your wit and your ability to drive, there's no problem. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today very important information from the government about the pandemic situation, unfortunately about negligence, because this is how we analyze what happened, and more what didn't happen on vacation, when you didn't fulfill your responsibilities, you did something else. The government sees a lack of strategy, chaotic actions that are more like panic. Whoever speaks louder at the meeting wins. Hospitals are built in panic, we don't have an epidemic strategy. There's a lot going on with the PR government and propaganda. You can't panic, but you can't deny reality because the government is becoming unbelievable. I don't know why we haven't been able to improve the health care system for so many months. Citizens are starting to get scared of it. They refuse to accept referrals for testing because it's taking too long. They're afraid of quarantine. That's why there's less tests. We don't test asymptomatic patients, so we don't know how extensive the pandemic is. We are living in a fictional picture of the epidemic and we are fictitiously taking action. Before you start attacking me, that I'm overreacting, that I'm saying too much, I'm gonna say that those aren't our words. These are the words of a member of the Law and Justice Club, a member of the United Right. This is probably the most credible assessment you can hear from inside, because like the opposition, you can always be upset that this is a political dispute. There's no political dispute here. It is about the health and life of citizens, about saving jobs, about entrepreneurs, about the Polish economy, about our future and the future of our children. That is why we demand reliable information and an end to constant propaganda, PR, and the promotion of the coronavirus. You're telling me how efficient and efficient you are. You are efficient and efficient in blocking extra money for doctors, in preparing holes in shields, in keeping in the freezer laws that can help entrepreneurs, and in lowering statistics. You were extremely efficient in Andrzej Duda's campaign. A few of the data we've prepared on this information. Members of the Council of Ministers attended a minimum of 247 meetings of Andrzej Duda's campaign, namely constitutional ministers, including Deputy Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister in 107. Other members of the government, secretaries and Undersecretaries of State - 257. These are the thousands of hours you've spent promoting Andrzej Duda, not preparing us for a pandemic. You haven't analysed our school opening proposals. You uncritically opened schools because you were hostages of your own words, that everything is back to normal, that the epidemic is already in the defense, that this coronavirus is not really scary. And we had the first two weeks of November. During the first 2.5 weeks of November, more people died of COVID in Poland than for 7 months of pandemic, and the Minister of Health said two days ago that we could smile gently, a little bit. This is ridiculous. If that's what the Minister of Health says, it's a joke about patients, doctors, nurses, all those who are fighting a pandemic. We do not agree to such an approach and such treatment of Poland and citizens of the Republic. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We demand information about the truth about the number of infected people, because today there are not enough tests, tests that are being carried out, as Mr Sosnierz said. Unfortunately, you wait a very long time before the result is shown. You wait even a few days, often passes the quarantine period, and the result is not yet available. We demand answers as to whether you follow the recommendations of the committee set up by the Polish Academy of Sciences at the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences on changing the way of testing to test those who have professional contact with a large group of people. What about matters of private health involvement? What about starting a clinic and ending a teleporad that unfortunately doesn't pass an exam? In some cases, of course, they are acceptable, but in many cases it must be open to treatment of patients with other diseases than COVID-19. What about pre-emptive information for entrepreneurs? They're surprised at your decisions from day to day. So they were surprised by the chrysanthemum producers, so they were surprised by the owners of the shopping galleries and shops that are there, sometimes very small companies. You don't have a dialogue with entrepreneurs, you don't talk, you don't tell. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You exclude further industries, which is why we are asking that in the next anti-COVID shield, the sixth anti-COVID shield be included not in the PKD industry, but the right to receive compensation, so that support is for all companies that have simply lost to pandemics. There are many questions about the economy. Are there gonna be shops open, galleries? Will all Sundays be commercial in December? That's what entrepreneurs are asking for today. These questions about health, entrepreneurship is very much. One thing is certain, PR policy, propaganda policy, not truth, unfortunately has a very sad face. This face is the illness of more patients, there are thousands of people who don't even know they're sick because they can't get into the doctor or be tested. The worst in all of this is these giant increases in daily deaths. Yesterday was a black Wednesday, unfortunately today is a black Thursday. Take care of your work. You are responsible for this before the law, from the High House, but above all from the compatriots who have entrusted you with government control. You don't take the responsibilities exam today, you don't take the hard work exam, you don't take the decency exam. It's a serious accusation, but it's got to go to hell for you to come to your senses. This is about health, life, Poland and its future. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr President. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Waldemar Kraska. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the vote will be at noon. 21. We already know more. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am a senator, we take a little longer than in the Sejm, but I will try to tell you in just a few minutes what moment we are at this moment and what we have done, because the President is accusing us that we have done nothing, which, of course, is not true. Our strategy is indeed different from the spring strategy, because we knew that there would be much more new infections. And that's what happened. In the spring we had a bed base based on single-name hospitals, and that was enough, that worked out. But we knew that autumn... You're also a doctor, and you know there's always more infections. The usual flu, ordinary colds, also Coronavirus is much more in the autumn. Therefore, our strategy has already been based entirely on other foundations, on other foundations. In this strategy we included practically the entire Polish health service by creating a bed base based on the division of hospitals into the so-called. Three levels, level one, level two, and level three. In addition, we have also engaged private actors. Private entities now declare more than 2 000. places in their hospitals for patients with COVID-19. We are also organizing temporary hospitals at the moment, because we know that the epidemic is unpredictable and we may unfortunately miss places. These hospitals are built by voivodships, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Treasury. You said our patients had nowhere to treat themselves. As for beds that are prepared for patients with COVID-19, a month ago, on October 17, these places were 15 166, yesterday was 37 348. We have a security buffer right now, that's over 11,000. free seats for patients with COVID-19. As far as ventilators are concerned, a month ago we had them available to patients with COVID 1131, currently we have 2888. We have 808 free ventilators. At the moment, they are involved in the fight against COVID at level one 422 hospitals. At level two, we have 485 of them, and at level three, 27. Also at the moment, 20 temporary hospitals are being built by voivodships, as well as one hospital by MON and MSWiA. I'm not gonna name where these hospitals are gonna be. It's gonna be big cities, big clusters, where we've got a lot of infections. We also have the insulatorium available at the moment. That's 101 objects, that's over 11,000. free seats. These are all places waiting for Polish patients. I hope they don't have to be used. So right now, in the media, you're saying patients don't have oxygen. We know that in the case of coronavirus infection oxygen is the primary drug that we should provide. Therefore, with regard to those hospitals that do not have a central oxygen system at the moment, we have launched a system that allows them to transport oxygen in the form of a cylinder. There are also reserves of oxygen cylinders in any voivodship at the moment, in case oxygen may run out of oxygen in this hospital. You're talking about testing, Mr President. The tests are commissioned by doctors, hospital emergency services doctors, emergency rooms doctors, POZ doctors. It's the doctor who decides whether or not the patient is to be tested. In addition to genetic tests, which are currently used in mass use, almost 1 million antigen tests are distributed in Poland today. These are second-generation tests, tests that are comparable to genetic tests. They will be available at the emergency rooms and hospital emergency units, but also in ambulances. Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, sir, but you've left Minister Small Man 30 seconds. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Okay, maybe in the next part. But do you think he should still talk or not? Please. I don't think so. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Ladies and gentlemen, antigen tests are already available. Their speed is 15 minutes. It will definitely simplify us right now... We're talking about availability and speed of testing. Also, as far as medical staff is concerned, we have allowed many professions to work, i.e. doctors who have lost their right to work because they work [[♪ The bell ♪]] many months out of the system. So are the nurses. The medical exams are also being postponed at the moment. When it comes to specialization exams, there is only a written part, there is no oral part. We're really doing everything we can to get Polish health care right now. Not only did she have beds and equipment, but she also had medical personnel that could be available and treat our patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u281	Thank you very much. I've arranged with Minister Niepozak to have his five minutes literally and metaphorically when we finish this topic. I'm opening a discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin with the questions, but... Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I was waiting for it to show up. It showed up. Hello, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u282	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr President, when he presented the current information, he said a few very important things too. The first thing that was at the end. It seems to me, and it's not just me, it's the most important thing. It's about health and life, it's about the future. But the second important thing you said earlier was that propaganda policy has a very bad impact, which is why I'm going to refer to your information. If you are aware that this is the case, then why are you just doing propaganda? Why don't we stand together, together, to fight what has affected Poland, and not just Poland, because basically the whole world? Have many of you, like our fellow Members, come to the DPS and other places to help? You're a doctor yourself, and you'd need that help, too, you need it. I know what happens in my hospital, for example, when doctors get sick. It doesn't just affect patients with COVID, these patients. After all, we also have sick people who have been sick, who are sick, and unfortunately they are often so sick that they will be sick, there are car accidents. It's all back. And doctors, doctors, help is needed. Dear Minister, Mr President asked mainly for tests. The tests don't cure. But we have good information - information that gives us hope. I mean vaccines, maybe four suggestions for vaccines from different places, that they already have the effectiveness that they have little side effects. However, studies with vaccines usually last much longer. Here after a year, less than a year, we find out there's a chance. And that would be a great opportunity, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of the economy, because, as the President said, it is about health, life, but also about the future. This lockdown, which we applied at the beginning, is now, to some extent, bothering everyone, and not only in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if they also apply restrictions abroad, they are primarily holding the market for their citizens, because each country should take care of its own, so it will touch us too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u283	Thank you very much. I'm giving you the lead to Marshal Zgorzelski. I'm gonna take another look at the chair, see if it's okay, 'cause I sat tight or if it didn't crash. I've had a situation like this lately... A lot of strength. ...that this morning I find out that I did something wrong. But it's okay, Marshal. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] I hope everything ends well. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Szramka, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are often dealing with a mess of information. At first, the Ministry of Health claimed that masks were not needed for healthy people. As we can see in the accompanying picture, however, she changed her mind. One time Prime Minister Morawiecki had already called off the pandemic, said that it was harmless, that it was in reverse. As we can see, he was wrong about that, too. There were also cases that what he was talking about at the conferences was slightly different from what we could read later in the regulations. At this meeting Prime Minister Kaczyński said that the opposition has blood on its hands because it brings people out on the streets. But from the Ministry of Health, we hear that the protests didn't cause a greater wave of infection. When will you take care of a reliable and coherent information policy, Minister? Very often you complain about fake news, and as we can see, I think you make the most of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u285	Thank you very much. I now ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you about two areas, although these neglected areas, are not prepared really a lot, among others. Hospitality and health inspection. Because of the fact that you didn't prepare COVID hospitals, the field hospitals, whatever we call them, at some point you forced county hospitals to create a sudden organization of infectious wards. Because of this, they have actually abandoned the implementation of the calendar of planned admissions, and some have been practically completely turned into single name hospitals. As a result, residents of these districts were deprived of hospital care. This is the case, among other things. in Słupca and in Środa Wielkopolska in my district. And today, the people protest, they don't agree to such decisions, because they're afraid that if they get a heart attack, a stroke or an emergency, they won't be able to get medical attention in time. So the question is, when are the county hospitals gonna stop working in the E.R. only and when are you gonna bring back the scheduled party calendar? It's extremely important. I can't imagine this calendar not being restored by spring, and it could take so long for a second wave. The second thing is the health inspection staff who report an extremely urgent need to increase the number of posts, supplement the vacancies and report that they have a huge backlog of both epidemiological interviews and the introduction of data into the system. This makes these epidemic statistics completely detached from reality, which has already been tried to prove to you by a young senior, counting the really available statistics, except for those that have not been introduced into the system at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When's the health check gonna get better? Unfortunately, this unpreparedness gives rise to internal conflicts, and the release of heads of epidemiological units is not a solution here, Minister, but only for this mechanism today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u287	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u288	Thank you very much. There is also the possibility to ask a question, even how you are an applicant, and these questions we just have a lot of. The Minister - because he is a representative of the Minister of Health - referred only to the health issue. Our question, our government information has two parts: health, but also the economy. We are counting on the Minister in the second part, for specific answers. Because there were a lot of specific issues in that question we asked. Two sentences of thanks to Mrs Bartus. Thank you very much for appreciating and for agreeing with me that health, life, the future are the most important. She also asked the question: Why are we not working together? We wanted to work together. Now a few words about the cooperation we have offered to the Prime Minister. When the pandemic broke out, I attended all meetings at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the National Security Bureau of President Andrzej Duda. Our experts participated in all meetings with ministers and vice-ministers on anti-crisis shields. But what happened? On the occasion of the first crisis shield at hours. At 2 a.m. there was an outcast: the liquidation of the Social Dialogue Council and correspondence elections, and none of our amendments passed. We went again. Despite the disappointment that the Prime Minister did, what you did as rulers, we went to another meeting. We have proposed the involvement of private health care and paying not out of the patient's pocket, but with the NFZ for the treatment of diseases other than COVID-19 as part of a private, clean, non-participative part in the treatment of COVID-19 health services. We made a proposal to make all Sundays legally commercial during the epidemic so that there would be no trade ban on Sundays. Because this is a chance for small shops, for cafes that are located in different places, sometimes in shopping malls. There's no answer to that. We've sent our experts to meet with the Prime Minister. Neither have they received many questions, nor have they been involved. We've reached out many times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On your part, there was only PR and propaganda, talking about cooperation, but not realising this cooperation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u289	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u290	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Pandemic is one of the greatest tragedies of modern times and requires joint action from us. These joint actions should be aimed at saving the lives and health of the people of our country. That is why I am surprised to see the position of the President, who says that we do not pass the exam of decency. This decency should be represented by all parties. This country hasn't done anything for eight years to increase the number of medical personnel that are currently missing. We've been able to do 20 grand in five years. increase the number of doctors by 15 thousand. - number of nurses. We were able to raise our wages. That's what keeps nurses and doctors from leaving our country. So I ask you not to say that we lack decency. If this had been done earlier, today the situation would have been completely different. But thanks to the actions of Law and Justice and the United Right, despite these great problems, we are trying to run our country better than many other countries that are struggling with pandemics. Take a look at indicators such as Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy and Spain. In countries that have spent much more money on health care, indicators are much worse than in our country. We have prepared a strategy through the summer vacation, sir. We have prepared a new strategy for the fight against COVID, we have prepared a new test strategy, we have prepared new hospitals that are now fully passing the test. All this makes Poles count on help. Of course, there are very difficult situations due to the increased incidence of COVID, and there is also a greater need for hospitalization. But these patients' seats are being secured. Each voivode according to your needs [[♪ The bell ♪]] indicates the right number of places in hospitals so that each Pole can feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u292	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Minister hasn't gotten rid of those qualities yet. We asked for less propaganda, really. We're asking each other. Nice to meet you, too. I'm about to ask you about the things you could have done. Well, Minister, exactly on April 21st, in the Lublin Clinic of Infectious Diseases Directed - successfully, let's add - by Professor Tomasiewicz the first plasma therapy was conducted in Poland in a patient with severe symptoms of COVID-19. On April 21, the plasma of the healer was given, which was obtained at the regional blood center, and Mrs. Puacz was the director there, very active. The eyes of the healers contain antibodies that neutralise and destroy Coronavirus and thus block further virus reproduction. The effects of such therapy are instant. I remind you, it was April. It has been over six months, your months, our months, our Polish months. The possibility of increasing the incidence in the autumn was said in the spring. And the blood service today feels surprised. I therefore have a series of questions, Minister. Of course, I probably won't be able to ask everyone. I would be happy to share these questions in writing with you. I hope you're the only one who wants to answer that question, and it's best if you do something about it. I have such questions. Has a nationwide plan for increased plasma intake from health care professionals been developed? Have clear guidelines for plasma therapy been developed that require physicians to include or exclude patients from this therapy? Are clear criteria for failure to take plasma? Asking for more plasma. Has guidance been issued on the testing of multiple donors for anti-COVID antibodies? Have procedures been developed to retrain a donor's plasma from a normal donation to a healthy one? Is there a sufficient number of separators - because we hear that they are missing - in the field departments, in the regional centers? Has an appropriate number of plasma inactivation kits been purchased? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the IT systems? Because today it's operated manually and the queues are huge. You're not appealing to the healers for surrender, just get the centers ready to download. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna April, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As the Minister said earlier from this speaker, the epidemic is a unique time, unique and extremely difficult. It's a huge test for society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall how at the beginning of the previous term there were criticisms of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, from whom the Territorial Defence Army was founded. I wanted to ask you about the cooperation between the territorial defence forces and the military in the fight against the epidemic today, because there is a great deal of involvement of this army in the creation of smearing points. I also know that during the summer spring, on the initiative of the Minister of National Defence, soldiers were trained in first aid and in the collection of swabs. I would like to ask the Minister if he has such information, how many soldiers have been trained in this area. Another thing I would like to ask you is the question of training nurses in anesthesiology and intensive care. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland for more than 200,000. Professional nurses - more specifically, I think we have 226,000. Nurse's ladies - 34,000. qualified in anesthesiology and intensive care. This is a huge value in a situation where the most serious cases go to the ICU. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, is it true that this is one of the highest indicators in Europe, i.e. do we have the most trained women in this area among all active nurses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u295	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u296	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! When Prime Minister Morawiecki announces the success of scientists who have invented a vaccine for Coronavirus - which, of course, is not yet on the market, but has already distributed it, he is already looking for cold stores and buying them - I would like to remind you that there are still millions of flu vaccines in pharmacies. Seniors are looking for them first of all. I'm looking for me, too, going in, asking, and I keep hearing, "There isn't. Maybe they will. There were three. There isn't. The Minister of Health talks about the stabilisation of the second phase of the pandemic and boasts of an empty national hospital that actually accepts asymptomatic patients. At the same time, the Lower Silesian voivode destroys the well-developed process of collecting swabs in the direction of Coronavirus. An example of the Kłodzki district, Minister. The tasks have been delegated to the Territorial Defence Forces. Do you, Minister, know that today patients expect more than 10 days to take a swab? When the ZOZ ambulance in Kłodzek was doing it, supervised by the Kłodzko governor, they were expecting a day, now - 10 days. Do you know what these patients do then, Minister? With the symptoms of Coronavirus, mostly sick, they go to the hospital coronabus and standing in the rain, in long queues, expect a swab to be taken from them. They're in cars. Therefore, I would like to ask - I think you will answer me in writing, not here, because these are quite detailed data - how many tests are carried out in the area of the Kłodzkie district daily by the WOT and what is the waiting time for a swab in the case of a mobile ambulance. Finally, I want to ask you when doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab diagnes and all those who fight the coronavirus on the front line, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will be given a vote in Parliament signed by the President on the salary allowances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u298	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At first, a little comment on the statement made by Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko. I take it from her that you share the opinion of Marshal Terletki, who said that Polish health care is considered the best in Europe. If that is the case, I suggest that you share this opinion with Poles, especially those from Tarnobrzeg, who, in order to get a prescription, had to hit the windowsill with a stick. They'd be happy to hear your opinion. Yes, doctors, nurses, paramedics are the best in Europe, but not the system you've created that you can't improve. At the hospital in Józefów... Today's biggest problem is access to the doctor. Teleports must disappear, no one wants to use them. They may be used on request in order to extend the prescription or on any other matter. But on request. People quit, go to a private office and give away their hard-earned money there. You should refund your visit. When I can't access the public health system, the NFZ should pay me for this visit. I know the Ministry took the first step with COVID patients. Just take the second step. That's the field we can work on. We can even write a bill together. That would be something. The Poles really demand it. Second thing: the health department. I can't believe you guys aren't working on a change in health care. They're necessary. I hope that today the Minister will say at least two sentences on this subject. The same is true when it comes to strengthening the position of health care professionals. This professional group is most often with people from the very beginning, from coming to the hospital to leaving the hospital. Unfortunately, it is often also that as the only ones to the last moments of this patient. Their position needs to be strengthened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a lot of questions. I'd be grateful for your response to the ones I presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u299	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first I wanted to thank the Ministry of Health and all ministers who worked to take care of the health of Poles and Poles and to save the economy. In the spring we woke up in a new reality that the whole world is struggling with. There are many very valuable initiatives from the Ministry of Health carried out so that Poles do not suffer health consequences. They were carried out in a perfect manner. Of course people are only wrong when they're working. I would appeal to our opponents to use less politics and more merology. I wanted to remind you -- now there's such a plarum about health care -- that the citizens' platform was shutting down. The health department in Tarnogór County has been eliminated. And now that there were problems, the health care workers were working almost 24 hours a day. For this I wanted to thank the Ministry and ask them to examine whether it would be worthwhile to return to the fact that in all the counties of the world there would be health resorts. Now is the time for verification, for discussion. Minister, a great bow towards the hard work you and all your crew are doing to make the Poles feel safe. I know you can criticize, but, ladies and gentlemen, health is not political. I appeal: the opposition, please cooperate, do not disturb, do not organize various kinds of marches that only increase the increase in morbidity. What's been going on in the last four weeks was unforgivable. Together, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, let us take care of the health of all Poles and Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u301	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Czesław Mrocek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u302	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our country is facing a great threat in the form of a pandemic of Coronavirus. The number of infected and fatal victims is increasing dramatically. Unfortunately, the health system was not prepared for an autumn wave of infections. There are growing difficulties in accessing hospital treatment. Sick people sometimes travel from hospital to hospital for hours in search of a place to stay. There is an urgent need to increase the number of hospital facilities by setting up temporary hospitals. Unfortunately, the government has been criminally neglecting its responsibilities in this regard. It was not until October that temporary hospitals were created in the face of a great wave of infections. Meanwhile, in Poland a temporary hospital base is planned and maintained, over 900 temporary hospitals. These plans are updated annually. I haven't heard any of these hospitals run. That's what they're called. hospital replacement teams. Today I ask the question: Why are the voivodeships transforming the county hospitals in the face of a terrible lack of places and the impossibility of saving patients infected with COVID, condemning other patients to lack of help and not launching this great hospital base in Poland, over 900 temporary hospitals, hospital replacement teams? And a word about the army. The army was launched to search for hidden places in hospitals, according to ministers Niedzielski and Błaszczak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The military should build hospital facilities, that is the main ability of the army from the point of view of health care, not to look for what it has not lost. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u303	Thank you very much for your statement. Now I ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u304	Thank you very much, Marshal. Gentlemen of Ministers! Maybe I'll ask you what the entrepreneurs are asking for first. It goes on for example. about the restaurant industry, but not only, also the unions. Question: "Is it envisaged to renegotiate the current operating conditions of the various industries and, if so, to say, opening up or minimum opening, so that these industries simply do not die?" Does the Ministry anticipate this? I'm directing this to the Vice Minister. On the other hand, I would like to thank the Minister. By the way, it's short notice. It's hard to answer. We do not claim that everything is wrong, that everything that has been done is wrong, e.g. The decision to involve POZs in this activity was the best decision we could expect, and at the moment we would expect POZs to... We demanded it ourselves. ...have largely given up telephone advice to open up to patients because patients expect it. The second thing I wanted to say is that the county hospitals were included in the COVID system, but from the day they were incorporated into the system and opened their COVID units, Minister, cleaning prices increased from day to day by 50%, prices for hospital waste - two or even three times. A specific range of waste is involved and is linked to a specific procedure. Something would have to be done about it, because hospitals just can't stand the stakes. I would therefore like to ask - this is a question from doctors - whether the Minister can confirm or deny that, for example. National hospital for hospitalization receives more than PLN 1000 per patient, and ordinary hospital - 330 or 360, lump sum for readiness - 822 in the so-called. National hospital, PLN 100 - in a regular hospital, bed with access to a ventilator - 3700, in a regular hospital - 200. So that's the question: Is it real? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the doctors are asking, I'd like some dementia here. And one last thing. Did we use European money to buy plasmapheresis devices, to separate the corner, as the Polish blood centers, because such a contract, such a query was written for the European Union's member states? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u305	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice, will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u306	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The question that is particularly important in the case of the outbreak of Coronavirus, which is why when I came to the plenary room, I hoped it would be substantive. Well, unfortunately, I'm disappointed again. There have been statements by representatives of the opposition with a planned thesis. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, it is a joy that, eight months after the outbreak, I am thinking of this first wave - the opposition Members express their interest in health and economic protection, especially if they voted against the crisis shield and the financial shield in the first wave of the epidemic. I listen to the opposition Members today who say, "How come we don't have a vaccine for Coronavirus yet, and you're already distributing it, and you're already making plans? Well, yes, ladies and gentlemen, because that's what the government's responsible work and the prime minister's responsible work is to do some things in advance. If we do this, you say it's too early, and on the other hand, as we prepare temporary hospitals and COVID beds for patients, then I hear from the opposition Members: Yeah, but they shouldn't stand empty. So think about it, because they should be standing empty right now. They shouldn't. No, because county doesn't work. We prepare, we secure the beds for it, so if necessary, when they are needed, they simply make it safe. And you say, "Well, they can't stand empty." Minister, we're talking about vaccines here. It's a very important subject. We're glad there are companies that say their vaccines have 90%. , and even over 94% effectiveness. And we really want as many Poles as possible to decide for vaccination. But we also have a group of Poles who do not want to get vaccinated because they are afraid of these vaccinations, and they are afraid that these vaccinations will be mandatory, even though Prime Minister Morawiecki assured that Poles will not be forced to do so (the bell), even though the Minister of Health spoke about it. Please, Minister, once again, tell us what it will look like, what security we have, and whether the Poles can actually be calm that it will not be compulsory vaccinations. Although I hope that as many people as possible will be able to convince them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus, we have been faced with the dramatic inability of the current government and a complete lack of strategy. At the beginning, in March, a decision was made on a virtually complete lockdown, which had a very serious economic impact. Later, for purely political and purely electoral reasons, the state decided to experiment on Poles and introduced the so-called. The Swedish model, where we were supposed to achieve stud resistance, because you've introduced loosening, you've eliminated all the sharpening... There was nothing like that. ...whatever they were, and no one even informed the Poles about it. The measure of government failure to prepare for this pandemic is that many doctors and many hospitals are asking for support, such as candy bars, cleanliness measures. We help and Poles help, try to be solidarity. On the other hand, I have three specific questions. Every day, the Ministry of Health publishes information on how many people died as a result of Coronavirus. In general, we have a very rapid dramatic increase in mortality. How will the Ministry explain such a dramatic increase in mortality in these months compared to last year? That's one thing. Secondly, are you going to introduce a strategy to increase the number of tests, because you know perfectly well that the detected cases of coronavirus infection are much less than real cases, because many people are asymptomatic? If we knew that more people had been infected with the coronavirus, we could also take plasma from these people, which is particularly important. Third question. In Poznań there was information about a very difficult situation in the hospital. Józef Strussia at ul. Swiss, which results from dramatic staff shortages and is characteristic for most hospitals. Those problems can be solved through, among others. the aid proposed in the COVID Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards support for medical practitioners, which was also signed by the President and not yet published by the Prime Minister. When will this bill be published, which will solve many of these problems? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u309	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u310	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, health and the economy are two of the most important topics. And I have a question about the economy and business. Many small entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises, benefited from the aid provided by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, but also by the Marshal's offices under the Rural Development Programme and there were declared posts in the event of the creation or development of these enterprises. These posts must be maintained respectively 2 or 3 years after the payment of the second tranche, the last tranche of payment. And COVID came. The July Act allows you to annex the contract to reduce these jobs because you know that these workers have nothing to do, there are no employees on the market today... What do you mean, it's gone? ...for many reasons. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture was to prepare such an annex. Time runs, since July the model of the annex has not appeared, the marshal's offices have not received such a pattern. I understand that the merry-go-round is running, one minister in the Ministry of Agriculture reports on another, then blames the previous one, but the entrepreneurs are waiting for this pattern and waiting for the money that they may have to pay back in a moment, because if they don't annex the contract, your services will be clearing it up in a minute. More action, less politics. Stop this merry-go-round because it won't be clear which minister is still a minister and who isn't anymore. Even when the staff prepare the letter, they check whether or not they are to send it to the minister by noon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u311	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Krzysztof July, Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Health and the economy - it certainly brings us all together in this House, but these are just words. In fact, when we move on to concrete actions, we will see that some are taking very serious challenges and others are just trying to criticize the rulers and give nothing in return. I appeal to the representatives of the opposition - do not capitalize politically on this disaster, which has affected not only Poland, but actually the whole world. Remember that all of us, regardless of what side of the political scene we sit on, our voters look at our hands and see that in Poland it is not like in the West of Europe, where people who died as a result of COVID were taking trucks to cemeteries. In Poland it is not the same as in the West, where doctors had to decide who to disconnect the ventilator, in Poland it is not so that the loss in national income... unemployment caused by the coronavirus is not as drastic as in the West, on the contrary, Poland is placed as a model. I ask the honourable opposition to appreciate it. Today in Poland there are 40% free beds for patients with COVID, today in Poland is 28% free ventilators. In Poland 300 billion zlotys have been spent since the beginning of this disaster, which is the pandemic of Coronavirus, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which PLN 150 billion as part of the crisis shield and financial shield of PFR to save 6 million jobs. So please, support the Polish government, help the Polish government, and don't put a lock on it, because the Polish society sees it and evaluates it after the fruits. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u313	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Maciej Chase, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You can do a lot of dirty things, but unfortunately, you can't manage. You love the word "national," but the first thing you can think of is lockdown. A medium-sized company or non-governmental organisation builds a strategy for its development and manages risk and crisis. You could learn a lot from such a company, but unfortunately you haven't done your homework. Managing your country is like flying an airplane by a person who doesn't even have a Kat driver's license. B. Almost 60% Poles misjudge the government's preparation to fight the second wave of coronavirus. Positive assessments only give the government less than 19%. Why? Chaos and permanent fire suppression. You couldn't plan before the second wave of illness to buy a flu vaccine or train extra people to operate ventilators. Hospitals don't have personnel, lack of oxygen, ambulances drive all over the voivodship with no one to hand over the patients. In overcrowded county hospitals, patients wait all day for a party at the S.O.R. During this time, the national hospital shines empty. Therefore, I would like to ask the following questions: Has the government prepared a risk management plan for the second wave of Coronavirus, and if so, when? Have pandemic strategies taken into account the construction of container temporary hospitals and, if so, when it was decided to build them when it started, what is the expected number of beds in these hospitals and how many of them were put into service? Which was the reason for stopping the construction of a container hospital at the Military Medical Institute at ul. The Shasers in Warsaw? Last question: What costs were incurred during the construction of the temporary hospital in the center of Expo XXI in Warsaw Wola and what was the state of progress of the construction before the decision was made to transfer the hospital to hangar 1. Transport Air Base in Warsaw Okęcie? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. Now please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u316	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm gonna start with how things are actually going. I'm not gonna give an opinion here, I'm just gonna use two very meaningful numbers. Poland - we are talking about last week - is located in the top ten countries with the largest number of diseases not in Europe, but in the world. We're in the top ten countries with the highest incidence. But in the ninth ten, as far as the number of tests is concerned, it's very dangerous. And this is not, sir, July, putting a stick in the spokes, it is information that should be a red light for you. Minister! A few questions. What is the health department planning to do to increase the research system? Because you know exactly what the consequences are today. People, with weekly waiting for tests, just don't do them, get sick, keep infecting them. Or, for example, Do you consider a solution proposed by entrepreneurs, which is aid for voluntary tests for employees in a given company? I think it's worth considering. Do what? Why are there shortages of Remdesivir today? Shortages are common. An example of the hospital called them today. Ostrich in Poznań, who begs the Ministry, because there are sometimes only 100 doses of this medicine. And the fourth question. I'm asking for statistics on how many beds there's one doctor in the COVID wards today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u317	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! No one will know how you taste until you're broken. [[Applause]] I think everyone sitting in the courtroom has already learned that a pandemic is no one's idea. Even all those anti-mastics who showed their attitude that there is no coronavirus, they've already found that out. And I have a non-political question. Almost a month and a half ago, I had a COVID-19 test. I had a positive result because I had contact with a sick person. Sensitively completely, but I had to be quarantined first, then isolated. I took a late antibody test that I don't have. So I have a question because I've been reading a little bit about it: what's it like with these tests and the erases in the case of coronavirus? To what extent Are they sure about their results? From a further series of studies, however, I did not have coronavirus, although I had a positive result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u319	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to draw attention to a significant increase in the number of deaths in Poland. In the period from late August to 1 November, the year-to-year difference amounted to 16 thousand. deaths, of which over 3,000, 3.5,000. was associated with Coronavirus. That's $12,000. Deaths are deaths, hidden victims of the epidemic. This early, too rapid mortality affects people in particular 70+, seniors. Hence my question: Do you dedicate a special protection program to seniors so that they can have access to a doctor in the days of Coronavirus? These teleports or access via modern means of communication are often difficult for them, because they do not have a phone because they do not have the Internet, do not use it, they are afraid to leave the house. You said it yourself: stay home. They took it very seriously. Do you have a special program dedicated to the DPS, however, where there are very often outbreaks of disease? Hospitals are overcrowded. You are talking about extra free beds, while these beds are created at the expense of beds in normal county hospitals. Patients complain about lack of availability, ambulances stand in line, SORs are overcrowded. The epidemic isn't new. Maybe its scale is a surprise to you now, but hospitals still lack equipment, lack oxygen, lack oxygen distributors, even lack FFP2 or FFP3 masks. That's a big problem. Do you monitor these deficiencies in hospitals? Once again, as at the beginning of the pandemic, people must gather and go to hospitals to deliver the things they simply need. It's a question of vaccines. I would like to ask if, if there is already our dream vaccine, what will be the support system, especially for medical groups, for the elderly. Can people with disabilities also count on the first order when it comes to vaccinations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u322	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! First theme. You say you support the economy so much. I'll give you a concrete example. This month you want to take out 201 shipbuilders in Świnoujście. Please intervene. I ask you to stop the sale of land and stop these workers from losing their jobs. They have 120 km each day to commute to work. That's your proposal. This is the proposal of the State Treasury in times of crisis and economics for ship repairs. You're destroying the shipbuilding industry by saying you're going to rebuild it. Second theme. Ladies and gentlemen, before us December, one of the most important periods for trade, for business. I expect a clear answer from the Minister of Health, what strategy the Ministry will possibly have when it will be decided to open it in accordance with the project submitted by the Coalition of Poland in respect of all Sundays. On the other hand, there is also a question about the economy, how and what we would open up in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Another topic is related to the so-called issue. Healers, and at the same time honorary blood donors. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we have forgotten these people for many years or have underestimated them in insufficient ways. These people often have several dozen kilometers to the nearest place where they can give blood. It used to be different, Minister, they can't do it today. And the question is: Can those who share plasma today rely directly on the reimbursement of travel costs, Minister, if that is the case with honorary blood donors, and on a day off from work if they are working at this point in time? I would very much ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice will speak remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u324	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Until a few weeks ago, we had districts marked with green, yellow, and some red. Today it seems that we are passing the peak point of the second wave of Coronavirus, as may be shown by a slight inhibition of the rapid increase in disease, although I am saying this with ample caution. I think that as of today, measures such as maintaining social distance, self-discipline, wearing masks and disinfection are an effective means to combat pandemics. But there is no lack of opinion that, if not the third wave, it is yet another wave of the outbreak of Coronavirus. Therefore, I would like to ask whether it is clear what extent of illness we may have to deal with in the future and whether the previous methods will be sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u325	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've had a few questions prepared, but I think I'll limit myself to one. I'm sorry, but I was in such a hurry. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. We are witnessing an incredible monetary policy in the health sector. The National Health Fund has announced how it will cover the medical costs of a patient with COVID-19. It turns out that the differences between the different places to which the patient will go are primarily monetary and reach even several hundred zlotys for individual institutions. This is a manifest abuse. How else can one call it that a temporary hospital at the National Stadium will receive a refund from the National Health Fund of over PLN 1000 per night of the stay of one patient, while a patient with the same condition treated in a stationary facility was only valued at PLN 330? If your condition worsens and your sats fall below 95%, then the fund will pay PLN 630 for this patient. Still different is the treatment in private hospitals, where the national fund will pay 500 PLN. It is hard to resist the impression that a temporary hospital at the National Stadium is an outstanding facility for treating the most ill, requiring expensive medications and specialized procedures. Surprise again: in this hospital, only the most ill, independent, not requiring intensive oxygen therapy, not to mention ventilators will be treated. I'm asking questions about that. On what basis was the cost of the treatment of a patient with COVID assessed, which makes the bill take into account such a large distinction between a temporary hospital and a fixed facility? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a situation such a high valuation of the benefit, as the Minister of Health explains the recent reduction of this valuation from PLN 530 to PLN 330 in fixed hospitals and does the Ministry of Health intend to reduce the difference in the valuation of the same benefits in different medical facilities? If so, when will that be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u327	Thank you very much. Is Mrs Anna Paluch in the room? Since there is no such thing as speaking and asking Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u328	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I thought you'd start today by apologizing, apologizing to the Poles for not being able to control what is required of you. I thought you were going to apologize to the Poles for ambulances that run all over Poland, standing for hours they can't accept hospitals. I thought you'd start with that. The human thing is, there's something you can't do. This can be improved, and I thought that would be the tone of your speech. To tell you the truth, I'm not even surprised today that you said that MON is building one hospital and that you can't identify it. I don't blame you, sir, since the Minister of National Defence is already building one temporary hospital in four places. He began in the spring, then changed his location and stopped construction in July when the Prime Minister said that the pandemic had subsided. Started in the next place, in the Expo building. When it turned out that the hospital was to be given within 10 days, he announced: no, we do not build there, in 10 days we start construction in a new place. And we don't really know where the MON hospital is. Let me tell you, last week, I was at the Council of the City of Rydultowy. That's where the county hospital has two headquarters. One building is in Wodzisław and the other is in Rydultów. The Voivodeship has incorporated these county hospitals into the system. Due to the lack of staff, one building in Rydultów closed and opened COVID places in the hospital in Wodzisław. Big outrageous citizens protest, stating: we have a hospital, we have a base. What's not there? There's just no doctors. The Prime Minister and the State promised to infiltrate Western doctors. Today I ask you: When this health care, these doctors, these nurses from non-EU countries [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they go to Poland? Directors ask why nurses with secondary education from countries outside the European Union cannot work in their hospital. Voivodeships receive information from the elders that they have buildings in hospitals that are not open today, that they can use this base. How many such buildings, Minister, have you used to run COVID substitute hospitals there? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u329	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are approaching the end of the regular time for asking questions, but in order to enable all of you to ask such questions, I propose that we reduce the question time to 1.5 minutes, and then we can all fit in. Do we agree? Yes. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Pamula, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Never is it that man, doing good to another, but he himself is a benefactor. It is given at the same time, given to what the other one accepts with love. John Paul II. I think the point is that the words of the person we've all been with in this room we've all been living with, the teaching we know, listen to and accept. Thank you to all those who keep quiet in the halls cleaning, cleaning, washing, feeding, all the ladies and gentlemen, the quiet and calm ones, for this service. The first twenty is Social Worker's Day. I would also like to thank all those who take care of different people in different situations. I would like this gift you are giving to return with even greater strength and power. I would also like to say that it is not true how it sounded in this room that we are waiting for tests of 5 or 6 days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We wait a few hours for tests. Thank you very much and I wish all social workers all the best of their holidays. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u331	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In March, everyone was somehow lost in the fog, so we were giving a large reduction tariff. But since then, it's been nine months and the fact that the pandemic will strike twice in the fall, I think it was pretty clear to everyone. I would therefore like to ask how the government, the various ministries, took advantage of this time. Why no regulations have been issued that would otherwise regulate e.g. children's presence in schools? Why is the same treatment of rural schools where 50 students are taught, and there are seven, ten children in the ward, and great schools with 1,000 students, and 25 in the wards? How have the staff of health care professionals been prepared, those who today are very dedicated, but also tired of doing their work? How Health Care Has Been Prepared not only for the care of the infected coronavirus, but also for those patients who have other diseases, e.g. Oncology? I'm asking about catering, tourism, hotels, fitness clubs. Why such drastic restrictions and prohibitions? I ask about issues related to cultural institutions, theatres, cinemas, housing cooperatives, which run cultural houses. What is the support, what is the point (the bell) of such large restrictions? Ladies and gentlemen, these questions would be a lot, among others. also about issues related to hours for seniors, whether anyone is monitoring the effectiveness of this. On the other hand, we really expect this strategy announced here from the government. Where is she, and in what does she manifest herself? 'Cause if we announce that we're closing the cemeteries the day before All Saints' Day, it looks like It's pretty bad. He asked very much for answers to these questions in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Krupka is present in the Chamber? If not, please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, today's debate was very much needed, because I don't think any of us expected that this government could be so inefficient, and what's more, in some elements, even counterproductive, and that's what we knew both in the area of the economy and in the area of health. As far as the economy is concerned, I don't think it's any different from the ubiquitous chaos, the last-minute decisions, the total lack of logic and the consequences of decision-making. You can even mention such simple areas of activity as, for example, Children's playgrounds - those in shopping malls can work and those located outside shopping malls could not work. Entrepreneurs who invest in life's assets are suddenly shut down completely without foundation. Aid limited in principle to the pre-election period. What's more, trade on Sundays. And the Civic Coalition, and ours. Modern say: free trade on Sundays, give people the opportunity to work. You guys stick to some kind of ideological clue here. Second thing - health care. At first glance, the Material Reserve Agency. A simple example: ventilators. Turns out, for a few months, during the holidays, when there was time, the agency didn't even check if it had the right conditions to run these ventilators. What's the point, and where's the logic? Minister, it's a matter of plasma. Question, please answer in writing: Why can plasma be given in many voivodships only in one city, in the voivodship? Why is it not possible to give away plasma in many places? Second question. I think this is important: Who authorized Prime Minister Morawiecki to announce the end of the epidemic in the month of July? I think we should all know the answer to that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u335	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargocka, the Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u336	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the subject is very topical because the pandemic has not left us and will not leave us for the next few months, and it is certainly always worth raising this topic to look for good solutions. The State of the opposition is calling for dialogue, for your solutions, and from this speaker nothing else is said but: everything is wrong. Everything's wrong, it's not the right thing to do, it's the wrong thing to do, it's the wrong thing to do, it's the tragedy. And that's the political narrative repeated like a mantra that doesn't allow us to build mutual trust to actually talk about solutions. This has been going on for a good six months, this is your narrative and I personally do not see an open field for cooperation. The applicant for today's information said that it was a mistake to send children to schools in September. I absolutely disagree with that. 6 million children and young people in schools have suffered enormous losses due to school closures in the spring. It was a solution that allowed us to stop the development of a pandemic, and for a few, at least 2 months of vacation, to go out to people and (The Bell) to function normally. Today, children are in schools, schools are prepared for remote teaching, we support teachers financially, we support schools with computer equipment, and there are already suggestions on how this year's school exams can be carried out so that young people can pass them successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u337	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u338	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! No wonder Minister Niedzielski isn't with us today. Two days ago, he said we could finally smile, smile a little. Today there were 637 confirmed deaths due to COVID, these are not optimistic data. Ladies and gentlemen! With Mr Ionski on Monday, we submitted a letter to the Ministry of Health on urgent measures to be taken by the Minister for plasma donation. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last two weeks, we've had 150,000. The new healers. But this number of healers in no way translates into the amount of plasma returned. Today, one of the weekly journals, the weekly "Wprost" reported that 250 people had been sacrificed at the regional blood donation center in Warsaw so far. This shows how small the processing powers are in this service. Minister, we need an urgent amendment to the Public Blood Service Act, so that we can also create incentives through... I mean, you could prepare it and bring it back. ...a voucher for health care workers, so that people who are having difficulty accessing the regional centers can receive reimbursement of travel expenses. Madame, you were not disturbed by the way you spoke. The second issue is remdesivir, which cannot be used in first level hospitals. Voivodship consultants appeal to Minister Niedzielski, among others. consultant [[♪ The bell ♪]] voivodship from Mazowsze to allow the purchase of this medicine by hospitals that are involved in the fight against COVID. And last thing, Minister, it's time for you to come in here and explain why you didn't enforce 70 million zlotys from the arms dealer you wanted to buy the ventilators from for seven months. After seven months, you sent the case to the Attorney General. The D.A. works, and you know it, and I know it too - the arms dealer's accounts are empty, and the Treasury is probably not getting back a penny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u339	I now ask Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice, to speak. You're in a terrible way, Mrs. Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The second wave of pandemic hit Europe, Poland, the whole world, causing quite a lot of damage, devastation. Our Polish government is trying to face this phenomenon, among others. such a good move is to increase the number of beds and ventilators. More temporary hospitals are being created throughout Poland. The task of our government is to protect the life and health of Poles. I have a request to the Minister for information on statistics: How many COVID beds and ventilators are available at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u341	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz in the Chamber, so we ask you to speak in the remote mode of Mr Tomasz Latos. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]] [[Welcome. I bow, Marshal.]] [[Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I have listened very carefully to the introductory speech by President Kosiniak-Kamish, and I must say this: we should really draw some conclusions after these months of pandemic. We've talked about this case so many times in the Health Committee, we've talked a dozen times. We've been analyzing the various kinds of actions that are being taken. We have adopted laws, as well as your various proposals. Indeed, in my view, in a situation where no one in the world knows how to proceed, which algorithm of conduct is best, countries are going on different paths, we should absolutely solidarity support each other and support the government of different kinds of actions. It is not only a matter of mutual care to respect this principle of distance-keeping, wearing masks and disinfection, but it is also a matter of proper attitude towards the whole pandemic. Field hospitals are being created. It's all the right thing to do. It's about all kinds of actions. I will remind you of the number of beds that are prepared, the issue of ventilators. That's what's going on, too.]] [[In my opinion (the bell) really needs, and that is what I call for us to be able to talk over divisions on this issue. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Peter Boris in the room. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Rusecka, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u342	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that such a situation as the whole world's, a pandemic, is a subject in which we could work beyond divisions, because it is a threat to life, to the health of our compatriots. But they're false hopes. The opposition, such as Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish's mouth today, still throws at the governing insects about unpreparedness, about chaos. We already know all that. I wanted to ask you if you have any, dear opposition, any program. Of course you don't. And what you're saying is that the former presidential candidate... Take a look at your statement from April, May, when you took off. In the News Guest you said: If there are no doctors, I will stand and work with my colleagues. Mr Budka, you spoke with Mr Budka in the clouars about a great programme from the crisis shield in April. Minister! Please tell me how much money the Polish government has spent on saving jobs. That's almost five million jobs that have been protected. What's our unemployment rate now? One of the lowest in Europe. Look at the scale of unemployment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] GDP decline is worldwide. Really, come to your senses, because it is about the good, health and economic development of our country, not your political capital. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u343	And I ask the Member to be substantive, because I do not want to bring up the statements of other candidates on this issue. Mr. Marshal, please don't review my statement. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. So we have Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u344	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In recent weeks, I have spoken to employees and employees of the Poznań health centre. I heard scary stories there. People work from morning to night, they're under a lot of pressure, they don't have basic equipment, they're out of dozens of jobs. Where 15 people are needed, there are two working at the moment. It's working conditions that are unworthy of those who depend on safety. All of us. These people are exhausted. One day, in front of me, ambulances came to two people who fainted out of nerves and overwork. The government had a few months to prepare health services for the second wave of pandemic. Unfortunately, nothing has been done. Power preferred to take care of itself, not the safety of Poles and Poles. All over Poland health resorts face problems. We're running out of money for basic needs. Workers are not paid overtime, and they must be forced to take time off at such an important time. This crisis is causing deep internal conflicts. In Poznań, the esteemed epidemiologist, Anna Pawłowska, was relieved of her managerial role. Many specialists and specialists lost their jobs in this way. This is how power seeks a scapegoat to distract itself from its own mistakes. It's disgusting. In his name from this pulpit [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much like to thank all the workers and workers of the health centre who work in sweat, sacrificing their personal lives to ensure our safety. You're real heroes and heroes. Last sentence. The government would like to present a detailed action plan for the preparation of sanitary services for the second wave of pandemics. If you don't get to work, the second wave will turn into a tsunami. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Thank you. [[Applause]] You guys come to your senses with these marches.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. I would therefore like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would therefore like to ask for the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u346	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the debate. I am counting on the Minister's response on economic matters. And some facts, my dears, because unfortunately there is much untrue, again from the ruling party. Some figures on the situation with which we got pandemics, the number of hospital beds. First, the number of hospitals. Between 2005 and 2007, when you rule, the number of hospitals is reduced by 33. We come to power, the number of hospitals rises by 208. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The number of hospitals is increasing by 208. Mr. Chairman, wait a minute. Is the Member able to listen calmly to the end of the speech? Is it cultural to interrupt someone? I tried my best when you told me to keep you comfortable. Nobody bothered you like you said. I listened patiently, sometimes even to all sorts of untrue and stupid things. Between 2015 and 2018, the number of hospitals decreased by 7. Number of hospital beds. Ladies and gentlemen, the CUS data. Between 2005 and 2007, the number of beds decreased by 4470. Between 2007 and 2015 the number of beds increased by 11 971. Years 2015 and 2018 - again your governments and again a decrease of 5262 beds. What about the wards and the beds in the infectious and observational-infectious wards? The year 2015, when we surrender power - 3209 beds. Year 2019.2534 beds. And you have the audacity to say that you've prepared us for the epidemic, that everything is fine. Data from yesterday. Poland was fourth in the number of deaths yesterday, second in Europe. Is that something to be satisfied with and to those voices of gratitude? We're not saying everything's wrong. We voted for a lot of things, too. Mr Latos's good voice, it is true, he is able to conduct a dialogue. But also many of our proposals were rejected in advance because they were opposition proposals. Why don't you want to publish a bill that gives money to doctors? Some of you voted for her. Mrs Pamula spoke beautifully, and I agree with the gratitude for all the workers, for the halls, for those who take care of, for various types of staff, sometimes even unnamed, assistants of the elderly, for many technical persons who work in hospitals, in places of assistance. But you don't want to give them a better salary. Yesterday, from the hospital in Moravica, through Mr Jarubas, I received information about the establishment of a trade union with the support staff. They're not in the raises, you don't want to give them our hero's bonus. The same applies to social workers, Mrs Społeczne. Our hero bonus bill in April is covered by doctors, nurses, lab diagnes and health care. There are social workers there who are on the front line. Words of gratitude are important, words can also heal, but words should follow your actions. You're the ones who won the election. We give you all kinds of solutions. You can, and you don't have to use them, but you are responsible for the government today. Andrzej Duda spoke so often about the coronavirus. Although he did not fully believe in the second wave of pandemics on June 6, when he spoke. Then in mid-September he said the epidemic was under control. I don't think he had any insight. He didn't want to say everything, but today he doesn't open a line with hand sanitizer. There's no more of what was in the election campaign. There is no National Security Council, no meetings with ministers, no briefings, no presidential initiatives. He won the election, that's right, but there should be action behind the election victory, not just talking. Unfortunately, this shows that we are at a very difficult time. And it's not true to say that opening schools didn't cause the virus to spread. Largest magazines, medical journals, among others The lancet, they say that schools have just become the site of the virus's spread. It's sad. I wish the schools were open, too, but if they're open, they have to be safe. Minister Niedzielski admitted it himself, so please, Minister, please inform your fellow Members that they will not send fake news later because it is becoming a problem. You blame us for pointing out that we're saying that something's not working, that there was no pandemic plan, that you're acting in chaos. Did you build field hospitals during your summer vacation, or were you campaigning? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You prepared a pandemic plan and showed when the stores would be closed, when other sectors of the economy would be shut down, with what number of diseases? You didn't show, you said there wouldn't be another lockdown. And you didn't prepare. He has become in spite of your spells. It wasn't because of your actions, it was because of your lack of action. I will repeat to you the words of Mr Soszer. This is Mr PiSu, this is not an opposition Member. Do you blame him for paying attention? Hospitals built in panic, we don't have an epidemic strategy. There's a lot going on with the PR government and propaganda. I want cooperation. I think that we would all like a normal cooperation of dialogue, dialogue and agreement, especially on such an important issue. And look at how much trust we had, even the support of the first COVID laws, the support of many of the amendments you tabled in committee work at various times. Is there, on the other hand, an examination of our projects? Is there a lower VAT treatment for gastronomy? Where is the ZUS, which should be voluntary for all entrepreneurs, especially at such a difficult time? We used to say we couldn't do it. Madame, please make it very possible to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! It is our duty to present such projects, it is our duty. If you encourage cooperation and say hypocritically that we don't have a program, that's what I'm showing you, that's our program. You don't want to pursue it. You have the majority, you have the right to it, but don't say it's not true that the opposition doesn't present projects that it doesn't present its own ideas, that it's just from criticism. Yeah, we're from pointing out mistakes. This is the natural role of the opposition in democratic countries, that it shows where the problem lies. Populistic. And we're gonna do this so you can at least draw conclusions. Some things come to you after a while, because at least the sharpenings weren't applied from hour to hour. Now you're a little ahead of it, and it's been a few days. Even after this dialogue with entrepreneurs, the Social Dialogue Council will work effectively... What will social dialogue do? Why didn't you create an anti-crisis shield that would support... Member, should I repeat it again? It's already time. Please do not point out to me that it is on time, because any Member of the Law and Justice can also speak on time. Yes, ma'am. Mr Zgorzelski, not one Member of the PiS, neither did any Member of the opposition interrupt his speech and allowed him to finish. Because we fit in time. The subject is really important. I'm talking calmly, I'm showing you the numbers, I'm showing you the facts, and I'm showing you the proposals. Don't be offended by the truth. She may hurt, but you can't take offense to her. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Dialogue Council has not adopted a resolution between the unions and employers in favour of anti-crisis solutions. These are facts. There was no agreement and no social pact. There is a need for a social pact, a social agreement and a way out of this difficult situation. Nevertheless, I think that the words that can connect us at the end are words of gratitude addressed to all health professionals, social workers, shop workers, public transport workers, various kinds of local authorities. And not for ministers? To all those who have been fighting on the front line since March, in different positions, in different places. Thank you, too, to all those who work hard in the government. Yes. None of us have ever heard such words in our lives, but we are different. Because if someone's doing something right, we'll always appreciate it. I'm sure we have no problem saying the words "thank you," "please" or "sorry." I never have a problem with that. Neither do we. And I won't. Thank you also for this debate, although we do not always agree. I think that this health wish is addressed to everyone, whether he sits on the right side or on the left side of this room, whether you like him better today or a little less. Stay healthy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Mr. Mark Niebłużak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Of course, in this format there is no way that I can relate to everything that has beenfallen in the context of economic problems. They, too, were probably a little less affected than health. But it seems natural to me to have some kind of dialogue with what the applicant said. The Member said that there was no cooperation and that there were no amendments to the PSL in front of the shield. It just so happens that I had the opportunity to work on these shields and I remember very well the PSL amendments we accepted: for example, an amendment clarifying the suspension of hires. So that cooperation was, I remember it well. There was talk of the RDS, about the fact that in the first shield he passed the rule that he had eliminated the RDS. The RDS has even gathered today, the Prime Minister has taken part in these deliberations, and the RDS is acting as much as possible. Today, there were discussions there, among others. on one of the problems that have occurred here in the speeches, i.e. trade issues on Sunday. There is no unanimity in the Social Dialogue Council in this area, but this dialogue is taking place there. Dialogue doesn't mean everyone always agrees. You were also talking about a hole in the shield. I know it's a term that's easy to say, it's such a nice word twist. Nevertheless, how will you look at the measures that... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask that we allow the Minister to answer questions. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: When you look at the measures that flowed to entrepreneurs in spring and late spring, this is an absolutely unprecedented aid since 1989 in Poland. This is probably also why Poland, if it looks at the European Union, has the second best result in terms of GDP this year. Unemployment has not fallen significantly. This is actually primarily due to Polish entrepreneurs [[Applause]] And everyone who works. On the other hand, these aid measures certainly had a share here. The question was what we would do for those industries that are suffering most from the current situation. Let me put it this way: you, ladies and gentlemen, will have the opportunity to vote on a law which, among other things, is envisaged for these sectors. the exemption from the Social Security Office for each employee, provides for funding for posts from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund in the amount of 2 000. PLN per job, provides for a parking benefit, provides for a small grant of 5 000. zł, non-refundable for micro- and small entrepreneurs. So that you have a chance to help them, if you support this parliamentary project, which we also worked together in committee, you can say that also. tonight, because the proceedings lasted for a very long time. I think we've all managed to work there in a good atmosphere despite a few, say, bumps at the beginning. You were also talking about where and who President Duda was meeting with. As it happens, e.g. I have a meeting tomorrow on my calendar with President Duda and representatives of one of the industries who need help. Mr President, I am aware that probably not all of these events come to the front pages of the newspapers, but they are happening. Those are the facts. Shopping Sundays. There's no union consent. By using the minute I have left, I will say this: in general it is important to remember that the economic situation of Poland is really not the worst at this moment. Like I said, we have a drop this year, but he's one of the lowest in Europe. After all, the institution completely independent of the Polish state, i.e. one of the large investment banks, has recently even increased the growth forecast for next year. If she comes true - she's incredibly optimistic, it's over 6%. - I really think we're all gonna be very happy about this. Only this reflection, of course, has a bit of a shape of the letter K. Many industries will develop. And there are those we need to help. I hope that this project I was talking about, the project that offers exemption from the Social Security Office for every employee, the project that offers subsidies for jobs, will gain your support. I think it's really worth supporting him today and this. Dozens of sectors covered by the project can help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u349	Thank you very much, Minister. Despite the fact that the time for reply has been exhausted, of course we ask Minister Waldemar Kraska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of politics, maybe a little bit of rehab. Thank you for this debate, because I think it is very important. We are at a difficult time for all Poles. I think we all miss normality, normal meetings among our loved ones, friends. Time is short, but I will answer some questions that are certainly quite interesting and quite often appeared. First of all, the question of plasma. It's been moved many times. I will tell you that in October in Poland, healthy people, because only those can give away plasma - which is an invaluable medicine for patients in severe conditions, as far as coronavirus infection is concerned - gave 2634 units. Let me remind you that one unit of plasma This is approx. 200 ml. During one session three units of plasma can be given. But as early as the first week, in the first 7 days of November, Polish healthers gave almost the same amount, or 2600 units of plasma. And day by day, the amount of plasma returned increases. Our blood service really, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the best not only in Europe, but I think that in the world, and at the moment the amount of donated plasma, this very valuable drug is definitely growing every day. There was a very detailed question about Remdesivir, a medicine that is specifically intended for the treatment of people infected with the coronavirus. In November 48 thousand people went to Poland. doses of this medicine. A similar amount, or 48,000, will go to therapy. Also in December. Let me remind you, it takes five doses for one patient. You've spoken many times about health care. This is a very important part of the fight against the pandemic, but we have increased the number of jobs, we have increased the wages and digitization of this service. And in the state of government, the stations were liquidated, the jobs were cancelled, the laboratories were decommissioned... [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, I am a little sorry that Members of the Law and Justice are disturbing you, but maybe they will last a while. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Finally, I would like to tell you about the vaccinations. Indeed, vaccinations that are going to be for Coronavirus are vaccines that are already announced by pharmaceutical companies, and I hope that they will appear soon enough, are actually the only way we can win this fight against the pandemic, so that we can break this epidemiological chain. And once again, I would like to reiterate that these vaccinations will be voluntary. Voluntary, free, we want to secure vaccines for all adult Poles in our country. We want this vaccine to be widely available, we want to create such a system of distribution of these vaccines so that any Pole can inoculate himself. Of course, I know that many Poles are skeptical about vaccination in general, so we will organize a media campaign to convince Poles that this vaccine is not only effective but also safe. Because this value that there will be no complications after this vaccination, I think it is very important. That is why we want as many Poles as possible to emerge, because it is, as I repeat, the only way to stop this epidemic, which we have been so tired of for so many months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u351	Thank you very much to the Minister, whose statement concludes this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 00 hrs. 21 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 424 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. With a formal proposal from Wiesław Szczepański, Leka. Please. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I present my conclusion, I will read a fragment of an interview: The Left Club 2 days ago tried to push through its project on namesakes on uniforms of police units. This project is lost in one voice. But after what Marshal Czarzasty showed yesterday, and earlier in the Women's Strike in Katowice, Mr Lew Kopiec, I can only say that these namesakes maybe the Members of the Left should introduce themselves. It would be a signal to the police that they could be attacked, and it would be from the least expected, because by the parliamentarians. Such a clear signal: Attention, Member of the Left, there may be an attack on you. These are the words, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the police union, I do not know if the person who has an immense environmental impact, I do not know whether inspired by police management or by the resort. Mrs. Marshal! I'm asking you with a kind request. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 6, but also 198j of the new Rules of Procedure (the bell), please call as a matter of urgency, if you will, the meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, where we could clarify the matter with the Minister of Home Affairs and simply discuss police proceedings, the subject of simultaneous use of... Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Everyone saw what was going on, villager. ... units that weren't uniformed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u353	Mr President, I really did hear you. Thank you very much, sir. It's impossible right now. You know that very well. [[Applause]] The committee responsible has submitted an opinion on the candidate for the Ombudsman, print No 725. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the appointment of the first government delegates to the country, print No 750. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 758. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the appointment of the first government delegates per country (print No 750). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the appointment of the first government delegates to the country on December 3, 2020 marks the 80th anniversary of the appointment of the first representatives of political conspiracy in occupied Poland as permanent government delegates to the country. The position of government delegate to the General Government was taken by Cyril Rataiski - a lawyer, former Minister of Interior in the government of Władysław Grabski, remembered above all as the long-term president of Poznań. Adolf Bniński - a landowner, a long-standing Poznań voivode, a senator, twice as a candidate for the office of President of Poland, became a government delegate for lands incorporated into the German Reich. Both delegates - being an intermediate link between the Polish government in exile and the country - worked to regain Poland's independence: they coordinated the cooperation of Polish political parties in occupied areas, made decisions on political, economic and social matters and stood on the protection of the apoliticality of military conspiracy structures. Their activity was an important element of shaping the Polish Underground State. Adolf Bniński was arrested by the Germans in July 1941 and imprisoned in Fort VII in Poznań. After heavy torture, he was murdered on the night of July 7, 1942. Cyril Rataiski, due to poor health, was forced to resign from his post on August 5, 1942. He died on October 19th in the same year and was buried under an assumed name at the Powęzkowski cemetery. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 80th anniversary of the appointment of Cyril Ratajski and Adolf Bninski as government delegates to the country pays tribute to them and believes that they have served Poland well. Please accept this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the appointment of the first government delegates to the country. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the following agenda: - Left Parliamentary Club (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring Robert Biedron) by points: - Information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the vote in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland in 2020 abroad, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 infection, - Information from the Minister of National Education on the state of preparation for the school year 2020/2021, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with points: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state's finances, the financial situation of the Group of the Polish Development Fund with an indication of expenditure incurred by the Group in 2020 in combating the economic crisis caused by the freezing of the economy by the government, as well as sources of financing, - Information from the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the notice planned by the Government of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of We are voting on the request for information from the Foreign Minister on the conduct of the vote in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland in 2020 abroad. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 - for, 229 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We join the vote on the proposal for information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the state's finances, the financial situation of the Group of the Polish Development Fund with an indication of the expenditure incurred by the Group in 2020 in combating the economic crisis caused by the freezing of the economy by the government and the sources of financing. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for information from the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the government's intention to denounce the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We join the vote on the proposal for information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information from the Minister of National Education on the state of preparation for the 2020/2021 school year. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We would like to refer to item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The additional committee report shall be in print No 709-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of an additional report by the Social Policy and Family Committee on printing No 709-A on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, printing No 704. At its 21st meeting on 18 November 2020, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he re-directed the draft law contained in print No 709 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. 99 amendments were tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting yesterday, proposes that the High Sejm amends 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41, 42, 45, 49, 50, 53, 54, 55, 58, 62, 64, 67, 74, 76, 77, 81, 83, 91, 92 and 95, while amendments 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 38, 39, 43, 44, 46, 46, 47, 48, 52, 56, 57, 59, 61, 63, 65, 66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u355	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 709. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. I would like to inform you that Amendments 35, 40, 49 and 64 have been withdrawn by the applicants. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to change the title. This amendment is accompanied by amendments from 5 to 8, 12, 36, 37, 41, 42, 45, 50, 53 to 55, 62, 67, 74, 76, 81, 83, 91 and 95. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 13. from 34, 39., 43., 44., 46 to 48., 56, 57., 60., 61., 63., 68 to 73. and 75. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 2 to 82 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 6a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 216 - for, 234 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 185 - for, 233 - against, 37 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 11i-11k. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 315 - for, 3 - against, with 136 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 15gh. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose among others. the addition of Article. 15gj. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 10 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 221 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to the calculation and the addition of paragraph 15l. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 441 - for, 1 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments since 13. Up to 34. have become unobtrusive. In the 38th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 15zya and art. Fifteen-fifteen-fifteen-fifteen-fifteen-fifteen-fifty-fifty. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 38, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 44 for, 382 against, 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 43., 44. and 46. -48. They've become unobtrusive. In the 51st amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 31f. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 51 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 223 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 52nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 31fd. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 52 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 194 - for, 231 - against, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 56th amendment, the applicants propose... I'm sorry, it's unobtrusive. 57. She's unobjected, too. In the 58th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 8 31zo. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 58, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 449 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 59th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to paragraph 1. Article 8 31zo. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 59 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 60, 61, 63 and 68 to 71 have become irrelevant. In the 65th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 31zp. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendment 66. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 65 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 222 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 66th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 31zp. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 66 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 72, 73 and 75 have become irrelevant. In the 77th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. Article 4 31zy. Amendment 92 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 77th and 92nd, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 442 for, 8 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 78th amendment, applicants propose among others. do not add an article. 31zzr. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 79 and 80. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 78 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 168 - for, 281 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 79th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of paragraph. 1 and 4 in Articles 1 and 4 31zm. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 79 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 170 for, 284 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 80th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 2 31zm. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 80 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 219-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 82nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 31zy. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 82 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 171 - for, against - 233, 48 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 84th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of paragraph. 1a and repeal of paragraph 1. 1c and 1d in Article 27 Act on personal income tax. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 84 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 43 - for, 232 - against, 175 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 85th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 6, 11, 12, 13, 18c, art. 36, Art. 45 and Article 45 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 85 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 41 - for, 283 - against, 129 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 86th Amendment to the Goods and Services Tax Act, applicants propose a different wording of paragraph 1. 12f in Article 41, change in the mouth. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. In Article 14, the following paragraph is added: 87. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 86 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 207 - for, 234 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 87th amendment to the Cinema Act, the applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. Article 6 18, the other wording of paragraph. 6a, 8, 9, 10 and repeal. 6b and 6c in Article 19. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 87 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 17 - for, 283 - against, 151 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 88th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 46b Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 88 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 203 - for, 243 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 89th amendment, applicants propose: - the other wording of the paragraph. Article 2 134 and the addition of paragraph 134. 5 and other wording of Article. 137 in the Act on Employee Capital Plans, - the other wording of points 2 and 3. 1 and points 2 and 3 of paragraph 1. Article 3 145b Act on Tax on Goods and Services. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 89 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 90th amendment, the applicant proposes to amend the date of entry into force of the Act of 14 February 2020 amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 90 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 18 for, against - 428, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 93rd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 2e to the draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 93, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 38 - for, 411 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 94th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2f to draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 94 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 40 for, 283 against, 128 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 709, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 433 - for, 3 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and the Act on Rules of Participation of Foreign and Other Foreign Enterprises in Trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2021. The additional committee report shall be in print No 714-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u356	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Seven amendments were tabled at the second reading of the Around Budget Act for 2021. The Commission has examined the amendments. It recommends adopting three amendments and rejecting four amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u357	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 714. The Commission presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 1 to 4 of the bill. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 1 to 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 203 - for, 230 - against, 15 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 1 draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 208 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2nd draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3 draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 4th draft bill. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 5th bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 6th draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 - for, 229 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 7th bill. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the absence of the 5th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217-- for, 231-- against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 3 point 3 of the draft law of the applicant proposes to increase the remuneration limit for public cultural institutions by PLN 20 million. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 433 - for, 14 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 15 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 5th minority proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 219 - for, 229 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 16 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 218 - for, 229 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 54 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 63 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 216 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 72 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217-- for, 231-- against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 10th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 73 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 220 for, 230 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 76a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 270 - for, 170 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 69h of the Commercialisation Act and some of the powers of employees of the applicant propose among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 to cover the years 2019 to 2021. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 265 - for, 175 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 714, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 451 Members voted. For-- 233, against-- 217, one holding back. The Sejm has passed a law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2021. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 728-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three amendments were tabled to the Government's draft law amending the Cleanliness and Order Law in the municipalities during the second reading. Today's meeting took place between the Joint Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. During the committee meeting, one of the amendments was withdrawn. The amendments have been examined and the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt both amendments - first and second - voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u359	Thank you, Member. The committees request that the draft law be adopted in print no. 728. At the same time, the committees present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes to give a new wording to the amendment 2. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first and second amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] 448 Members voted. 438 was for, 3 against, 7 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 728, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 437 - for, 2 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union) and the committee draft resolution. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print No 297. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 297. In the first place, I will put the amendment tabled for the draft resolution to the vote. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 207 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 297 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 241 - for, 207 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union). We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2020 (Croatia Presidency in the Council of the European Union) and a committee draft resolution. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendment has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was delivered to print No 610. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 610. In the first place, I will put the amendment tabled for the draft resolution to the vote. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 209 - for, 244 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 610 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's gonna hold off? 452 Members voted. 235 for, 216 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in January-June 2020 (Croatia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - the Teacher Charter and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 730-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy at its meeting today on 19 November considered three amendments tabled in second reading to the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and other laws. The joint amendment committees have given a negative opinion and ask the High House to reject them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u361	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 730. The committees also present a minority proposal and an additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 and minority request were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act - Teacher's Charter. In the first amendment, applicants propose to repeal paragraph. Article 2a 75. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 206 - for, 246 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose that paragraph be amended. Article 2a 75. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 206 - for, 245 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In a minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 3 85. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 219 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add a new wording to the paragraph. Article 1 28b Act - Educational Law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 210 for, 230 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 730 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 309 - for, 4 - against, with 132 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 11 on the agenda: The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on Parliament's draft laws amending the Law on Feed. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 751-A. I ask Mr Maciej Górski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u362	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Today, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has examined the amendment tabled during its second reading to the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Feed, held a discussion and had a negative opinion on this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u363	Thank you very much. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 751. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the only amendment, applicants propose, among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 4 15a Law on Feed. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 186 - for, 233 - against, 28 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 751, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 424 - for, 7 - against, abstained from 19. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Feed. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 737-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Agatha Katarzyna Wojtyszek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy met and discussed the amendments tabled. Seven amendments were tabled. The committees recommend rejecting amendments 1, 2, 3, and 5 and adopting amendments 4, 6, and 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u365	Thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 737. The committees also present a minority proposal, as well as an additional report of amendments, on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund. In the first amendment to Article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to delete point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the non-objectity of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 205 - for, 234 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose that the Act should apply to the Government Fund for the Development of Local Roads. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 204 - for, 234 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 199 - for, 243 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. Paragraph 24 6 point 2. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 436 - for, 4 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 36a paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 214 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the sole request of a minority to Article. 36c paragraph. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 216 - for, 234 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 6a to the amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 218 - for, 235 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 737, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 451 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Fund for Local Roads and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 742. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 742, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 440 - for, 1 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. We are returning to the review of item 51 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 752-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Konrad Frysztak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Tell me about the 14-year-old the police want to shut down. The additional meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs lasted until 3 p.m. yesterday. Today was much faster. 12 amendments were received at second reading and a request for rejection was made. It is worth noting that this law concerns increases for employees. Mr President, I would like a report. You're the rapporteur. But that's what I'm saying. That's exactly what I'm saying. No, I ask for a report, sir. This is a report. Mrs. Marshal! Apart from the fact that this law introduces the National Sports Centre instead of the Ministry of Sport, it raises salaries for Undersecretaries of State who are to become employees of the Civil Service Corps, abolishes the record of the maximum number of employees of the Legislative Board, also increases their salaries. Mrs. Marshal! High Rado! Taking advantage of the fact that today, unfortunately, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki is not in the Chamber, but you are the Deputy Prime Minister... This is not the role of the rapporteur. But it was the committee that chose the rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to refer you to the matter. Let's get to the point, sir. You're the rapporteur. If you do not submit your report, I will cut you off. I would like a report, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the report is? Mr President, you are not taking part in the debate or in the discussion. I want you to report to the committee. Please, sir, or I'll call you to order. That's what he does. This is an additional report. Marshal, this is an additional report. I'm the rapporteur... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madame, do not insult my intelligence. ...that is why I would like to ask before publishing the formula of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, why we do not publish... Mr President, once again, I would like to call you back to order. Let's get to the point, sir. Report. Mr President, will you present a report? What are you afraid of? That's what I'm trying to do. This isn't a violation of the rules. Not publishing this is... Sir, please calm down, okay? Don't argue with the benches. Report, please. I'd like to remind you that this is the last time I've warned you. The Commission is asking for a bill, although you will not drown out the fact that you haven't published... [[Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u367	The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 752. The Commission puts forward minority proposals and in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments on which we will vote first. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We are voting on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 219 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. The Act on Government Administrations proposes not to add point 10a. The consequence of the adoption of the first minority proposal will be the deletion of the said provisions. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 210 for, 234 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose to delete Article. 2. The consequence of the adoption of the 2nd minority proposal will be the deletion of the said provisions. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority application, applicants shall propose to delete Article. 4. The consequence of the adoption of the 3rd minority proposal will be the deletion of the said provisions. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 206 - for, 234 - against, 10 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. in the Act on the Council of Ministers, do not add Article. 15a-15f. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 206 - for, 235 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In Amendment 1, the applicants propose, inter alia, other wording of Article. 28a Foreign Service Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 238 - for, 199 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52 of the Civil Service Act add paragraphs 9 and 10. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 203 - for, 239 - against, 7 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In Amendment 2, applicants propose the addition of Article. 45a containing an amendment to the Sports Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 235 - for, 207 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 3, applicants propose the addition of Article. 55a containing amendments to the act on combating doping in sport. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the applicants propose to add an article. 61b containing amendments to the Łukasiewicz Research Network Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 312 - for, 131 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th minority application, applicants propose to delete Article. 64. The consequence of the adoption of the 6th minority proposal will be the deletion of the said provisions. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 210 for, 231 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In Amendment 5, applicants propose a different wording of Article. Paragraph 98. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 313 - for, 127 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6, applicants propose a different wording of Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 311 - for, against - 132, 13 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 752, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 for, 217 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on government departments and certain other laws. Formal proposal, Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. There you go. One minute. Member with a formal request?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u368	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a very important thing to you. Member of the Commission, a formal proposal. I remember an MP from the protest in the Seym in two thousand... Madame, please make a formal proposal. Okay, Marshal, but let me know. No, my fellow Member. Please make a formal request. Stick to this formula. He said that the parents of disabled children couldn't be met... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sit down, Mr. Chairman. ...because we treat children like hostages and live shields. In his view, degenerate parents may have been among us, and therefore we cannot have live cash in our hands. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mrs... But your marshal... No, my fellow Member. You're not gonna wash off this disgrace with the best washing powder. Does she understand that she is making a formal proposal and what is it? Give me the formal application form. What? Your Marshal, you will not wash away this disgrace... Thank you, then. This is not a formal conclusion. It's pointless to censor Members. You don't even know what you want to say. ...the best washing powder. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u369	We would like to return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of private prosecutors Iwona Hartwich, Marzeny Stanewicz, Anna Glinka, Katarzyna Milewicz, Karol Milewicz and Alicja Jochymek, represented by Jarosław Kaczyński's attorney on 10 May 2018 to agree by the Sejm to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the Members is in favour of the request of private prosecutors Iwona Hartwich, Marzeny Stanewicz, Anna Glinka, Katarzyna Milewicz, Karol Milewicz and Alicja Jochymek represented by Jarosław Kaczyński on 10 May 2018 to give the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalka, for the act specified in this request, will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Disgraceful! Disgraceful! How was the baby screaming, "Mom, stop it, it wasn't a disgrace?" And when Mr. Kaczyński comes out on the stand... Calm down. Easy, easy. Do you still have the strength at this hour? Something like that. It's your responsibility to vote at this hour. You represent the Sejm, not the head of the party. 449 Members voted. For - 196, against - 244, 9 stopped. The Sejm, against the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalka for the act specified in the application by private prosecutors Iwona Hartwich, Marzeny Stanewicz, Anna Glinka, Katarzyna Milewicz, Karol Milewicz and Alicja Jochymek represented by Jarosław Kaczyński. Shame. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints Nos 715, 716 and 725). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 Constitution and Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsman with the consent of the Senate. Two groups of Members have submitted the candidacy of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz as ombudsman. On behalf of the group of Members from parliamentary clubs Left and Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, Mr Krzysztof Śmishek will present his candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an extraordinary honor and an extraordinary pleasure to present the candidacy of Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz as ombudsman. This candidacy is supported by Members and Members of the Coalition Club of the Left, as well as Members and Members of the Polish People's Party. First of all, I would like to welcome you very warmly to the gallery with us, Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz. [[Applause]] This time, without fighting the Marshal's Guard, we managed to get a patron to the gallery and give her the right place as a candidate for this political, important, constitutional position. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today is exactly 100 days from the time when the statutory, constitutional, statutory deadline for the candidate or candidate for this post has passed. 100 days citizens and citizens are waiting for a candidate, a candidate that the Sejm will accept. Five Sejm meetings have passed, three Justice and Human Rights Committee meetings, and what do we have? We don't have an elected ombudsman. We're wasting our time, we're wasting our money, we're wasting our social commitment. The work of this House is in vain only because the Law and Justice have decided without justification not to submit their candidate, and once again to announce recruitment for this position. As it is, on the one hand, that you have no argument, no justification, there is no parliamentary debate, especially in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, on the candidacy of Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy on the part of Law and Justice, and on the other hand you are not once again submitting your candidate. What's going on here? What's the truth? Why don't you report your candidate, and the candidate that 1,200 social organizations supported, reject and dissuade her without justification? We've introduced the candidate recently, so I'm just going to focus on the fact that she meets all the statutory requirements. The Ombudsman's Act makes it very clear: the Ombudsman may be a Polish citizen with legal knowledge, professional experience and high authority due to his moral qualities and social sensitivity. This social sensitivity, this civic trust, this gigantic social energy that your patron has liberated in the Polish society, is evident. She is a candidate who meets the expectations not of the High House, not of Law and Justice, not of the left or right, but of the Polish sovereign. 1,200 social organizations have decided to trust your patronage. Susanna Rudzińska-Ivy and fight for her. This candidate doesn't just know the Ombudsman's office as much as she knows her own pocket. He's been working there for years. He's leading the most complicated court proceedings, leaning over cases you don't want to lean on. She leans over people who are excluded, homeless, discriminated against, women who suffer unequal treatment. All the things she's committed to, the things she's been fighting for, clearly indicate that society has already given you its trust. Excellent lawyer, excellent specialist. It fully complies with all statutory requirements. We don't have time for the next few weeks to reschedule. We have a historic opportunity today. We have a chance today to choose an ombudsman. Counselor, you've already become a citizen's spokesperson. Ha, ha, ha. You and your attitude, your colleagues, show that you are worthy of this trust. And the fact that they're laughing at you, the fact that they're mocking you, just means they're embarrassed. They're ashamed they couldn't pick their candidate. They are ashamed that so many social organizations support you from left to right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Counselor, you're already an attorney for civil rights. Thank you very much and we fully support your candidacy. Good luck. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u371	I now ask Mr Krzysztof July to present... Oh, and Mr Kropiwnicki. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Candidate! The High House has a constitutional obligation to elect an ombudsman. This is our shared responsibility. Candidate! Our House must do this - the election of an ombudsman. Speakers. It doesn't matter at this point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think it's really late for you, but I'd like to ask you to keep your responsibilities in mind. And it's your duty to elect an ombudsman today. A good one, one that we report, because you didn't report any. Then put in a few nominations. Look what's going on in the streets. You set fire to Poland. You set fire to human emotions. You've secured the Sejm. The Seym is blocked. No one can approach the Sejm. In order to approach the Sejm, you must show your IDs to the police. When there was a situation... Mr President, let me get to the point. You're introducing a candidate, and you're not making any stories right now. But the room is debating with me. Take care of what you're supposed to do. Introduce the candidate. The situation is dramatic in the Polish country. And we all know that your emotions are being turned on by you. And your leader yesterday said that many of us will sit when the rule of law comes. Your boss here said that to us yesterday. That's where he gets the applause. So it's the same hate spiral all the time. Do you really want this kind of Poland? This is the country you want for our children, for all of us, that we'll all be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I've been paying your attention to what you're standing here for. Speak of the candidate, and he doesn't give you any dynamite here. Take care of what you're doing here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What kind of censorship is that? What's that supposed to mean? People are dying because I'll remind you... But who died? What are you talking about? Paweł Adamowicz was killed, Marek Rosiak was killed. They're the same emotions your leader's got going on all the time. You fight Poles. There's no microphone. You are fighting the European Union, you are fighting everyone, because you are fighting for your stools first and foremost. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] And that's why I'm appealing to you to calm your emotions so you can think about where we're going. We? You're the ones flying over there. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'm bringing you up to speed. Or you'll be... I'm talking about the candidate... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, you're not talking about the candidate. End this show. Your club hasn't introduced any candidates. Mr... I understand that you choose Orlen, Tauron, KGHM, that you have more interesting matters. What's this? This function requires hard work, 5 years of hard work, because it's a job without... no protection, no privileges... He's got five minutes to say it. He's talking nonsense. Mr... It's his business what he says. His business, Mr. Marshal. Him, but he's not here to tell stories, he's here to introduce a candidate. Mr President, you know these are not statements. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] But don't disturb me. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a really late time. And I appeal to you to think about it, because you will not escape responsibility. And the Ombudsman... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...represents Poles both... Is my mic on? This is ridiculous at all. Your marshal? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] I've turned it on, sir, I've turned it on. Please. [[Marshal turns on the microphone]] You can't work like that. This is really... [[The joy, the chatter in the hall]] Mr President, listen to me. Mr. President, wait a minute. Comedy. It's late, sir. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, no, this is not any statement, because this is the time for statements. Sir, I'm asking you to take care of what you're on the stand for. Your Marshal, but I have five minutes to present the subject, and during that time, Mr. Marshal Terlecki turns off the microphone. Okay, but talk to me, sir. Okay? Get to the point, please. It's outrageous how you treat the High House. Please, sir, you are at your voice. Go ahead. There you go. Your marshal, I'm sorry, but I don't know what the House has heard and what it hasn't heard. [[Joy in the Chamber]] She heard everything, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Mr President, finish up. Okay? This is the second time you haven't applied for a candidate. This is the second time, although you have the majority in this House. We've reported a candidate who wants to work. Our candidate wants to work five years for Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Already today, it represents more than 1,200 organisations from right to left, from small rural hostels to large national organisations. You don't have a candidate. Okay, I get it. Your people choose KGHM, Orlen, Tauron. You prefer fat jobs, and this is a position that requires hard work. The candidate we are reporting is not a member of the Platform either, he is not a member of any party, he is a citizen candidate, so you can say to yourself quite honestly: neither yours nor ours. She is a candidate for citizens and therefore I encourage you to consider that it is worth supporting our candidate today in order to fulfil your constitutional obligation. And yet yours. The fact that you don't like hearing the truth is the most obvious thing today. You're afraid of the truth, though you won't laugh at it, you won't scream. The truth will come out sooner or later. Yes, sir. We agree. Thank you very much. You'll be responsible for all of this. Marshal, this is outrageous. You can't just work. [[Applause]] It didn't work out so well. Two.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u373	Good. Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Krzysztof July to present the opinion of the committee. There are people in this room who can come out and say anything, and no one can turn their microphone off. I do not agree with you at this point, sir, but this is not the time for such discussions. I would very much like to ask Mr July to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a negative opinion on the candidate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u375	Thank you very much. Members have spoken in the debate. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba. I'm setting the speaking time - two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Social candidate for the Ombudsman's office! In the normal Seym this discussion should be very serious, because it is about 38 million Poles and Poles. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not choosing a spokesperson who has digged herself where she can, but we are choosing a public spokesperson. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we do not come here as applicants who formally submitted this candidacy, but we really do come as representatives of the society represented by 1200 NGOs who have elected their representative as ombudsman for the next five years. And today, High Izbo, with a candidate competent, combining, independent and impartial, we can do something together. With you two? It hasn't worked in five years. And today is the moment. The Prime Minister sometimes comes to the floor and says: cooperation, it changes the word by all possible cases. And today society comes and asks, "What if there is an office that will stand on the side of a man who is lost and often left to himself? Because today we're talking not about some big politics, but about very human things, about people you often don't remember about in your big disputes. We are talking about people with disabilities, we are talking about people in a homeless crisis, we are talking about people with dementia diseases, which are often left to themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these people need a spokesperson... Time! Time! ...the spokesperson of his rights when power pushes around and there's no time to take care of ordinary people's affairs. Thank you very much. Cases during the pandemic. Such a spokesman could be the Counselor of Rudzińska-Ivy and we cordially ask for her support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir. There you go, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u378	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Why do we need a spokesperson today, a spokesperson for civil rights? 497 people identified, 320 applications for punishment to court, 297 notes made to the health care center, over 20 people detained - this is a balance sheet from yesterday, only from one protest in one city. How far will a power go that doesn't resist breaking the law, breaking human rights just to keep that power? As of 2015, i.e. Since the beginning of the rule of law and justice, the number of temporary arrests has increased more than twice, although crime has fallen. What can you be arrested for in our country? How is power abused? We've seen it almost every day during the protests for almost a month. That's what the power of the sick with fear, strong against the weak, like yesterday, when five officers stood up to one small girl from an empty square. Actually, we don't know why. Is it because she's the last one on the scene? Or because she kept a banner there? Or maybe his content didn't like his orders? How can an ordinary citizen, a citizen, when the state does not protect them, when power, instead of acting, breaks the law itself, immunity, allows violence when ununited officers first provoke, then beat, and those in uniform use gas and force for which the only justification is the command from Nowogrodzka? According to Art. 80 of the Constitution, each person has the right to apply to the Ombudsman for assistance in the protection of his or her rights and freedoms infringed by public authorities. The state on the right side of the House, if I misjudge the situation, if your intentions... if it is not political interest, but the public good is at your heart today, if it isn't about filling up posts and offices only with your obedient officers (the bell)... Thank you, Member. ...please vote for a competent... Thank you, Member. You're welcome... Thank you. ...a substantive, non-partisan candidate with broad public support. It's gonna be... Thank you, Member. Member, I thanked you. Thank you, Madam President, because you probably can't hear me. That's the third time I've said it. It'll be legal and fair. And yes, she's not yours, but... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u379	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u380	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Counselor! The State of the United Right gets very nervous and annoyed when you hear: so-called. Constitutional Tribunal, so-called D.A.'s office, so-called. The National Judicial Council, but today and for the last time, Mr Mosiński, you have been working for weeks to make the next one so-called. Ombudsman, obstructing the selection process. Ms Rudzińska-Iluszcz wants to propose to you, first of all, to us and Poles, in social space, in public space outside the Polish-Polish War, apart from hatred, fueling this hatred, besides the permanent conflict heated by President Kaczyński, recently eagerly here, from this speaker, there is cooperation. To focus on senior policy, to improve seniors, to exclude children and young people today, digital exclusion, education exclusion, to focus on areas of poverty, which, despite many years of efforts - including yours - are unfortunately still severe. Ladies and gentlemen, this choice today will be symbolic. It will be up to you whether it is the Polish-Polish War, the destruction of other institutions, or perhaps cooperation, cooperation concerning extremely important social areas that should be combined. But, as I look at Mr Mosiński, conflict, hatred, Mr, the Internet hat is more important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u381	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Mr Smishek, presenting the figure here, missed the truth. Organisations supporting your esteemed candidate are organisations not from left to right, but mainly from left to left. And that is the essence of this candidacy. Anyway, what other candidacy could have been born under the wings of the extremely left-wing, extremely ideological and extremely politicized office, in which Adam Bodnar, the most extremistly left-wing Ombudsman after 1989, transformed the Ombudsman's Office. Yes, appointed by the Civic Platform, once a party considered to be a Chadtec. Adam Bodnar made this office become an office that makes an ideological crusade just in Poland. We've been experiencing this not only in recent years, but also in recent weeks. Mrs. Rudzińska-Ivy has recently joined this crusade. She didn't mind attacks on churches, she didn't mind desecrating places of worship, but she didn't mind when the citizens, when the Poles, when the faithful decided to defend these churches. It was from Adam Bodnar's wings that the extremely left-wing MEP Sylwia Spurek came out, who today in the international arena is compromising Poland. And that's also due to the Civic Platform. However, what is unfortunately due to the ruling party is the extreme political impotence that there is no... that this party cannot bring out even a solid candidate for RPO. With such an advantage in the Seym and so much sham in the Senate, the ruling party is unable to take any political game. This is unfortunately a testimony of how for 5 years PiS is wasting all conservative chances (The Bell), ruling Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u383	Thank you, sir. Mrs... Sit down, sir. You're welcome. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, not associated. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's late, and it's not the time for oratory performances. Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz stands before us - I am glad to see her here today - a social candidate for an ombudsman who can see everyone: helpless and old, lonely and sick, homeless and simple, whom you are hurting today with your laughter. If not today, tomorrow, if not sooner, then later Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy will be a spokesperson for civil rights. And that is what I want to tell you today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u385	Mr... My name came up from that podium. You cannot straighten out a Member who has the right to say. You can straighten out your quote. There was no such thing. But he misinterpreted, misunderstood. There was no such thing. No, no, no. He misunderstood... Mr President, don't tell me who interprets your words. Every Member has the right to have his or her views. But the Member... your marshal. No, sir, this is not a correction to your mispronounced thought, really. This is a statement by the Member on behalf of the Confederation. Oh, no, but... The discussion is closed. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. 31 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be appointed by an absolute majority of the Ombudsman. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Can we close or cancel? Ladies and gentlemen, the results are coming in all the time. What are you so impatient about? I don't get it. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, don't lecture me on what to do, please. For now, I'm in session. I'm saying voices are coming in. We had a longer break because there were speeches. We always have to wait longer in the first vote. So don't argue with me, okay? These comments are completely inappropriate, Mr President. How do you know that the vote... You see, I have this window right here, this TV, and I can see it. See? I can see, I can see. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! That's what we're asking. I wonder... how they get on that mountain. How would you know if I'd come home from the kitchen and vote... Maybe it'll be more interesting if we put it on the big screen. Members fell asleep. You can see, ladies and gentlemen, on this side this large personal culture, a large culture. What you are demanding and what everyone here is saying... You're hurt, you're poor, you're really hurt. Look at the way you've been acting. Thank you. 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 204 Members, against - 244, 3 abstentions. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz to be an ombudsman. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 758). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 758, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 415 - for, 3 - against, holding off on 23. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 00 min. 52 hours 00 min 54]] Good evening. I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, let's try to do this. It's pretty fast, okay? Objection! You're gonna talk all you want, but I'm gonna ask you to just be quick, 'cause each of us would like to be somewhere else by now. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of the answer to the additional question - although he will do so very reluctantly. Who do I ask for a question? Members Marek Polak, Elżbieta Duda and Ryszard Bartosik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, a question on the support of people with disabilities in our country and the elimination of barriers they face. Mr Paweł Wdzik will answer the Minister of Family and Social Policy, remotely. There you go. Are you Elizabeth Duda, Richard Bartosik, Marek Polak? Thank you. Members Agnieszka Pomaska and Sławomir Nitras from the Parliamentary Coalition Club... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? Member of the Pole remotely. I don't have that information. He remotely wanted to answer Minister Wdezik, but there won't be a question, so he won't answer. Mr Polak is on and waiting, and he asks why the law firm does not connect him. The Member today too... and still remotely. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u386	Oh, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal... We agreed to make it short. There you go. Yes, of course. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Recently, the Constitutional Tribunal decided on the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution so-called. eugenic reasons for abortion, which caused protests in some environments in Poland, as we know. One of the alleged arguments for maintaining this condition is, according to the protesters, the lack of support from the state for families in which disabled children will be born. Civilised societies around the world place a great deal of emphasis on support for people with disabilities in both education and professional and sports activities, and, of course, many others, and on the other hand, on environments that demand the right to eliminate children with the suspicion of severe diseases during the prenatal period. That is why I would like to ask about the level of support for people with disabilities in our country, especially the changes that have taken place in recent... Mr President, there is an hour. 1 a.m. Ask me a question. Mr. Marshal, he's got two minutes. Let me ask you a question. I would just like to ask you about the changes that have taken place in recent years in the elimination of the various barriers faced by people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u387	Thank you very much. Minister Paweł Wdewik responds remotely. Minister, welcome, sir. Is the Minister somewhere? He's somewhere. He's wearing slippers. And the Member who asked the question remotely will listen to the Minister or will we be the only ones listening to him? I think it'll be on the screen. Okay, Minister, I'm calling you out. Are there Agnieszka and Sławek? Two people? I'll be there. Okay, Fame is not, of course, the beloved Mr Nitras of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - we know it by heart. But there's our minister? They're connecting. Maybe they're just waking him up. [[Joy in the Chamber]] When ministers sleep, we can't answer. Let's reschedule. Good evening, Minister, please. [[The Secretary of State's statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u388	Good evening, I understand that this is an invitation for me, yes? Yes. Did you hear the question? I haven't heard, but... [[Joy in the Chamber]] But you're gonna answer, right? ...I expect it was for people with disabilities. Okay, I know, I'm just asking if you heard the question. No, I didn't. I was just on right now. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And we can ask the Member to ask this question again, because I do not know what question you are going to answer if there is no one to ask it. Minister, there's an awkward situation not because of me. You haven't heard the question, so it's gonna be very difficult for you to answer it. Yeah, I get it. Is there any chance that the envoy who asked them would repeat that question? Not anymore, because we've already connected with him. We hung up. I understand you weren't on. [[Game in the O.R.]] Be serious. I take it you weren't on? I wasn't on, I was turned off after my first try. Minister, can we do that so we can postpone this to the next sitting and then the Minister will answer? I can answer at any time and any time you wish. In writing, you can. Minister, I have a proposition. I will ask the Member to ask this question in writing and you will answer in writing. I think that would be wise. Do you agree? I don't think that's my decision. If I am asked to answer in writing, I will answer in writing. Then let's agree it's my decision. The Member will ask a question in writing and the Minister will answer. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u389	Thank you very much, and I apologize for the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u390	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go. Who's answering? Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Marcin Przydacz, who is in the Chamber. Great, thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The time is late, but today is the issue of the EU budget, the question of the dependence of resources allocated, among others. for Poland, for Polish entrepreneurs, for Polish local governments, in various places in Poland. And these budgetary resources in the European Union are to be conditional on compliance with the rule of law in Poland. Today and yesterday we spoke a lot about this in the High House. She was accepted, among others. Resolution. Hence my question to the Minister: How does the Minister assess the possible effectiveness of this resolution? Doesn't the Minister think that a resolution to help us can hurt us? Doesn't the Minister think that Prime Minister Morawiecki, along with his background from Law and Justice, is primarily concerned with flexing muscles in this House, and when he goes to Brussels or other countries of the European Union, his muscles are shrinking and he has little to say there? I would like to ask the Minister if he does not think that dialogue in the European Union, but such a fair dialogue, should be the foundation of our international relations and European relations. And I would like to ask, Minister, if he does not think that the behaviour of the Prime Minister is simply very frivolous. I would like to remind you that Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to compromise in July, because the compromise and the agreement have this in common, that now all 27 countries agree to do so. And once the compromise is agreed, he starts to play veto. Only because he was scared by Minister Ziobra. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u392	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome. I would like to ask you if you will have an additional question. We'll see. But I think you're leaning towards... That's right. I don't know the Minister. For the first time in my life. But I guess so, we'll see. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, I will try, Mr. Marshal, very briefly, indeed respecting the time of the High House. There was a question about the effectiveness of the resolution. It would be difficult to deny the High House the value of this resolution. However, the government takes its mandate from the support of the High House and such a resolution supporting or motivating the President of the Council of Ministers to a given international activity will certainly strengthen this negotiating mandate. This shows that the Prime Minister welcomes the support of the parliamentary majority, thus the mandate for discussion, for this dialogue that you spoke about, has been strengthened. It would be impossible to say that the activity of the High House would harm anyone, because that is why you are meeting, for this reason you are discussing Parliament, to help the government, and I assume that in international dialogue it is all the more necessary to agree here. It is impossible to agree with the statement, because it was not even a question that the Prime Minister supposedly flexes his muscles. I have the impression, however, that we have quite a responsible foreign policy also in the international forum. The days of the ugly girl on the release are long gone. Today Poland pursues its interests according to how they are defined, not in the spirit of a bent-neck policy and consent to the voices of strong, strong actors in the European Union. But I agree, of course, that dialogue should be the right way to negotiate, and we are having this dialogue. We have been very active in talking to our European partners for a few weeks, and in fact for the past few days. I would remind you that today there was a European Council meeting in the form of a teleconference. The subject of the budget was also discussed there. The Prime Minister actively presented our argument, supported also by the Prime Minister of other countries, for example the Prime Minister of Slovenia. It seems to me, therefore, that this is what it means to wipe out certain positions, that it is through dialogue that we are making our point, and then we are expecting a compromise. That's right. There was a compromise at the July summit, while the German Presidency, negotiating the content of the regulation, went beyond the mandate set by the European Council. This regulation, apart from the fact that it is not supported by this unanimous determination by the European Council, is in fact incompatible with primary law, with Treaty law. Art. The 7th Treaty on European Union already provides for a rule of law study, and the regulation as a lower order cannot, after all, be in complete conflict with the original law, with the Treaty law. That's all I can say about it. We will certainly try to negotiate the best budget for Poles and Poles in such a way that they are not addicted to willfulness, political decision or political sympathy, or even the activity of the Polish opposition in international fora. Let me remind you that on 17 September this year - quite an important date - your colleagues in the European Parliament voted a resolution that calls on the European institutions to block European funds for Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] This is your activity. We are trying to make sure that this money intended for Poles in a spirit of compliance with the treaty regulations finds its place in Poland, because Poles have the right to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u394	Thank you. Do you have a question? Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, you're welcome. There will be a question about the "Instrument for Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation" and the "National Recovery Plan." Minister Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u395	The question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Today Poland is facing a crisis caused by a pandemic - the loss of jobs, an inefficient health system, the lack of computers for children. There are many systemic areas that need to be changed. For all of this is money from the European Union in the form of a "Instrument for Reconstructing and Enhancing Immunity'. Poland is to receive €57 billion from these funds. The European Commission has pointed out that these measures should primarily be devoted to health, environmental and digital reforms. However, many projects submitted by voivodships to the National Recovery Plan are contrary to the objectives of the European Fund. We will find here projects that are socially and environmentally harmful, e.g. concrete rivers, waste incinerators, roads in nature reserves or even a ski lift that will cut out 40 hectares of the old forest. The whole process of selecting projects and allocating EU funds is non-transparent and beyond social control. I therefore ask the Prime Minister, with questions: What reforms are you going to finance from this fund? When and how will the government involve the social side in the process of selecting reforms and projects under the National Recovery Plan? What criteria for selecting projects will be taken into account and will socially and environmentally harmful projects be eliminated? I also ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u396	Thank you. I invite the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards issues relating to the preparation of the National Recovery Plan, the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy is the department which is involved in the preparation of this document. Individual departments are also involved in this work, which are responsible for specific areas of implementation. They are also regions, they are socio-economic stakeholders, but also external experts. The proposals for projects to the NRPs - as the Member has rightly mentioned, the National Recovery Plan - are reforms. We are moving away from reforms and these reforms will be implemented through individual projects. Proposals were made from different departments, regions, regions worked with their stakeholders and socio-economic partners, but the Social Dialogue Council was also involved. More than 2,5 thousand were originally reported for the National Recovery Plan. projects. The most meaningful collections of projects, which were 1,200, have already been developed. Eight working groups were set up for this work. These working groups work in the following areas: infrastructure, transport, energy and the environment, innovation, society, health, digitalisation and territorial cohesion. These are working groups that correspond to areas that can be supported under the National Recovery Plan. Because the National Recovery Plan, ladies and gentlemen, is not only the three areas mentioned, namely health protection, green economy and digitalisation, but also those areas that will be responsible for increasing resilience to possible other phenomena that may disrupt the economic process. Within these working groups, this assessment is still ongoing, the process of verification and evaluation of projects that have been notified to the National Recovery Plan. We must say to ourselves here that the rules for spending funds under the National Recovery Plan have not yet been established, as the Commission is still working on the final form of the regulation. This was supposed to be a simple, easy, fast implementation instrument, while subsequent amendments to the regulation could make it much more difficult than the issues related to the implementation of cohesion policy, which we have known for many years. We talked, and the question also concerned the inclusion of the social side in the project selection process. Representatives of the Social Dialogue Council shall participate in the work of all working groups in eight areas. The participation of employers and workers is ensured in each working group. The working groups include representatives of the NSZZ Solidarity, Employers of the Republic of Poland, the Confederation of Leviatan or the Business Centre Club. The Social Dialogue Council has a very strong representation of these people, with four to nine representatives from the Social Dialogue Council in each group. Most of the representatives participate in the Innovation Group's work. The work of the groups shall be managed by representatives of the managing authorities of the national operational programmes and by a department which shall coordinate regional operational programmes. External experts may also be invited to the composition of these groups in areas corresponding to specific themes. As regards the process of identifying projects to the National Recovery Plan, it is primarily based on three types of criteria: the framework criteria which clearly define the objective and point out milestones, but also the indicators on which the funds will be transferred; the strategic criteria, i.e. those which refer to the relevance of climate neutrality, the digital transformation, but also include an assessment of the feasibility of a project which is necessary for the implementation of these projects as soon as possible; and the third group are thematic criteria, here we are already entering into a point assessment which takes into account the thematic specificities of the area concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As regards issues related to specific allocation to individual reforms, a matrix has been created for the National Recovery Plan, which segregates individual projects, and in fact project bundles, because we cannot talk about point projects, but about a group of projects, about projects that implement individual reforms. And this matrix shows the logic of programming interventions under the National Recovery Plan, but also the possibility of financing a given project, project bundles from sources of funding other than the National Recovery Plan, if the project does not fit into this plan. Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, we are also in the technical phase of discussions with the European Commission on projects. Minister, can you please stop? Because it's too long a minute, and it's an hour. 1.20. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynik: Actually, I think... Oh, we've talked about the fact that there are projects that are harmful to society. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no waste incinerators or concrete rivers in project bundles and complex projects. Yes, there are projects on inland waterways, but this is a question of deepening so as to bridge the rivers. There are flood prevention projects, there are circular economy projects, there are projects for the development of biogas plants, and all projects must meet the condition: do not harm, i.e. do not harm. And such projects, which will be harmful, will certainly not be able to obtain support under the National Recovery Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u398	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? No. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just thinking, it's an hour. 1.20. There are 11 points for current questions. We'll finish these points at hours. 3.30. There's two more laws, we'll be done at the end of the day. 5. Or, for example, If you asked your questions in writing and the ministers answered in writing, would it be a tragedy for you? No, no, no, no, no, No way. You'll have to listen to it at about an hour. Three in the morning, right? I understand people are just waiting, that's all. Yes? Okay. That's not an alternative. I know it isn't, my fellow Member. Let's go, yeah. It's okay. We'd love to reschedule for tomorrow, Mr. Marshal, if there was a chance. You should have voted for the Sejm Bureau on this matter, Mr. Marshal. Members Mr Rzepa and Mr Ziejewski. Can it be that only one of you will ask a question? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's okay. Great. Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, sir. Mr. Marshal, we can get out of here... Look, I know there's a Sejm, everything's fine, it's only hour. 1.30. Then ask the marshal. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But it's not mine either. We'll be done at an hour. 5. I understand I'm gonna postpone your question for an hour. Five, you'll be thrilled, Mrs. Messenger. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And I was driving, right? ...we've been investigating the extension of the vacathio legis when it comes to the possibility of bringing in soy buckwheat. That's why I'm gonna skip that part of the question. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the protein programme that was adopted - the last protein programme in 2015, then the budget for this programme was set at nearly PLN 34 million. This was mainly intended to cover four areas: genetics and plant breeding, agrotechnologies, animal feeding and economics of the market organisation. I would like to hear the Ministry's answer to the question of what results we have on the Polish protein programme, as well as information on the costs and effects of its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as I welcome the fact that we are number one on the poultry market in Europe, even though we have a very big crisis in the market, let's say poultry meat is below cost, but farmers are about to stop filling the henhouses. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are very concerned about the decline in the area of protein crops. In 2015, it was 690 thousand. t, and last year - only 462 thousand. a. So, with that in mind, the ambitious program, the money spent, but the results are gone. I would very much like to know what the effects of this program may be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u400	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to Minister Anna Gembicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The financial expenditure for the implementation of this programme was 30,826 thousand in 2011 and 2015. PLN, while in the period 2016-2020 it was 33 139 thousand. zł. The government has implemented two comprehensive research projects covering the main problems of increased production and use of national protein raw materials in animal nutrition. The main objective of the programmes was to create conditions for reducing imports of feed protein by around 50%. The work was aimed at increasing the biological and useful value of plant protein derived from indigenous raw materials and at increasing the availability of national varieties grown in new technologies which could be an alternative to the feeding of poultry and pigs. A total of 152 seminars were organised for agricultural advisory centres, producer groups and agricultural schools in 2011 and-2020, i.e. Over 12,000. Participants. The following results have been achieved under the multi-annual programmes in four leading areas. As regards the programme: the varieties of legumes useful in the cultivation and use of feed, here the work was devoted to improving the stability and quality of protein crops, physiological processes determining the plant's resistance to drought and tolerance to frosts and the efficiency of the use of water and nutrients. These are the most difficult problems in breeding this group of plants. Growing materials with reduced alkaloid content in seeds and with a favourable sugar system were produced. These qualities are most important from the point of view of nutritional fitness. Breeders have at their disposal breeding materials, which are suitable for cultivation in Poland, but also cannot be questioned from the point of view of usefulness in animal nutrition, which is constantly taking place so far. The breeding companies have started work with materials produced in the program. New varieties will soon be reported for registration in COBOR. As regards the next programme: agrotechnologies of legumes, the purpose of the tasks was to improve the technology of cultivation of bobice, peas, barley and soya in terms of production, environmental and economic effects. A number of agrotechnical experiments were carried out, the impact of different types of cultivation was assessed and translated into costs. The most favourable and least cost-intensive crop types were selected. On this basis, farming recommendations have been drawn up for farmers. The ODRs received recommendations on simplified cultivation technologies. Here costs and labour intensity are about 20% lower. Another programme is: feed formulas for poultry and pigs using national sources of plant protein. The nutrient content of domestic raw materials, including macro- and micro-nutrients, energy value and digestion, has been evaluated and the impact of domestic legumes on the functioning of the animal gastrointestinal tract and the quality of products of animal origin has been assessed. The results of animal experiments have shown that national protein sources may be significantly higher than previously recognised. Recipes are available on-line on the website of the multiannual programme and have been forwarded to all ODRs and all interested in the issue of feed establishments. The fourth programme is: an economic assessment of the potential use of national protein sources in feed production. The economic conditions for the development of protein crops have been analysed here and demand and supply factors have been identified which determine the current size and cost-effectiveness of the use of national protein sources for feed purposes. An analysis of the existing market infrastructure and the trading system for native protein crops has been carried out. It has been confirmed that farmers have decided to grow legumes in order to improve the structure of the soil and prepare a favourable position for the succeeding plant, not because of the commodity production of the seeds of these plants. For the large feed industry, which supplies feed about 70% domestic market, domestic protein raw materials lose competition with standardised soya buckwheat. We're still missing large, uniform batches of seeds. The market for legumes is not organised, and small and uneven seed lots make the feed industry not want to risk their use in production for technological reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u402	Thank you. Do any of you Members have a question? Please. I'm just saying, Mr. Marshal... if that's the way these answers are supposed to look, it's better that... if anybody's going to read, just give the answer in writing, there's no point in really waiting here... But, sir, kindly, politely and sympatheticly, I have offered... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, are you... To shore. Are you asking a question? No. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Is it? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fight against the Coronavirus pandemic obliged the government to decide to close the cemeteries between 31 October and 2 November 2020, i.e. during one of the biggest and most strongly celebrated holidays, i.e. All Saints. Entrepreneurs, who are agricultural producers and chrysanthemum sellers, have suffered considerable financial and, above all, material losses because of this decision. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has announced the launch of a support programme for all these entrepreneurs. Hence my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development: How many entrepreneurs have so far applied for compensation? What percentage are agricultural producers and which sellers? Does the resort have data about entrepreneurs who did not benefit from the assistance offered to them at all? How much will the total amount of support for entrepreneurs be? How many entrepreneurs have decided to transfer flowers to non-governmental organisations, local government units or other public institutions that have notified their intention to receive chrysanthemums, and how many have given chrysanthemums to waste collection or treatment entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u404	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. One to all the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of this aid, holders of at least 50 pot chrysanthemums and 200 chrysanthemums in full maturity were able to benefit from it, until 6 November they were able to report to the head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture appropriate due to the place of storage declared with chrysanthemum. The rates of this aid were set at PLN 20 per unit for pot chrysanthemums, PLN 3 per unit for cut chrysanthemums. According to the agency's data today, 5972 chrysanthemum holders submitted applications for a total amount of PLN 86.7 million, of which 4883 agricultural producers submitted applications for a sum of PLN 77.3 million and 1089 entrepreneurs for a sum of PLN 9.4 million. At the same time, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture on its website provided information on the possibility of non-governmental organisations and local government units receiving these flowers free of charge and other public institutions which could submit such a notification by 12 November, as in the case of producers or entrepreneurs, to the head of the district office of the competent agency due to the place of the preferred reception by chrysanthemum. As regards chrysanthemums which were not received by entities authorised to apply for those chrysanthemums by 16 November, the holder shall immediately give them as biowaste to the operator in accordance with the waste collection or treatment rules or to the body designated by the Director of the National Agricultural Support Centre. The list of these entities is available on the website of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Great. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: That concludes - the chrysanthemum holder is... Happy. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: ...to provide the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture with a statement of receipt by NGOs, local government units and other eligible entities or to transfer them as bio-waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u406	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you would like to add? No, thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, Minister. Mrs Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. I'd like to ask you a question politely. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports, Minister Wanda Zwinogrodzka will answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that it is important to take care of culture and, especially in difficult times, to help cultural creators, because whether we have a culture will depend on what society we will be, what kind of people we will be, how Poland will develop. A great controversy in society was raised by the Cultural Support Fund - not because this fund is, just because information about unclear criteria and rules for the distribution of this money has reached the public. In addition, such a form, which was not consulted with the environment, caused an aversion to the environment of people of culture, but also internal disputes. This is a very dangerous situation, because something that was supposed to happen to help, something that the environment is waiting for, which is very needed and should be urgently paid, has caused very awkward, bad social conflicts. Today, indeed, the Ministry of Culture has put on its website basic questions and answers to these questions, but it is again very laconic, very vague and very vague answers, and both we here in the Sejm expect, as well as citizens and people of culture expect clear explanations. as to how these funds were allocated when they reach the institutions or those who need this support, who evaluated and on what principles. As long as we don't get this straightened out, this good idea of a support fund is gonna raise big doubts. I hope that the Minister will explain to us more widely that the explanation will be wider than what the Ministry of Culture has put up today. Maybe I'll remind you right away: Mrs. Katarasińska...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u408	Yes, Mrs Iwona Sledzińska-Catarasinska. I invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm just gonna fill in here and point out some things that are really unclear. Tell me, who in the ministry came up with the idea that the cultural institution, which is the theatre? Is the philharmonic, that's exactly the same as the company, which is the impresar agency, and that it (the bell) can be thrown into one bag by applying the same rules? As a second question, Mr. Marshal, because that's how you... Okay? We're gonna finish this. You're welcome. I'm sorry. So this lack of division into categories has caused a lot of misunderstandings, and I think it hurt this project. That's once. Two. I have this question because I don't really know: does this fund work yet? Minister Gliński froze him, but then he said that the new list wouldn't be that it's actually some kind of promil that's wrong, so it's gonna change manually. So I would like to know: when will this fund be launched and is it already frozen? I would also like to say that when the Committee of Culture was working on this law on 14 August, 3/4 of the committee's meetings took up my questions, supported by legislators, why the proposal refers to a regulation and there is no framework for this regulation, why it is not known that a fund is to be created at all. We are happy, but what he will be, what his role will be, how he will work and for whom he will be - it was not really known. When we asked why only music, dancing and theater, because such fields were mentioned, it was said: because it will fit in or in other discs it will be. The Ministry of Culture had a lot of time to prepare this fund, and it seems to me, Minister, I regret to say that despite the efforts of the Institute of Rashewski and the Institute of Music and Dance, the entire program has been badly prepared and even worse sold. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u410	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u411	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As you may remember, the Cultural Support Fund was created in response to environmental demands after the first lockdown and these demands were formulated in the face of difficulties that arose back to the normal functioning of the institutions, but also companies associated with the industry. The formal announcement and recruitment of this fund coincided with the second wave of illness, which showed whether or not underlined his burning need. However, it should be noted that the purpose of this fund was mainly to activate the market in an area particularly affected by the pandemic, i.e. where events or events could not take place due to lack of audience, or could take place to a very limited extent, even after these sharpenings were reduced. And that's how the idea came to be that these would be the three themes: music, theater and dance, i.e. those where there was no audience or only a partial audience affected these projects particularly strongly. The purpose of this fund was, as I stress, to activate these areas of the artistic industry. They weren't strictly aid or social targets. For such purposes, e.g. social, there are separate instruments launched in the ministry, and it is similar when it comes to patronising culture. I mention this because these criteria have been mixed up in the debate on this subject. I would like to disagree with the statement that the criteria were unclear. The criteria were published in the contest notice and they could all be known and even needed to be known if you were an applicant. These were different criteria for different groups. Here I answer the question of putting it in one bag. In a sense, yes - in terms of the general name of the fund, method of recruitment, etc. On the other hand, the groups that the fund was supposed to meet - i.e. local culture institutions, NGOs, entrepreneurs and finally stage technicians, which were also included there - were divided into categories and in these categories were slightly different criteria, differently counted and sometimes different, and different verification. The Fund was consulted with the environment. In general, his concept was created at the Theatre Institute among experts representing all theatrical environments - this is a band very much, so to speak, widely covering theatrical environments - but this fund has been expanded on the fields of dance and music. It was subject to public consultation, but this content of the Council of Ministers regulation was consulted publicly. They participated in the consultations, among others. Polish Chamber of Estrada Technology, Association of Organizers Art and Entertainment Events, Chamber of Economic Managers of Polish Artists. The fund was operated by the Theatre Institute and the Institute of Music and Dance. The kind of... It is difficult for me to give a brief answer to the question of who judged this and what principles he followed. This was assessed by expert teams of these institutes according to criteria that were published and are still available on websites. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In short, I can say that these were the following criteria: a drop in revenue, a share of revenues from music activities... Yes. We We know these criteria, Minister. Okay, I understand you're aware of that. As far as the deadline is concerned, in connection with the discussion which indicated whether, I would say, it made a very public statement - sometimes completely unfounded - part of these allegations... Some of the charges have even been dropped publicly. The authors withdraw some of these allegations, but since there was a suspicion that some companies or applicants may have reported these data incorrectly... We actually relied on declarations. This is, moreover, the principle that aid is allocated throughout Europe. It just allows you to run it quickly. This was then to be verified at the clearing stage. You should have counted those declarations back then. As the issue was raised that many companies may have reported both the level of losses and their condition and the ability to act unfairly, the Minister of Culture has therefore decided to re-examine these requests. That's 2064 conclusions. Unfortunately, this trial will take some time. We regret it ourselves. Any conclusions? We hope that we will be able to do this within the next week. I think that's all the questions. Yes. I'm sure it's gone all the time. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Wanda Zwinogrodzka: The question was, does it work? It will work as soon as the process of verifying applications is complete. I can tell you right away that it's been verified to a small extent for the time being. The Minister spoke of this, confirms the allegations made concerning specific entities. We will begin the implementation procedure when this verification is completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u412	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Coronavirus has been hitting the economy from the outset, and this has also been translated directly into domestic budgets. Many families' finances have suffered, which may result in difficult financial liquidity that translates, for example. for debt in rent and problems with its current payment. The various shields that function today are an invaluable form of real support. In view of the difficult period to predict, the next form of aid may be rent subsidies, which will be available to the tenants of cooperative, ownership, municipal housing, as well as those who rent apartments on the free market. The condition for obtaining such assistance could be, for example, the right to a housing allowance. In view of the above, I would like to ask: Is the Ministry planning to take action in the near future, which will result in the possibility of obtaining rent subsidies, for example. Depending on the revenue generated? If so, I would ask you to clarify who would be the first to be included in this program? Thank you. Thank you very much. She corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Anna Kornecka. You're welcome, Minister. Will the Member ask an additional question? I think there will be an exhaustive answer, and it will be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u414	Great. I'm sure of it, sir. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question concerns the payment of rent to persons who have been financially affected by the pandemic. Legislative work is currently underway on the draft law amending certain laws supporting the development of housing, Senate printing No 251. The draft law sets out, among others, the following: the rules for the granting of housing allowances plus rent payments. The way in which the appropriations for the payment of these payments are to be cleared has also been defined. The benefits in the form of a housing allowance plus the rent payment, because that is the name of the legal institution provided for in this Act, will be addressed according to the project to tenants and sub-renters of dwellings. The aim of this form of aid is to support tenants who have lost or partially lost their income as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic, e.g. as a result of the loss of employment, the temporary suspension of the activities of undertakings resulting in a lack of remuneration or a reduction of it. The rent surcharge, which increases the housing allowance, is intended to minimise the risk of loss of liquidity for tenants and, consequently, to prevent any loss of residence and eviction rights. The bill is at the stage of legislative work in the Senate. The apartment allowance plus the rent payment shall be granted to renters and sub-renters of dwellings if, in addition to the conditions required for the grant of the housing allowance, they fulfil the following conditions: the average monthly income per household member shall be at least 25% lower than the average monthly income achieved in 2019, the applicant for the apartment allowance either hired or sub-rented a dwelling before 14 March 2020, the applicant for the housing allowance had not previously received an apartment allowance plus a rent payment. The allowance will be granted on application submitted no later than 31 March 2021 and the applicant will have to attach in addition to documents which are normally required to submit an application for an apartment allowance, additional declarations of income for 2019, a declaration of fulfilment of the conditions, i.e. the conditions for renting or sub-renting the premises before 14 March 2020, as well as documents confirming the monthly rent paid by the applicant plus the rent payment. The maximum amount of the housing allowance plus the surcharge will be 75% monthly rent paid by the tenant, not more than PLN 1500. At the same time, the bill assumes that if the monthly rent paid by the tenant is higher than on 14 March 2020, the amount of the housing allowance plus the surcharge will be fixed as at 14 March 2020. The amount of the aid will be the difference between the apartment allowance granted plus the aid and the amount of the housing allowance that would be granted under the Housing Supplements Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u417	A very exhausting answer, but I just wanted to ask briefly... So not too exhausting... Rent also sometimes consists of fees for various media, for heat. Will any subsidies be considered for this: energy charges, gas?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u418	You failed to answer fully, you see, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u419	Yeah, I'll add that then. The aid is first addressed to tenants and sub-tenants of apartments and, in this respect, the rent payments are provided for. Therefore, the tenant is obliged to submit documents confirming the monthly rent paid by the applicant plus this fee. Therefore, if the rent or fees also include other expenses, then this allowance will reduce them. On the other hand, this is in principle the case of rent or sub-rent of apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome. It's gone so fast now, isn't it? He is responsible, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, for the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 16 100 - the number of deaths in the first full week of November 2020. A year ago, in a comparable period, this figure was 7600. So we're talking about an increase of as much as 112%. The truth is, these statistics are not covered by COVID data. Slide, please. 2/3 of those who are shown, who appear in the statistics of deaths, did not have to die. The statistics on seniors are very disturbing. I'd like another slide. If we look at the statistics on deaths in terms of older people, this is 20 977 within 3 weeks of November 2020, and we compare this with 2019, these figures have absolutely no coverage in the COVID statistics presented by the government. Those death statistics... Actually, these aren't statistics, these are people who are dying because the system is inefficient, because the ambulance isn't coming, people are dying because there are no scheduled treatments, people are dying because the health system collapsed. I'd like to know from the Ministry of Health what you guys are thinking about what you're doing about it. What are you doing to stop this situation so that today Polish seniors, older people simply do not die massly? Because the truth is that they die because of you, they die because the health system collapsed, they die because the system doesn't work, they die because the ambulance doesn't come, they die because there are no scheduled treatments, they die because there's no chemotherapy, they die because the hospitals don't work (the bell), they die because you haven't prepared Poland to face the epidemic for six months. That's the only thing you promised to pay for. You swore to defend yourself. You're talking about protecting lives - what do you call this situation? That's life protection? These aren't people who died of COVID, these are people who died because you didn't act the right way. 10,000. Older people aged 60 and 70 did not have to die during these last weeks. You're a member, and you're also responsible. It died because the system you created didn't work, and it died because of your very, very many omissions. I'd like to know what the Ministry of Health is doing in this case to change this situation, and do you? Do you even follow these statistics in any way? This is a special situation, the nation is dying in front of us because you haven't prepared health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u422	Thank you. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u423	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for asking. The Central Statistical Office has recently, as always, published weekly data on the number of people, the number of deaths in Poland, broken down by five-year periods by macro-region, by regions and sub-regions and by gender. It's transmitted on a monthly basis. This statistical, or demographic and age-related information can be analysed reliably today, because these are the data that are published. However, the main information that we do not have today, because this is a public statistics that we do not have access to, because it cannot be kept up to date, is information about the causes of death. This information about the causes of death is transmitted once a month to a centre that prepares the list of causes of death, encodes it on the basis of a death card prepared by a doctor, which is transmitted to the civil status office and then after the end of the period, after a month, is transmitted to the centre in Olsztyn. We will have complete data on the causes of death only in January 2022. January? In January 2022, because this is public statistics. According to this, only then will we be able to know what those people died of. As of today, of the data we have, we know on an ongoing basis what were the causes of the direct, secondary and initial deaths of people in hospital care units, because this is how medicinal entities account for the National Health Fund. Cause of death is always reported at each end of hospitalisation or in the event of death. In this respect, the National Health Fund has full data and can analyze them, but these are not complete data because most people die in non-hospital mode. Therefore, we do not have a full range of data. The State Department of Hygiene is preparing the data it has, which it has access to from the National Health Fund, but we will only have a full range later, as I said, when this data is transmitted by the Central Statistical Office. Then we'll be able to get full information about these causes too. At the same time, we see the situation. As you said, there has been a significant increase in deaths since October. In this earlier period, actually since September, growth was minimal and since October - important. How'd we get ready? 'Cause you're saying there's no reason for it except for the government. Of course, it is not true that the number of infections depends only on the government, because it depends mainly on social behaviour, maintaining distance. Everyone is responsible for the spread of the virus. I say, except for those infected COVIDs. As far as the health system is concerned, we know that a large part of the staff is also infected. Not all (the bell) centers work planned, properly, to the full extent. Their situation is worse because there are fewer medical and medical and nursing staff available. That's a fact, too. Maybe you should have tested the medical staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u424	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u425	High Izbo! I'll admit, I'm just shocked and shocked. After September 1, she died, except for those who died of COVID, over 20,000. Poles. And we found out here today that the government doesn't even know what's going on. There's no statistics. In a few months, there will be data on the causes of death, and this increase, which can only be enjoyed by funeral establishments, continues. Thousands more will die for unknown reasons. Of course, everyone knows that there are no other factors like those resulting from the fact that the health system does not work properly. You've basically been transforming hospitals. And what happened? There's practically half the internship gone. How is that possible? I'd say one day in this Seym [[♪ The bell ♪]] There will be a committee that will explain how you have prepared for the second phase of the pandemic, because this is a scandal, so that there is no data, there is no recognition, there were no remedies. The Minister admitted: we know nothing and do nothing about it. This can't be right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u426	Thank you, sir. Minister, do we have new data or not? I don't think so. I can tell by you. Did you get any new data for that minute? We want to hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u427	What I'm trying to say is that the state statistics can't change... You've already mentioned that, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: ...because it's a regulation, it's a bill. The plan is uniform and this data cannot be collected. Let people die. You can't collect death data directly on your own. Minister, just a second, because you've changed the COVID laws a dozen times. About state statistics... Good. But answer me, because this is some kind of... But the Minister answers. As far as state statistics are concerned, this is a statistics that is independent, we cannot download individual data directly from people who report death, and we do not download this data. It's a statistics independent of the government, going to the civil status office. All the data are entered at the civil status office and we have all the information that is being transmitted on an ongoing basis. The issue of the death card is kept up to date with the Ministry of Digitalization and also on an ongoing basis with the Central Statistical Office. And these data are published on an ongoing basis by the Central Statistical Office. But the death card filled out by the doctor, the authorized person is scanned and goes directly to the subject in Olsztyn, who enters the data with delay. And these data are only transmitted after one year, after the end of the year, or after 13 months, after the end of the year. There's no record of that before. And that's always the state statistics. Only then can this data be obtained for scientific research and for various studies, for various... For research? There's got to be a way out of this. We will counter by organizing a health care system so that it is available, as much as possible. And we started it. But if there's no data, how? We have launched basic health care very strongly throughout the holiday period. Interna's gone. The Internet is everywhere. And does the Ministry of Health know there's no one to report deaths right now? They're here. When it comes to finding deaths... Mr. Marshal, is this a loose discussion? ...there's still a system like it's been so far, which is basic health care doctors... Which means he's inefficient. There's no one to report death. There's a difficult situation... There it is. The situation is that the finding of death is the same as it has been so far. Voivodeships are responsible for providing a doctor who claims to be dead. They specifically allocated additional funds to ensure that the deaths are kept up-to-date, so that the people who drive in every district... There are two in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. In Poznań recently... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u428	Madam, the questions can only be asked by those who have been submitted. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this, you must ask this question in 13 months' time. Was it worth it, Marshal? It's worth it. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The Minister of Health, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Maciej Miłkowski, will answer, whom we have already met. Miss... There it is. You're welcome. Hello, ma'am. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u429	Hello. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we know, since spring, unfortunately, the whole world, including Poland, has been subject to a pandemic. We have all kinds of problems. Therefore, not only Poland, but also other countries suffer from a shortage of doctors. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the Ministry of Health prepares new medical staff, what it looked like to recruit medical institutions until 2015 and what the Ministry of Health changed after 2015 to improve the situation. This situation has not now only emerged because the Civic Platform has abolished vocational training and there have been difficulties in accessing specialisation since the end of medical studies. This problem has grown. I know that, as far as I was concerned, the Ministry has made very good preparations, and has prepared solutions. I'd like the Minister to answer that. I would also like to know whether the Ministry has introduced new medical professions and courses of education and whether the current professional specialisation in the COVID era is in some way at risk or not. Does the Ministry have any solutions in this regard? And such a question that goes beyond education here, in Poland, which I would also like to address to the Minister: Do you plan to simplify procedures for obtaining medical professionals from abroad, e.g. Ukraine? 'Cause I know this process is pretty important, too. Is it at this point when the whole world is struggling with different... We know that foreign people would like to work with us. Is the Ministry considering this possibility? I wanted to thank the Ministry of Health once again publicly for their hard work, because a lot of people were saved. Really, both handing over all the medical personnel... But also the Ministry of Health is constantly monitoring the situation and for this, Minister, I wanted to thank you very much and to thank you also from the inhabitants of Silesia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u430	Thank you very much. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I'm sure the Minister will respond quickly. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u431	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen... Five minutes. The Minister has five minutes. Ma'am, she's got five minutes, but because of your Marshal Sejm's decision, you're sitting here and I'm sitting here at an hour. 2.10. So if the Minister has reason in him outside of five minutes, and I can see in the back that he does, then I understand he'll answer in a minute. There you go. Mr. Marshal, do you want me to come in with a formal motion? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much. Ma'am, I'll behave like Marshal Witek and the other Marshal. You don't have a voice. Mr. Marshal... I'm picking up your voice. There you go. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Dear Marshal, Thank you very much for this question. In fact, medical staff are the most important assets, you can say, the most important resources in the health system. It is thanks to it that we have a good and efficient health system, one of the best education systems in Europe. A lot of people want to learn, educate, and many people come to Poland and we are known as Poland. In this recent period, actually since 2016, we have been paying very much attention to the fact that we are training a significantly larger number of staff of every kind - both doctors and nurses and pharmacists. As far as doctors are concerned, in 2015 there were 4400 people in the medical field, in 2020 - 5830 Polish students in the Polish language course. That's an increase of 32%. This is mainly due to the fact that we have significantly increased the number of universities they educate - from 15 universities in 2015 to 22 universities in 2020. We know, of course, that we cannot catch up very quickly with the shortcomings in this system, because it is calculated for at least 12 years. This is how long it takes to train a specialist from the beginning of college, because it is 6 years of study, then 13 months of internship and later about 5 years of specialization. Now what you were talking about. There's always been a problem with getting specialized, there's always not enough money for specialization. Many people have waited many years to make specializations. For some time now, practically every person who graduates has the opportunity to specialize. Moreover, the Ministry has made priority specialisations in those areas which are most important in the health system, where there are least medical and nursing staff, and these places are better paid. Moreover, the Ministry also increased the remuneration of residents from PLN 3200 to PLN 5 000 respectively. zł; at the same time, 600.700 zł, depending on the type of residency, can be obtained if the resident declares that he will later work in Poland. Of course, it is also necessary to say that universities also teach English, but here the number is similar to what it has been so far, which is mainly increasing the number of Polish-speaking students. When it comes to training nurses, there is a similar situation. There were 77 universities earlier, this number increased and there are 106 of them. In fact, the number of nurses in education is increasing. In the last year, 7800 people were admitted to primary school and 6500 were admitted to upper secondary school. Previously, it was 4800 and 3100 respectively. The Ministry introduced a multi-annual policy plan for the development of nursing staff last year and is very active in this area. An agreement has been signed that increases the salaries of nurses (the bell) and midwives. It has also now been agreed that we will continue this agreement also for the future period. This is not only the case with medical personnel, but also doctors, because on December 31 the term of the Act for Doctors, which...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u433	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for the information you provided, but I would ask for additional information about what we talked about here. If I may, I would like to receive in writing data, how many doctors were educated in 2015 at Polish universities, how many in 2019 - unless today you have such information. And the same thing about nurses - how many were trained then, and also how many doctors who did specializations, also in 2015 and 2019. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you an additional question about the supplement for doctors who are fighting COVID, fighting on the front line, who are sacrificially serving people who are suffering, being infected and risking their lives. Who and who is currently receiving the supplement (the bell) and how high is this supplement? Is this the 100 percent supplement we were talking about, and is it just doctors or nurses, and so are medical paramedics getting this supplement, and how long are they gonna be receiving it? Thank you. Thank you very much. The Minister has informed you that he will inform you in writing. Madam, we are going to the next question and you are asking the question again. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, the Minister has this in writing when it comes to numbers, and when it comes to additions, you ask yourself that too. You're talking about not publishing the bill, about us taking... Ma'am, I'm not the Minister, I'm just... I would very much ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u434	Do you still want to answer? Yeah, 30 seconds. All right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u435	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Yes, additional salaries have been paid all the time since April. The legal basis has changed. In April this was, in accordance with the COVID Act, an order from the Minister to the President of the National Health Fund. For today... In September the order of the President of the National Health Fund was changed, twice was, last November 1st. The additional remuneration is 100% the remuneration of the person concerned, not more than 15 000. zł, for persons who perform medical profession in the second and third level of hospital protection, it is also the COVID laboratories, the entire system of State Medical Rescue, staff of emergency rooms, ambulances. So that all these people are getting it so far. At the end of October, 180 million PLN was secured in the National Health Fund plan and this does not include November and December. The NFZ is paying these salaries to these personnel on an ongoing basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u436	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u437	Thank you, Marshal. The question to another minister, but in the same way, is that we have a pandemic, and we've had it since spring. I wanted to ask the Minister about the involvement of the Treasury companies in the aid. We know that at the beginning of the pandemic we all struggled with such fundamental problems as the lack of suits, the lack of masks, and then the Treasury companies started to help. Luckily, these companies, well-managed, had a lot to do with everything. I am very glad that during this difficult time, when the masks and not only the masks are not missing, while the equipment is missing, there are no ventilators, there are no beds, there are no places where they can be treated for COVID, given the number of infections, I am very happy that today we can count on companies of the Treasury. I'm very happy yesterday when the Minister was in my district. An additional hospital was opened there thanks to the company Tauron and Krynica can count on additional places. But not just Krynica. I'm from Gorlicka County. The inhabitants of Gorlicka County, the Sądecki district, can count on their seats. And I wanted to ask the Minister: How many places will be in this newly opened temporary hospital in Krynica and how many companies of the Treasury behave during this period, how much aid can we all expect from these companies?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. The Treasury companies supervised by the Minister of State Assets already in the first phase of the pandemic became involved in helping Poles, they became involved in aid for health care and it was a big aid, because it amounted to about PLN 200 million. Once again we have seen that capital has nationality, and in fact in this action we have seen first and foremost Polish entities, entities with Polish capital. Now, in the second phase of the pandemic, state Treasury companies - nine companies supervised by the Ministry of Assets - and the state bank responded to the Prime Minister's appeal, responded to the Minister of State Assets' appeal and organized several hospitals across the country. It will be both Mazowsze, Małopolska, which Mrs Kujawy spoke about, as well as Silesia, Dolny Śląsk, Gdańsk, Poznań and Kujawy. So practically all over Poland there will be temporary hospitals, a total of about 3 thousand. places for sick people. Today the Prime Minister said that we would all be happy if we didn't have to use these places to the extent we planned, because this is the kind of insurance policy we are buying out for the health and life of Poles. Every responsible government must be prepared for such a dark hour. I reply to you: We did open a hospital in Krynica the day before yesterday. This hospital was founded in less than three weeks, from the Prime Minister's decision to the opening of this hospital only three weeks. For me personally, this is the lesson that should be taught in crisis situations, the lesson of how a functioning state performs its duties. I think that's what it's supposed to be like. And I want to tell you one more thing: this hospital will be used in any situation. Even if the number of diseases has decreased, we will be able to talk about it with the hospital director - to move the lighter patients there to release the COVID troops that were created in other hospitals, and in this way to increase the treatment of other diseases that we have not stopped suffering from. So this is very important. Mr Tomczyk alleged that there was no preparation for health care. On the other hand, we often hear from you: Why are you building temporary hospitals if they may not be filled? So, ladies and gentlemen, make up your mind. We certainly will not tell the Poles that they should be insured. We insured Poles, we bought this insurance policy - and so the wise country does. Thank you very much. Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u440	Thank you. Member, another question, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u441	Yeah, yeah. It's an hour. 2.35. Minister! Thank you very much for this response and thank you also for this commitment on the part of all the elements of the state, including companies of the Treasury. It is not a coincidence that the composition of this question is because I ask this question also on behalf of colleagues, or actually the whole Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, but the people who have raised this question are from Małopolska and Silesia, where this number of diseases in the last period was the largest, which is why we are very happy that this help is. On this occasion I must also say that the commitment of our Małopolska voivodeship at this difficult time is so effective that no one... Well, at least I don't know anything about it, so somebody's gotta run out of room, and that's a lot of disease. On the other hand, there is another question that the Minister himself raised, that these places, these hospitals, what has now been built, will also be used later. It is the companies of the State Treasury that involve their capital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like these places, this money will be used after the end of the pandemic, which, I hope, we all hope, will come?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u442	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This project is implemented in such a very cost-effective way. Krynica's example is the best. Ladies and gentlemen, these invested funds, these equipment, these ventilators, as well as these beds - they will be in the hospital where they were installed, and will serve the residents, will serve the inhabitants of Krynica, will serve the inhabitants of the voivodship. I must tell you that several hospitals will be organized in the container formula. We've also thought about what we're going to do with these containers in a few months, like, hopefully, the pandemic is over. Because these containers will be used by the Polish Army, they will be used in hospitals, which the military plans to organize anyway. So we are also thinking about the future and it will be well spent funds of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u444	Thank you for thinking about the future. Please, Mr Mariusz Trepka. And he will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Anna Chałupa. Mr Trepka and I are connected. Welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u445	Good evening. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since 26 October 2020, a new model of service for taxpayers has been launched in five voivodships. This is an electronic service that will enable taxpayers to set up a visit to the tax office. The service will increase the comfort of handling matters at the office with safety guidelines, which is particularly important in the current situation and for which I thank you. Dear Minister, In view of the above, I would like to ask: Since when will such a model cover the whole country? How do I make an appointment for a visit and what deadlines? Have there been surveys among taxpayers? It's about how taxpayers react to a new service. What things can be done online with this service? And are these all available matters that can be dealt with personally? Thank you, and I'm asking for your answer. Will the Member still have an additional question? I think the answer will be very comprehensive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u446	Cool, 'cause it's half past three. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The service of setting up visits to the tax office was launched at the turn of May and June in Podlaskie Voivodeship. Then, too, after this piloting, surveys were conducted among taxpayers from this voivodship, which showed that 77% the respondents considered that the earlier reservation of the visit improves the efficiency of the service and also increases the safety of the COVID situation in which we are in, as well as 72% persons have stated that the electronic form is understandable and legible to taxpayers. Thus we found that this service should be implemented in all voivodships. And so in July it started in the tax offices of the Wielkopolska voivodship, in October joined five other voivodships: Dolnośląskie, Lubuskie, Opolskie, Śląskie and Warmińsko-Mazurskie, and since Monday 16 November this model already includes all tax offices throughout Poland, in all voivodships. Visits to the office can be arranged in three convenient ways: either via the Internet - this can be done by means of an electronic form available on the tax website. gov.pl - or on the website of its tax office. This can also be done by phone via the telephone number available on the tax office's website, where we want to arrange a visit, or by coming to the tax office during your personal visit to a point called: Making appointments and which is close to the entrance to the office. The office appointment service is dedicated to taxpayers who wish to visit the office personally, so when using it we do not settle the matter online, we just make an appointment. On the other hand, when it comes to services for which an appointment may be made, a catalogue of the most expected services from the client's point of view has been proposed to taxpayers, and this is not a closed catalogue, because if the taxpayer does not find the service directly interesting to him, he has the possibility to enter the tab: Other description of the matter with which he wants to come to the tax office. This way, of course, he can register in any case necessary for himself by giving the date, time of his visit, the taxpayer gives his personal data, also indicates a convenient date for himself and to the e-mail address indicated, it will also be a text message from next year, we receive confirmation of the visit, information regarding the day, hour, specific position, room, person to whom we are to go to the tax office. Depending on the category chosen, an employee of the tax office also makes a call to the taxpayer to determine what documents the taxable person is going to bring to the office so that it is indeed a one-time visit to the office to settle his case. In conclusion, the principle is directly that the taxpayer reserves the visit. We have changed our approach to direct service in offices and thus minimise the risk of possible spread of Coronavirus among customers and employees. We also evenly distribute the number of taxpayers served on a daily basis and thus avoid the accumulation of people on small areas. In addition, the application allows you to optimally dedicate the staff resources of the tax authorities to the service of taxpayers, as well as improve the quality of service by adjusting the amount of time for each interested person and preparing individually for the specific matter with which the taxpayer comes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u448	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws (print No 719). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber to present the reasons for the bill, and reasonableness tells me that I am asking for a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several sentences literally about the bill amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws contained in print No 719. This proposal is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of March of the previous year. The Court held that the existing system for the authorisation of single axle vehicles in Poland to 11,5 t should be considered contrary to the provisions of Council Directive 96/53/EC of July 1996. The scope of the amendments to the draft law is limited only to the full adaptation of Polish law to this EU regulation. The scope of the changes concerns two opposing interests, on the one hand, the carriers which carry out road transport, on the other hand this judgment is the result of a complaint lodged by carriers to the European Commission and, on the other hand, road managers who, since the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, had to allow vehicles with a single axle load of up to 11,5 t on their roads, regardless of their technical condition. On the other hand, the regulations prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure introduce a number of fuses, which is why the local authorities gave a positive opinion on this project at the meeting of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, there will be more time to talk about the details of this project. I ask the High House to make a positive reference to the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u450	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear the wounds of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Tomasz Ławniczak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Court of Justice of the European Union on 19 March 2019 issued a ruling stating that the current law of the Republic of Poland concerning the provisions of the Public Road Act concerning the requirement to have special permits for the movement, in particular heavy vehicles belonging mostly to transport undertakings, on certain public roads is failing to comply with Union law. Legislative changes are therefore necessary to bring national legislation into line with Union law. The draft law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws contains 22 articles and 1 annex and provides for amendments to 5 laws. Namely, these are the laws on public roads, the Law on road traffic, the Fund on Local Roads, the Code of Administrative Procedure, and finally the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. When considering the proposed changes, attention should be paid to the substantive context, namely that in Poland we have 424.5 thousand. public roads, including 19 400 km of national roads, or 4.6% , and 405 100 km of local roads, i.e. voivodship, district and commune, with ca. 121 thousand. public roads are local land roads for which regulations remain unchanged. The most important changes to the project concern the Public Road Act and, when implementing EU law, introduce, inter alia, the repeal of statutory delegations to issue regulations limiting traffic on national and voivodeship roads to 8 and 10 t per axle; they include a provision implementing the European Directive of 1996 laying down cases where restrictions on the movement of vehicles with a single axle under pressure on public roads can be introduced up to 11,5 t, with the exception of national roads managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, road signs and local law; finally, exceptions to the possibility of applying traffic bans of vehicles with a permissible pressure of 11,5 t on the axis of both the concerned nature, i.e. These will be roads built with the participation of the European Union as well as the subject matter, e.g. uniformed service vehicles. In addition, the Act provides for amendments to the Road Traffic Law concerning the authorisation of non-normative vehicles and the amendment of the definition of a non-normative vehicle itself. In turn, the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund provides for the introduction of an additional criterion for assessing applications for funding taking into account the adaptation of the road to the traffic of vehicles with a permissible pressure of a single driving axle of 11,5 t. It should be noted that Directive 96/53/EC is already applicable in other countries. The project was widely consulted, as Minister Weber said, was the subject of a joint government and territorial government committee, and a special team was set up, which issued a positive opinion on a circular basis. The law will most likely have a positive impact on the labour market. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will support the amendments proposed in the law implementing EU law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u452	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws contained in print No 719. The need to bring Polish legislation into line with EU rules is directly due to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Among other things, it was decided that by requiring transport companies to have special permits for driving on certain public roads of vehicles with a pressure of 11,5 t/axes, Poland violated Community rules. The Civic Coalition does not question the need to bring Polish legislation into line with EU rules. On the other hand, doubts are raised by quite narrowly defined criteria to limit traffic of heavy vehicles on public roads, especially on municipal, district and voivodeship roads. At present, the free movement of vehicles with a pressure of 11,5 t/axis is possible in principle only on national roads and covers a total of 3% All roads. After the shift, it'll be 70%. To a large extent, this change will apply to local roads. They are therefore not surprised by the doubts expressed in this respect by local authorities, e.g. The Union of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland or the Union of Powiat Polskie. It is indicated that changes involving the entry into service of vehicles with a single axle of up to 11.5 t on all public roads will expose local authorities to additional costs, for example, of changing the labelling of the whole road network and significantly increasing the number of road signs. There are no conditions that would determine how roads can be adjusted to carry the above pressures and introduce e.g. the transitional period. Its absence will in turn make it impossible to take steps related to the proper preparation of the infrastructure. We believe that it is necessary to set an additional envelope which would allow for even partial financing by local authorities of these expenditures. Without such support related to the reconstruction, extension and renovation of roads on which heavy-duty vehicles will be permitted, due to the increase of this traffic, road infrastructure will be rapidly degraded, and in practice without modernization procedures a safety risk will be increased. Allowing vehicles with a pressure of up to 11.5 t/s on all public roads will result in the resignation of many carriers from toll roads and thus increase the traffic intensity, often already on high roads on lower categories. Two statutory conditions allowing the road to be excluded from service of vehicles with a 11,5 t/axis shall be met in combination and shall be set very narrowly. The draft law does not specify, even an estimated, the extent of the number of roads on which such prohibitions could be imposed. It must be strongly emphasised that the existing road network outside motorways, high-speed roads and the main national network and road sections from European Union funds have never been designed under such single axis pressures - 11.5 t. On the other hand, representatives of railway environments indicate that the planned increase in the length of the heavy transport network will not be without an impact on the volume of rail transport. The competitiveness of rail and inland waterway transport, which was to be an alternative to the overloaded road network, will deteriorate. The additional increase in heavy road transport is contrary to the White Paper on the European Union's transport policy. By 2030, 30% and by 2050. - more than 50%, freight transport over 300 km was to be transferred from roads to alternative means of transport. There is no mention of possible environmental damage. On a unit basis, rail transport emits nine times less carbon dioxide and eight times less air pollution than a truck. High Izbo! The adoption of the law in this form will fundamentally change the perception of public roads in Poland. The implementation of the TSUE judgment means the need to start a fundamental discussion in Poland about the standards for the conversion of the road network and how it is financed and financed by government funds. It is therefore necessary to discuss and examine in depth, to discuss the draft law, and therefore to direct the draft to work in committee, and this is the proposal on behalf of the club I am making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u454	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u455	Good morning, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo. I think we can say good morning now, 'cause farmers are about to get up. So you need to focus on the substance. I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government draft law amending the Public Road Act and some other laws. I'll start with a quote. It's a matter of whether or not our fate is in our hands. This is not a division between the right and left. This is a division between those who want the Polish people to decide for themselves, and those who want some officials in Brussels to decide our fate - this is what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about yesterday about the European Union's budget. And here comes the decision of the TEU, which we must introduce, and there is no problem. Polish law must be adapted to the judgment and that is what we must do. So, on the one hand, when there is something beneficial for the Law and Justice, it is good, if not, that bad Union. And this is where we hear it all the time. We need to bring it in. It is important that those who have paid the fee and the administrative penalty in advance, when these permits had to apply, have the money recovered and that all these issues be adjusted and fixed. We will support these issues and I will put an end to this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u456	Mr President, I do not know if you have heard these words today: I love you very much. One minute, cool. Question, Mr. Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u457	High Izbo! Soon we'll be in such a situation that heavy transport will actually be able to travel anywhere outside of the ground roads. And there will be dozens of cases when the municipalities will be able to introduce bans. This will cause these bans to occur every once in a while on public roads. This will create a whole network of different kind of traps, places where you can't just drive this transport. In this situation, it is astonishing that you are not introducing a longer vacathio legis here, so that the transport system of such a gigantic scale will have time to adapt to these changes, so that there are no such situations that there will be a ban every moment. So we're probably gonna have situations like these vehicles are gonna drive in and they're gonna be stuck out there, they're gonna be keying, so it's just gonna cause problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the category of these exemptions you forgot to add the rectory, because in fact every object can be banned at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u458	Thank you. I'd like to invite the Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes? So, what, we just let it go? Okay. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u459	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 March 2019 ensuring compliance of national legislation with EU law. The project concerns the ability to operate vehicles with a single axle load of up to 11,5 t without the need for authorisation, but which can be limited by the road manager or local authorities. The only exception will be ground roads where vehicles with a single axle up to 8 t can be operated because these roads do not meet the relevant load requirements. This criterion concerns as many as 29% of all public roads in Poland. Not all public roads meet technical standards that allow heavy vehicles to move on them (at risk of rapid destruction and frequent repairs). Therefore, traffic bans on vehicles with a pressure of up to 11,5 t can be introduced by the road manager or by a decision taken by the council of the municipality or city. In such a situation, the value discussed can be reduced, which in practice means that vehicles with a single driving axle can be allowed to operate up to 8 or 10 t. Roads with a surface other than bituminous, concrete, stone or clinker shall become under the standards prescribed in the design by roads with a single axle pressure of 8 t. Self-governments will be able to restrict the movement of heavy-duty vehicles under two statutory conditions at the same time: 1) when the technical condition of the road prevents heavy vehicles from moving on it with a single axle pressure of up to 11,5 t, 2) when the road takes place near areas or facilities where heavy vehicle traffic can have a particularly negative impact, e.g. runs or borders on a protected natural area, or is situated in the vicinity of residential buildings, kindergartens, spas or mining areas. The traffic ban will not be applicable to: 1) public roads (or sections thereof) on the trans-European road network, 2) national roads (or sections thereof), with the exception of national roads managed by city presidents on the rights of the county, 3) public roads (or sections thereof) which have been built or rebuilt with funds coming from the budget of the European Union, and the prohibition may not apply for 5 years from the date of the handover of the road or its section for use. As part of raising technical standards for district and municipal roads, an additional criterion was introduced in the application for funding from the Self-Government Road Fund - adjusting the road to the traffic of vehicles with permissible driving axle pressure to 11.5 t. What is important for transport operators, there are provisions that will result in the recovery of the fees and penalties paid (before the judgment of the TSUE) and the remission of authorisation proceedings or penalties for the absence of such authorisation (to the extent that they do not comply with the judgment of the TSUE). Carriers who have paid the fee and administrative penalty for the lack of authorisation before the judgment of the TSUE will have one month to submit an appropriate application (from the date of entry into force of the amended law) and to recover the money. There will be no need to obtain permits to drive a single axle up to 11.5 t, which means reducing red tape and costs. It will be possible to travel heavy vehicles without authorisation, e.g. for logistics or transhipment terminals. The new solutions are to apply after 60 days from the date of their publication in the Official Journal, except for the provisions which will enter into force after 14 days from the date of their publication - they concern the possibility of applying for reimbursement of fees and penalties paid before the judgment of the TSUE. The Left Club will vote in favour, but I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Infrastructure to solutions that should have been planned long ago and even implemented instead of such meaningless megalomaniac ideas as the Central Communication Port and the associated high-speed rail. I'm talking about moving a significant part of the road transport to the tracks. Such a solution would maintain road infrastructure in good condition, increase road safety and would also be extremely ecological.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u460	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws, contained in print No 719, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, is Minister Dalkowska in the room? As there is no Minister Dalkowska, we are not considering point 17. Oh, no! Right. Ladies and gentlemen, my name is not Minister Dalkowska, unfortunately. I'd love to... We're not taking a break because it's ten-three o'clock. Either someone takes their responsibilities seriously or they don't. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, wanted to make a statement. Are you Arthur Łącki? Thank you. Mr. Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2020 the 100th anniversary of its existence is celebrated by the Bydgoszcz Rowing Society, which was founded less than 2 months after the return of Bydgoszcz to its mother. It was one of the first such social initiatives taken in the liberated city. A permanent rowing company has entered into the history of our city. The players and the club's pupils won five Olympic medals, participated in the ten Olympic Games and won the Polish team championship seven times. A year after the club was formed, the club had its first headquarters. After 4 years Bydgoszcz had its renowned sports club with its own flag, seat and watercourse along with stands for the public. Being a member of the Bydgoszcz Rowing Society has been and is to this day a distinction for young people, a symbol of the brave spirit of the inhabitants of our city. The year 1926 brought a number of awards for the club in Poland and abroad. The club four won the European Championship Award and represented our homeland. Each year, the list of success of the company's players recorded themselves with golden reports in the history of Bydgoszcz. The year 1928 brought a number of victories, the most significant of which was the win of the bronze medal at the Olympic Games in Amsterdam. The medal for Poland and Bydgoszcz won an excellent four with a helmsman. It was the first medal in the Olympic Games for Polish rowing. The intensive activities of the BTW and subsequent sports successes gave Bydgoszcz the right to organize in 1929 the European Championship, which was a great honor for the city and gave the opportunity to show itself to the world audience. Another Olympics has brought more success. In 1932, our rowers raised their stakes: they brought two medals, brown and silver from Los Angeles. The period of war and the years of occupation resulted in a tragic balance of 30 victims among BTW members. They gave their lives to defend their homeland. The most successful teacher of the club is Teodor Kocerka, who won not only 19 titles of Polish champion in various competitions, but also was the academic world champion, European champion, twice the winner of the king's races in Henley and a participant in three Olympics, where he won two bronze medals. Therefore, it is not surprising that he was chosen as the rower of the 80th anniversary of the Polish Association of Rowing Associations. Medals and titles won in 2000 and 2020 cannot be counted as this is a list containing dozens of items. From here I can only apologize (the bell) to our wonderful rowers that I will not list them all here. However, I would like to thank everyone on behalf of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz very warmly for their efforts and dedication. I would also like to thank the activists and trainers of the Bydgoszcz Rowing Society for their educational, training and great heart devoted to all the players, the club's pupils. Hey, BTW!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u462	Thank you very much. Are you Iwona Hartwich? There isn't. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u463	Statement on the role of Józef Piłsudski in regaining independence by Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 102 years ago Poland regained independence after 123 years of partitions. Józef Piłsudski - a legendary figure, statesman, head of state, creator of the Polish Military Organization and Legions, played a great role in regaining independence. This role in the rebirth of the Polish state is invaluable, mainly because of outstanding strategic skills and the belief that independence is not something that can be won through diplomatic talks in European salons. In the opinion of Marshal Poland could return to the map of Europe just through mobilization, courage, patriotism and dedication. As he said: "The Poles want independence, but they would like this independence to cost two pennies and two drops of blood. And independence is not only a precious but a very expensive good. This does not mean that he lacked diplomatic skills. The political class was shown in 1917 at the time of the oath crisis. I remind you that the legionaries who refused to take an oath to allegiance to the Kingdom of Poland and to keep the brotherhood of arms to the troops of Germany and Austro-Hungarian were interned and Piłsudski was transported to Magdeburg. On November 10, 1918, Piłsudski returned to Warsaw as a triumphant. The next day, the Regency Council gave him superior power over the army and appointed him chief commander of Polish troops. Of course, the fathers of independence have several, besides Piłsudski: Roman Dmowski, Vincenty Witos, Wojciech Korfanty, Ignacy Daszyński, Ignacy Paderewski, Józef Haller and Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. The road to Polish independence was as many as its creators. Each one deserves a memorable memory. Józef Piłsudski was already a legendary figure in his lifetime. He left behind a lot of customs remarks about Poland and Poles; it is unusual that they fit perfectly to present times. One of the curses of our life, one of the curses of our state building, is that we have divided into several types of Poles, that we speak one Polish language, or even Polish words we understand that we raised among ourselves Poles of different species - taking into account the words of Marshal Piłsudski, I would like to wish that at least in Independence Day we were not Poles of different species, I would like this feast to unite us and not divide us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u464	Statement on the needs arising from the ongoing epidemic. The current pandemic is extremely difficult to overcome and requires a broad consolidation of society and an observation of the needs of those who are unable to cope on their own during this difficult period, and those who need particles of others. One of the main forms of help can certainly include current calls from blood donation centers in the field of obtaining plasma of healers, containing antibodies that can support the treatment of patients with COVID-19 with severe life-threatening symptoms of infection. This is not a complicated or painful process in any way, but it can save someone's life. Plasma is collected by plasmapheresis, during which blood taken from a vein is separated into plasma, which is stopped, and other blood components. The collected plasma is subjected to a pathogen reduction procedure, divided into doses of 100 and 200 ml and frozen. Depending on the plasma content of the neutralising antibodies to the virus with COVID-19, 200-400 ml of plasma is transfused. Another extremely necessary form of assistance is the appeals of local authorities to local residents, asking them to pay attention and help people who are lonely and older - seniors living in their neighbourhood. Seniors are a group of people for whom the coronavirus poses the greatest threat, which is why it is sometimes necessary, for example, to provide assistance in daily activities, e.g. in purchasing, as well as in communicating information to social assistance centres in municipalities about the need to provide assistance, support for people in need. May my statement serve as an appeal for joint consolidation, cooperation and self-giving. Let us work together to ensure that, at this difficult time, no one - and, above all, seniors, those in need of support - is left alone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-19-sejm-21-2.u465	The meeting shall be adjourned until 27 November 2020 at the latest. 10. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 02 min 55]]
