ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71476	Now we move to the announced agenda for today's session, which is 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 730. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71477	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me tell you in short lines what the changes are about when it comes to this final draft law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. It is adopted in order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, which is related to Chapter 3 of the right of business and freedom to provide services, and is drawn up in accordance with Directive 2005/36 of the European Community, i.e. the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. The Directive guarantees access to the same profession and the same rights for persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one Member State when performing that profession in another Member State as for nationals of that Member State. The directive aims to improve the rules of applicable qualification systems in the light of experience, while maintaining the principle of freedom guarantee, the business creation that is incorporated into these systems. By recognising the professional qualifications of Member States, the host shall allow the holder of the qualification to access the regulated profession for which he has been trained in the home Member State as well as to carry out such a profession under conditions which apply to its citizens. Under the regulated profession, professional activity or a group of professional activities where access and exercise, i.e. the way in which activities are carried out on the basis of legal acts or sublegal or other acts adopted on the basis of legal powers are directly or indirectly conditional upon the possession of certain professional qualifications as well as the professional activity or group of professional activities engaged in members of professional organisations with professional names. I'll remind you here, it's about seven regulated professions, which are doctors of medicine, doctor of dental medicine, master of pharmacies, nurse of general health care, midwife, veterinarian, and architect. Since these five health professions are covered by this proposal, the law removes ambiguities or clarifies provisions relating to regulated health professions, and the legislative provisions comply with the directive to the greatest extent possible. This document was done by two ministries, so the professional background was done by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and we were working on this technical and legal part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 29 of the Law, new provisions are added which stipulate that the Republic of Croatia, in order to carry out the activities of general family medicine, recognises the acquired right to a doctor of medicine who has the right to perform the activities of a doctor in general family medicine. Within the framework of the health care system of the Republic of Croatia at the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and what are the conditions for that recognition. The right acquired to a doctor of general family medicine is recognised on the basis of a valid authorisation for independent work issued by the Croatian Medical Chamber in accordance with the Law on Health Care and the Law on Medicine, and the further condition is that that person has a business establishment in general, or family medicine in the Republic of Croatia on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. This bill also prescribes the content of the need for a doctor in general, i.e. family medicine issued by the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Ministry of Health and Social Care will issue a certificate if requested by the applicant and the confirmation will confirm that this person has completed a university, a medical study, that he has really and legally worked in the activities of general or family medicine in primary health care as an employee or self-employed person, that he had a business residence in the Republic of Croatia until the date of admission of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. In addition, according to the European Commission's proposal, the law states that training in special training and general medicine includes, among other things, a full-sighted programme, but it is clear that the duration of such a programme is at least three years. Of course, the programme must be implemented under the supervision of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. It's final. This proposal also introduces explicit and nomotechnical improvements in the text of the law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Allow, at the end of the respected MPs and MPs, to thank all members of the home Committee on Education, Science and Culture, as well as the Committee on Health in the Croatian Parliament who have made valuable suggestions that we will, of course, keep in mind and try to realise in the next period. So the chairman of the parent board, Professor Selem and Vice-President Rajko Ostojic, warned of changes in the curricula that are of course necessary. They also warned of the need to increase the registration quotas because the moment we become a member of the European Union to expect that some of these regulated professions will be found in some other countries, so we must make sure that we welcome the possible partial depletion of the staff. It is equally possible that especially when it comes to doctors, we will have those who may even be using the weekend, and we will go to other countries, and then in our health care itself, it would not be the most convenient place to welcome it unprepared. It is equally cautioned to say that in medicine in Zagreb we also have a study in English, it has been warned that, not so much in the first three years, but in the fourth year, it becomes a bit of a problem to learn Croatian language, but I have to tell you here that we have a great cooperation with the Faculty of Philosophy, which within the framework of the croatika, all foreigners who want to teach Croatian language and very successfully, so these are programs that are then turned to students like this. Because the moment a doctor, a future doctor, comes to the fourth year, he is in a position to talk to patients, of course all patients will not know how to speak English, so it is therefore necessary to have much better knowledge, his knowledge of Croatian. So we'll take good care of that too. And here I must say, when it comes to these professions, that we do not welcome the unprepared entry into the European Union, and when it comes to nurses of general health care, what happened to the Poles will not happen to us, what happened to the Slovaks, but we have actually secured their acquired rights under the negotiations in Chapter 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71478	Thank you. Do the committees want to take part in the work? Yeah. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 39th regular session held on 6 April, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The Committee considered this to be a parent working body. The opening argument was given by a representative of the applicant, who pointed out that the proposed law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European Parliament's directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, in a segment relating to regulated health professions. In the discussion, the board members pointed to certain problems that relate primarily to the lack of adequate medical doctors, medical specialists, and midwives in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, according to the experiences of some European countries, the trends of permanent and occasional departures of doctors from the country of origin to another country, to a member of the European Union, which could therefore pose major problems mainly when Croatia enters the European Union. With this in mind, the proposal is for committee members to be able to address these problems primarily by increasing registration quotas at higher school institutions and university institutions. After this debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions, and to recognise foreign professional qualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71480	Thank you. And the Health Committee, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang, chairman of the board. It's Ovoltie.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. As an interested working body, the Health Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the final proposal for a law. In its opening statement, the Committee accepted proposals from the proposings, whose representative explained the basic reasons for the implementation of the amendment and the addition of the existing law. As the proposing representative pointed out, certain amendments are necessary in order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, relating to Chapter 3 of the right of business and to the freedom to provide services, and in accordance with the European Parliament and Council of Europe directives on the recognition of professional qualifications. For this committee, a particular problem has been highlighted by the possible lack of a doctor after this law has entered into force. Persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States of the European Union shall be given access to the same profession and to the same rights in the exercise of that profession in another Member State, which applies to its citizens. In accordance with the proposal from the European Commission, it is recognised that a doctor of medicine who was established in general in the framework of a health care system before the date of receipt of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is entitled to receive medical care. In the discussion, the committee members pointed to the experience of some European countries, the newer members of the European Union, which saw trends in the occasional and permanent migration of doctors from the country of origin to some of the other EU member states. Such a trend could lead to a worrying lack of quality medical personnel, it noted in the debate that followed. As a solution, board members have proposed to increase registration quotas to high school and university institutions, and in order to educate as many quality doctors as possible. After the debate, the committee members unanimously accepted the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71482	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71483	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have therefore heard that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and regarding Chapter 3 of the right of business and freedom to provide services, drawn up in accordance with the 2005/36 Council and Parliament Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications. This Directive therefore guarantees the persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States, access to the same profession, the same rights in the exercise of that profession in another Member State, as well as the nationals of that Member State. And the directive aims at improving, of course, the rules of applicable qualifications recognition systems in light of experience and at the same time maintaining the principle of the guarantee of freedom of establishment, which are incorporated into these systems. In this law, therefore, there have been discussions on regulated professions from 2008 and 2009 and it is always causing absolute attention as it is now, since the European Commission has also expressed that there are certain ambiguities in relation to certain articles, but also, of course, also in connection with the fact that the possible involvement of regulated professions in the future from the EU in our area and ours in the large EU area. In this respect, therefore, the recognition of the professional qualifications of the Member State is taking place. The host qualification holder shall allow access to the regulated profession for which it has been trained in the home Member State as well as to carry out that profession under conditions which apply to its nationals. The definition therefore states that a regulated profession involves professional activity or a set of professional activities where access and exercise is, or a way of carrying out activities on the basis of legal acts, directly or indirectly conditional upon the possession of certain professional qualifications, as well as a professional activity or a group of professional activities dealing with members of professional organisations with a professional name. So the definition itself shows that it's a very wide area, and we've heard what regulated professions they are. So, these are Dr. medicine, Dr. dentistry, nurse general care, Mr. pharmaceuticals, midwife, veterinarian and architect. And therefore, each of these professions is extremely significant and important, and in that sense they were introduced, therefore, and with regard to the clarification of these particular ambiguities. Secondly, it also leads to explicit and nomotechnical improvements in the law. And in that sense, it is necessary to mention these few articles. Therefore, Article 25(7), which automatically recognises the foreign educational qualification of recipients and the importance of recipients in Europe, therefore, is extremely significant. But here we look forward to having a short period of time, too, and with us is the study of hosthood in Rijeka, and the first personnel have already come out of there. Because we know that in one Dutch example, I am saying that almost 30% of births are done in houses, and in Croatia most births are mainly carried out in hospital institutions. Therefore, Article 29, which adds paragraphs 4 and 5, is further important and with regard to the regulation of a general physician. Therefore, in Article 25, new items are added to the provision that the Republic of Croatia is required to recognise the bankruptcy of the right of the general family medicine established in general family medicine under the health care system prior to the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. It is also prescribed that the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia will issue a certificate for Dr. Medicine if requested by the applicant and everything the certificate must contain. And we heard that it must contain a complete study of medicine, a business creation, all of which was made clear by the proposer's representative. And on the basis of this certificate, the Medical Chamber would then issue a licence that doctors in Croatia must have and renew regularly. This provision also provides for the provision that training of specific professional training in general medicine shall include, among other things, a full hourly programme carried out for at least 3 years under the supervision of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. The committee is also mentioned and nurses are the same which are extremely important. And in that sense, the status of the nurse of general care is recognised. So, by entering Croatia into the EU. It may also be necessary to mention article 35 relating to the work of Mr. Pharmacy, so for which jobs Mr. Pharmacy is capable. And in any case, we at the HDZ Club hold that this final bill will remove ambiguity and, of course, further improve this area of regulated professions. So we'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71484	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71485	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Directive of 2005 guarantees the persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession and the same rights in the exercise of that profession in another Member State as the nationals of that Member State. The aim of the directive is to improve the rules of applicable systems, to recognise qualifications in the light of experience, while maintaining the principle of guaranteeing freedom of business that is incorporated into these systems. By recognising the professional qualifications of the host Member States, the host Member State shall allow the holder of qualifications to access the regulated profession for which he has been trained in the home Member State as well as to carry out that profession under conditions which apply to its citizens. In doing so, the regulated profession involves professional activity or a group of professional activities where the approach to the exercise, i.e. the way in which the activities are carried out on the basis of legal acts, i.e. sublegal or other acts adopted on the basis of legal powers, is directly or indirectly conditional upon the possession of certain professional qualifications as well as the professional activity or group of professional activities involving members of professional organisations with a professional name. Since the European Commission has warned of ambiguities in the formulation of certain articles of the law, this legislative proposal removes these ambiguities, i.e. clarifying the provisions relating to regulated health professions. In accordance with that provision, Article 25(7) of the Law concerning the automatic recognition of the foreign educational qualification of the recipient is amended in such a way as to refer to the relevant provision of a directive relating to the conditions for automatic recognition. Furthermore, in accordance with the proposal from the European Commission on the provision of Article 29 of the Law, new provisions are added which prescribe that the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of carrying out the activities of general family medicine, recognises the acquired right of a doctor of medicine. In addition, this legislative proposal prescribes the content of a certificate for a doctor of medicine issued by the Ministry of Health and Social Care if such confirmation is requested by the applicant. In addition, according to the European Commission proposal, this legislative proposal states that training in special vocational training in general medicine includes, among other things, a full-sighted programme, but that the duration of such a programme is at least three years, and that the programme must be implemented under the supervision of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. From this point on, the Association of Representatives of the HSS supports this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71486	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71487	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In short, three minutes on this bill. The SDP club supports the adoption of this law. It is on the one hand about harmonisation, on the other hand, that it is about guaranteeing access to professions and creating equal conditions for everyone in particular when it comes to regulation of professions in medicine. So, really short. This law should be passed and this law, especially with Croatia's entry into the EU, points to the common labour market that follows, points to a common area of work, a common area of education. So on mobility whether through schooling or through work. That's why this reminds me when I speak primarily of higher education, of the Bologna process, of what comes with it. I would be the luckiest really lucky if every Croatian medical student could spend at least one semester or one academic year out there and study, I would be the happiest if the process of recognition was at least at semesters and academic years knowing that these young people who finish their education will stay in this country and work as good quality doctors. We need to be ready right now to say that this system would work well, in order for our higher education to work well, we need to facilitate red tape, so make it easier to form and start caring for content. Unfortunately, in our higher education we have examples of extremely high quality programs, we have examples of not quite so high quality, we have a reform of higher education carried out in a feudal way, I have already said this on several occasions and argued in which high school reformed towards the Bologna process in a way that often the cathedrals each for themselves were a small feud and that is something that must slowly start to change. But also with EU membership, our young people will get a chance to school and work outside for a while, and our hope is that in the end most of them will remain in the Republic. And that's why this law, which is primarily just a channel, but really only one channel for the recognition system, needs to open up the issue of measures, which are measures to encourage our doctors and to school outside, maybe co-finance them, but also encourage them to stay working in the Republic, so that we can create a quality system for doctors, for university professors, for all those young medics who want to stay there to work, so that we don't have to do things like that now in Split. There's so little about the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71488	I thank you on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is true that this legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications wanted us to know in advance how many more years or months, to realize that what the EU is seeking is the labour market, mobility, to tell workers of the workforce in these areas that are being spoken of today. Then a uniform education on what we are talking about today, medical professions, so starting with nurses, midwives, doctors of family medicine, doctors of specialists, dentologists, dentists as well as specialization in dentistry and master pharmacies with what is already mentioned and these are architects and veterinarians that I would not like to talk about today. Mr. Secretary of State said this would require an increase in enrolment quotas at our colleges, at our higher education institutions. For 5 to 6 years I have known, negotiations with the EU are ongoing, and I don't know how long it will take, whether it doesn't matter in months or years. So I ask myself, given the lack that is more than clear in Croatia, mainly in the case of specialists of some professions, which are pediatricians, surgeons, anesthesiologists, so during these negotiations, it was known that at that time we will be able to regulate professions and it was known that there will be a need for registration quotas, and it was known that this would make me say English muvig mobility of labour force, there will probably be an increased effusion of family medicine doctors and even as many specialists towards EU countries. And now it is clear that it is necessary to increase the registration quotas or to import to say such metaphorical doctors from non-EU countries, and we have granted them the right to work in the Republic of Croatia, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, etc. or the countries of the so-called The EU's regions say it, whether it's written ahead YU or the EU's Western Balkans region. Shall we replace a part of our highly specialized and trained staff with these staff who, when Croatia enters the European Union, will clearly be tempted to work in Croatia. So will a European change occur in these professions, in medicine, in dentistry, in primacy. It is clear that both personally and as a HDSSB club, we support these amendments and amendments to the laws because they are indeed a sign and read that it is a recognition of our professional qualifications and the right and access to work in the current 27 European Union countries. Regardless of the lack, the number of specialists in Croatia is now being shown by Croatia, there are institutions in which the political ban on the work of any regular or additional specialists in the Republic of Croatia is being banned. We have an example of New City, Slavonski Brod, etc. where HDZ's policy is doing its political work in an unsuspecting and ruthless manner leading to situations where specialists are declaring themselves unnecessary in these institutions, both at the hospital in Gradišca and at the hospital in Slavonski Brod. So it's said here that it would be good for some of the studies to be at least the last two years or three years, so teaching is in English which is good. However, the European Union is not only England or is spoken exclusively in English in the European Union. We have a group called the so-called group. Romanian countries in which is both French or Italian, and then German on the other side of German languages also, as well as Slavic, Polish, Czech. So if our doctor gets a job in France and speaks English he'll hardly make it there as a doctor. It is also good what Mr. Secretary of State said that at our Faculty of Philosophy there is the possibility of training these professional staffs to adopt the Croatian language to the extent necessary for access to work. So, there are still those from the EU region of the Western Balkans, regardless of how the YU or the EU is read "it", they are somewhat closer to us yet, and I am afraid that this kind of fluctuation of these highly skilled personnel will occur, so doctors, dentists, recipients and all those who are listed here are that without exceptions from the Eastern or southeast of the European Union, so Croatia towards the West, and yet from this EU region of the Western Balkans, east to Croatia, we will get a completely different picture of health employees in the Republic of Croatia. Increased registration quotas, I repeat, I'm afraid it's a little late for that, and now if we increase the registration quotas for autumn 2011, the doctors of family medicine, the doctors will be out in six years, if they're regular, so the most regular. Specialists, specializations last as which, surgery for 4 years, urology for 5 years, neurosurgery for 6 years, and then you can think or we can think about when Croatia will... these qualifications and specializations and studies will be recognised so that the number of necessary personnel needed by the Republic of Croatia will be achieved. [[You don't understand.]] However, I will directly ask Mr. Secretary of State in connection with Article 54 listed here in a material that says that the Republic of Croatia recognises the confirmation provided for in Article 29. A law issued by the competent authority of an EU Member State shall be issued to an EU citizen. The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia will issue a certificate in accordance with Article 29 of this Act to Croatian citizens in order to carry out the activities of general family medicine in the primary health care of the Republic of Croatia. So, is the condition to issue this solution work in primary health care for 3 years. So I wonder which doctor, especially in this recent time, I've worked for five years in primary health care, and that was my condition to get specialization, it's in that rotten Yugoslavia system. I wonder what kind of specialist he's got today, who's being conditioned to work for three years in primary health care. It's gone. So I wonder which of the doctors worked for 3 years in primary health care other than Mr. Milinkovic, he still works in primary. So it's a little weird, here I hope Mr. Secretary of State will explain the matter to me, so if there's a condition for this kind of confirmation for three years of working in primary health care. In addition to all these raised doubts and raised doubts and certain criticisms, well-intentioned and in good faith on my part, the HDSSB Club will accept this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71490	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is a respected representative of Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71491	Dear and esteemed Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The law governing the regulation of professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has been adopted for the purposes of harmonising the law of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union and related to Chapter 3-Right of business creation and freedom to provide services, and has been drawn up in accordance with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. The directive aims to improve the rules of a valid qualification system in the light of experience, while maintaining the principles and guarantees of freedom of business established in those systems. Since the European Commission, as has already been said here, has warned of the ambiguities in the formulation of certain articles of the law, this legislative proposal removes these ambiguities or clarifies the provisions relating to regulated health professions. This is about these amendments to the law on seven regulated professions. But colleagues and colleagues allow me to base myself on just the two that matter to me. They're all important, but I don't think we're doing it again, considering these two. The provisions of Article 25(7) of the Act relating to the automatic recognition of the foreign educational qualification of the recipient are amended in such a way as to refer to the relevant provision of a directive relating to the conditions for automatic recognition. Article 29, as already stated here, is added Articles 4 and 5. For the purposes of Article 29, the following definitions shall apply: The law adds new provisions which are prescribed that the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of carrying out the activities of general family medicine, recognises the acquired right to a doctor of medicine who was established in general family medicine under a health care system before the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the European Union. In addition, this legislative proposal prescribes the content of a certificate for a doctor of medicine issued by the Ministry of Health and Social Care if such confirmation is requested and requested by the applicant. In line with the proposal from the European Commission, this legislative proposal states that training in special vocational training in general medicine includes, among other things, a full-sighted programme. But it is understood that the duration of such a programme is at least three years and that the programme must be implemented under the supervision of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. For the sake of everything so far, I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the final proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71492	Thank you. It is next to representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71493	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications which I consider two important things in my nine articles. First of all, he's wearing a P.Z. tag. means compliance with the acquis of the European Union. In fact, it removes the ambiguities that the European Commission pointed to, in the law that we normally passed in 2009 and as a measure of Chapter 3. The right of business creation and the free provision of services. And what makes this law important is that the amendments and additions of this law allow and guarantees both our professions regulated, and here in these nine laws everything changes and complements the health profession, to guarantee equal access and recognition of qualifications in the other 27 members of the European Union when Croatia enters full membership in the European Union. What I would say here is that I agree with the conclusions drawn here by the presidents and vice presidents of both the parent and the interested committees, which is that I advocate an increase in the registration quotas at medical schools because we are witnessing that even today, so until we are not a full member of the European Union we are witnessing that we are missing a doctor of medicine. Here I will take the opportunity and resolutely reject what my colleague Grubisic said, that in Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradiška specialists, specialists are declared unnecessary. He knows why he said it. I'll tell you that the ship's hospital has 150 specialists, has 61 specialists, and this year it's looking for a new 18 specialization. What we are all witnessing is the fact that the Ministry of Health and Social Care knowingly approves of this situation and a greater number of specializations at the level of the year than, say, the Brod-Posavina County gets to call it the dominant doctors. But we have to admit that lately there has been a greater interest in doctors of medicine who are looking for specializations and are reporting from other parts of Croatia and are reporting for tenders which are being discussed by health institutions in Slavosko Brod, so in Brod-Posavina County. So, in any case, it is not exactly what counterpart Grubisic said, and perhaps it would be good to talk about what individuals in the additional work on duty are doing and what they do. So, back to the bill of this law. I'll support the law and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71494	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And so did my colleagues before that case, I'm announcing my support for this bill in advance. It is not only therefore in compliance with EU legislation, so it is also sent to the emergency procedure. At the same time, it is also in its own way an incentive to the quality of education, a quality that can be measured when acquiring certain qualifications. For what? Because entering the European Union the next day is, in fact, a certain way if we look from a quality point of view to a higher level. So if we go into that space and we open that space, therefore to experts from all over the European Union, of course, that level is not fully even there, but it tends to, therefore, equalize that quality, then in a certain way we compete in that space. Given that we are indeed a very few people, unfortunately in relation to the vast number of inhabitants in the European Union, it is in any case right now and now that we have an account and care for our profession, about our education of our experts. So in this particular case, I turn more to medical professionals, or doctors, nurses, etc. On the other hand, and on our committee, there is an emphasis on the problem of draining personnel, possible draining of personnel from our space, because Croatian medicine, or Croatian experts, is appreciated, we have the freedom to show extraordinary education and which is produced by extraordinary experts. On the other hand, there is a danger that those who are not so professional may still come to the territory of Croatia, but in some ways already think about it, and therefore popularising the study of medicine, so attracting young people and quality to study medicine, then more enrolment and planning more enrolment in our universities can be one of the answers. I would certainly not ignore another source from which we can in a certain way draw and provide additional medical staff, or our doctors, so if we should also have sisters, although Croatia has been known until now, unfortunately, primarily after the export of medical staff to the countries of the European Union, is also Croatian emigration. So imagine how many doctors at this time of experts in different, in different parts of the world work in hospitals, at universities, and has Croatian roots, has sympathies with Croatia, speaks Croatian, and in some ways the next day when Croatia enters the European Union Croatia becomes even more interesting to these people. Therefore, we are concerned about this, as we are concerned about the fact that we already need to prevent the problem of expert drains, for example, in a certain way. from Bosnia and Herzegovina's space to the Croatian health system, first of all I think of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then, in that case, institutions that are among other things of one, not only of public health meaning, but also of national significance remain without leading, without important experts and therefore actually support to the institutions of health in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am thinking first of all of the Federation, and of those health institutions that are gravitating above all Croatian... its first-class interest, and therefore the Republic of Croatia also allocates certain resources and now also directs them to a clinical hospital in Mostar and other health institutions in Croatia, but also allocates certain resources for the treatment of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think whenever this topic is mentioned, it is very important to say that this is direct support at the same time for Bosnia and Herzegovina, because all the health institutions I'm talking about now are actually open to all people who need help and from this assistance from the Republic of Croatia have all the expensive help. On the other hand, helping the state of Croatia is also in itself, with stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in fact, a kind of advantage and stability of the Republic of Croatia. I would, here at the end of this presentation, actually commend the work of the Ministry of Health, and here present Mr of State Secretary, who is actually in one painful I would say so to negotiate with the European Union, make sure that our sisters are equally valued in the entire area of the European Union and that they do not have those problems that some members of the European Union had, the new members of the European Union, because their negotiators have failed to negotiate what was to be negotiated. So my thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, commendation to the ministry responsible, that in this way it led the negotiations, that it ensured that the European whole space for all our experts was a space where they would be equally evaluated and equally valued. In the end and with that I conclude, once again my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71496	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So as the predecessors have said since 7 professions 5 is health care, and what we must worry about today in Croatia is that of these 5 health professions we are only about one already today with the same number as the European Community 15, so old members of the European community 12 new members. So we have, in Croatia today, a lack of doctors, a lack of nurses, a lack of midwife, a lack of pharmacists, but today on a number of residents, we are only the number of dentist doctors together today on average of the European Union. All the predecessors said that this is a commendation to the Ministry of Health, I join the Ministry of Science, and it would be great if the Ministry of Justice worked similarly in negotiations with the European Union, then they would not be afraid whether we would end up in June or not in June negotiations with the European Union. But given the first fact, one big problem is raised. First, there will be a problem that has occurred in transition countries, mainly in Poland, the Czech Republic, the phenomenon of flying doctors. So people worked in Krakow, Warsaw, Monday until Friday, Friday at 5:00 p.m. they sat on low budget planes... Went to the United Kingdom, London, Paris, worked there all Saturday, Sunday, and somewhere late Monday morning, or early Monday morning, 3, 4 returned to Krakow, Warsaw, Prague, Pestu, and continued to do their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They were called flying doctors because they therefore had their weekend, a time when we should rest and prepare for work week, spent for poor little wages, as our nurses and our doctors today have, earning bread abroad. That's the first problem. Another problem is that if we don't give them conditions today, at least they're top-notch, and they're all top-notch in clinical hospitals, and in county hospitals, if we don't give them adequate conditions, they'll simply go away, if I may say belly after bread. He will go to Slovenia, go to Austria, France or England, depending on their language area, and definitely this shift of our doctors towards the west will happen, as Croatian medicine, Croatian nurses, Croatian biochemists are known and recognized in the world. What's gonna happen? So we already have a shortage of doctors, nurses, midwives and pharmacists today, with our doctors going abroad, there will be a further lack of medical staff and a highly likely shift from the east to Croatia. It is therefore important not only to recognise our doctors abroad, but to recognize those doctors who will work in Croatia, which is done relatively correctly for now. So I recommend that you do a more rigorous and written exam and a more rigorous exam of the old what I say... diplomas, under the old name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb is the first Faculty of Medicine, the first university of Croatian universities, all universities that introduced a study in English. It's a pleasure to meet you at Rebra, too, and since it's a basic teaching base for study in English today... speak English and French, meet and talk with people, students from Canada, America, France, Great Britain. And that's where the second problem opens, it's easy to talk to those colleagues for the first three years when they're on Shalata, when they're at the preclinical because they're looking at anatomy, physiology, biochemistry. There's a problem when they come to me at the clinic, when they come to work with patients. So they speak excellent English, but do not speak Croatian. The basis of medicine is medicine, clinical medicine learning next to the patient’s bedside teaching. So, I've already recommended to the Secretary of State to pass it on to Minister Fuchs. Students, since it is already organized at the Faculty of Philosophy, students who come to study in English in Croatian universities must have an obligation to at least interactively learn Croatian language in the sense of providing them with basic information. In other words, we now have a problem that we need to find our patients who know English so that doctors, students from abroad can talk at all, take a history of doing lies artis review etc. So the problem is very layered, very complex and this problem will be getting bigger and bigger from day to day. The opening of studies in English is a commendation to the Faculty of Medicine, commendation to the Croatian university and that number of our students from abroad is increasing and expanding. Therefore, once again, it is my request to the Secretary of State for Science that all Croatian medical schools be finally heard to raise the registration quota. It only increased at the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb. Therefore, both in Split, Osijek and Rijeka to consider the lack of all health personnel especially when going abroad and, of course, to the Secretary of State for Health that in this process of recognising diplomas, any degree of health care professionals if I may say conditionally east of Croatia we are more rigorous in terms of written examinations, professional examinations if necessary, examinations of skills. Because they'll still treat all of our citizens. A colleague, Bagaric, spoke about helping Croatian health care with the Federation of BiH. In BiH, all of us, colleague Bagarić, who we teach, and I am a guest lecturer at the University of Medicine in Mostar, are giving our pain because there we come a bona fide, so we come with goodwill, with good faith that we convey our skills to our students. The students of the University of Medicine in Mostar are great students. I had excellent seminars and lectures with them a month ago, two days ago, and there, too, my colleague Bagarić, should have raised the registration quotas because there is already a lack of doctors, and most likely a part of them will come to work in Croatia. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71498	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71499	Thank you very much. I welcome Mr. Ostojić, I think he was very logical, logical. However, I have only actually a comment here we use the word replica, so you say it will happen, it will happen. So let's make sure that doesn't happen. You understand? So, don't happen to get our people out there somewhere. So it's very important for us to build a stable system here, so it's very important that we do exactly what you say. So, and open a study in English. Since you mentioned a study in English, a study of medicine in Zagreb, I would add a study that has been announced, it will also be open in Split. And here I would like to publicly commend Professor here. Marusic, who actually encouraged a study of medicine in Split in English, first of all with a purpose, tells me to attract children of Croatian emigrants. So, watch out, we have an awful lot of children, people of our own who are interested in studying in Croatia. Medicine is an attractive study for these people. They may not speak best Croatian, but by coming to Split or by coming to Croatia we will achieve two gains – one thing people will be there, people will study there and it will be for the well-being of both universities and Croatia. On the other hand, these people will learn language and most likely stay. And you're right when you mention in this case support to the medical school, among other things. in Mostar because we just analyzed it, but people who have finished studying medicine, for example. in Sarajevo or Mostar, they usually stay in that space. People who came from there and finished studying in Zagreb remain in Zagreb. So our intensity should be as many English studies in Croatia as possible with the aim of attracting children from emigration and remaining here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71500	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71501	Once again, I commend Mr. Secretary of State Janjic and Mr. Secretary of State Golem for this bill. And thank you, too, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71502	It's our guest, Daniel Srb, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Unlike most of the debates we've had here today, I'm going to be against this law, but it seems to me because I think there's something seriously missing in this law, I'd call it asymmetric. In fact, this law has very well addressed the issue of the position of all health professions. And apparently, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science worked very well together. But what is asked is the question, and what about other regulated professions? In the very text of the law, therefore, none of the words about veterinarians, architects, nor mention, of course, other regulated professions. So this law either needs to be renamed and called the Law on regulated professions in health care and the recognition of professional qualifications, or should actually be amended in such a way as to resolve all professions that are regulated and which should be covered by this law. Therefore, it is obvious that the Ministry of Agriculture must be better involved when it comes to the position of veterinarians, the Ministry of Construction, environmental protection and spatial planning when it comes to those professions that have public authority to act, which are therefore engineers of geodesy, electrical engineering, engineering and construction in order to fully apply this law. As long as he refers practically only to regulated health professions, which I must say are very detailedly described here. And in this respect, I also thank the Ministry of Health for its cooperation in the preparation of this law, I believe that it would be a great failure to pass in this form such a law relating to all regulated professions or to rename it to a law relating to regulated professions in health care, and to adopt special laws for other regulated professions. I would ask that this one serious problem that will certainly be noticed by all those who are from other professions with public powers also be taken into account because we are all in the interest of ensuring in this whole process the same status for all Croatian citizens and all professions. Of course, it will also have great repercussions for representatives of long foreign experts who want to work in Croatia and whose action must also be coordinated, and they must also be given public authority to act in Croatia on the basis of their professional opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71504	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71505	Dear Serbs, I agree absolutely with you that the whole system should be set up in a way that allows all our citizens, regardless of what qualifications they are to say or what professions, have equal access to the labour market and that their visibility and readability in the European space is secured. That was what prompted the entire Bologna reform and everything else. However, it seems to me that when it comes to this, there is a part and perhaps a misunderstanding, because we have not defined these regulated professions, therefore these professions are called regulated because their status within the EU itself is because these professions have managed to deal with such a thing. However, this does not mean that people who have other professions, under this second law that we will talk about in terms of recognition of qualifications, do not have the same status. These professions to say so, so maybe a little rough on their lobbying for the status of their professions that they initiated within the EU have to say maybe something different. It's personal for me to think that maybe it's to expect that this kind of profession that will be and time will be more and more, and then at some point it'll come down ok. Let's all go by the same principle so we won't even have any more in the end. So, I don't think we can mix those two things just so we don't confuse people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71506	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71507	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this is exactly how people are rebelled, and then we should explain it to everyone. When it comes to the area of health, it is very detailedly defined by this law and everyone else is either not mentioned at all or mentioned only by name and without any content. I think that this is exactly the kind of bill that upsets people, and we are making the law because of us, because of our citizens, because of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and them, we need to determine the whole system of lawmaking, not only so that they will not be confused, so that we have the right information, but in order to enable them with timely information and in the best possible way to do their jobs both in Croatia and outside Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71508	Thank you. And as last in an individual debate, distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71509	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary. So it is a law that should certainly be adopted if we have indeed truly decided to join full EU membership, and for this I really have no reason to doubt that this is not the case. However, by adopting this law, experts in particular medical professions will no doubt be able to come to the Republic of Croatia, mobility is increased, the labour market is regulated as usual in the EU. However, Mr. Secretary of State Janjic himself and his colleague Ostojić also referred to the lack of certain lack of pharmacists, doctors, nurses, midwives. So State Secretary Janjic also said that an increase in registration quotas for medical schools is also planned. However, it is not a problem in the legislation, the problem is indeed in the implementation of already existing laws, and I would almost dare say those we adopt on the track. I would refer here to a title in today's morning list that says that because of the cancellation of 48 lecturers comes into question at the Faculty of Medicine in Split. So something that's actually incomprehensible how that kind of situation can happen at all, especially if the lecturers come from KBC, so their activity involves teaching. So, despite the intensities of our parliamentary representatives to pass laws, our legal area is harmonised with European acqus, which is where the things that are destroying the system happen to us. Here recently, two, three weeks ago, she was in the Republic of Croatia and the International Assessment Team with the aim of evaluating public institutes in the Republic of Croatia, so she was an extremely important and well-intentioned team related to the medical and biomedical activities of our institutes. They have evaluated the Institute for Medical Research of Labour Medicine, parts of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and despite the fact that this part of the evaluation has passed rather infamously but this is not the topic of this law and debate now. I ask the question how is it possible that our public institutes, especially those dealing with the medical and biomedical profession, are primarily the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine of Work as the scientific lever of the public health doctrine, perhaps the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time or parts of the "Ruđer Boskovic" Institute. Why they are not systematically involved in teaching programs, they were once part of the university, but for incomprehensible reasons they are no longer. It is that some people, experts, experts, science doctors working on these institutes are involved in scientific and teaching activities, working with students, but it is not systematically solved. Why this is not systematically resolved, why there is no cooperation between the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Health and at that level. One of the recommendations of an evaluator team hired by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and people come from the most measuring scientific and professional and educational institutions in the world,... The Institute, John Hopkins, Harvard School of Medicine. [[You don't understand.]] So they didn't understand why there was no greater interaction between universities and institutes, why there was no greater interaction between specialist education and scientific education, so a postgraduate study in medical sciences. Today medical sciences are extremely interdisciplinary and without including and biologists, chemists, physicists, it is impossible to imagine today also diagnostics, treatment activities, just as a medical profession. And we would have to improve the system in this sense to valorize possible contributions and other non-medical professions, but which are widely involved in medicine. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and something needs to be changed, especially in light of the possible danger of the outflow of medical personnel from the Republic of Croatia following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, which teaches us the situation from many Eastern and Central European countries that are now EU members. That's exactly what happened to them. So we need to counter and prevent such situations, strengthen educational activity at all levels and not allow education, especially in medical sciences and biomedical sciences to become an exclusive business. And I hope that these results of the evaluation of public institutes in the Republic of Croatia will go in this direction and improve the situation and that the Ministry of Science will know how to use these results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71510	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the first address will be the esteemed Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71511	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. In today's debate, it seems to me that there may have been some little misunderstandings, so let me explain a few things. The system of recognition is an automatic recognition system, only refers to seven professions in the European Union countries which say that among all regulated professions they have in the same way in all 27 countries and the 28th country candidate Croatia solved education, means the way in which the profession is acquired and all other regulations needed to work in a given profession. Of the seven five, they're really healthy, one of the doctors in veterinary medicine is also architects. All other professions, although in different countries are regulated in different ways, do not have the same way of education and therefore do not have recognised automatic recognition. This is today's proposal for a law that is in place, amending and supplementing the law, it is clear that it applies in a large part, if not almost all, to health professions because in health professions certain modifications have had to be made, and that health professions will absolutely comply with Directive 36 of 2005 so that these seven professions, of which five health professions, will have this automatic recognition. This does not mean that other regulated professions in Croatia such as engineers, such as builders or others, are not recognised in Europe. This has nothing to do with each other, but it has a general system of recognition which means everything they could do by going to work anywhere in any European Union country has a system of recognition as you will here today in the next draft of the law. There's been another misunderstanding with the doctor of medicine. In the European Union, as well as in the Republic of Croatia, when the Faculty of Medicine is completed then it is going to the labour market, someone goes to specialization and an existing specialist in Croatia becomes an automatic specialist in the European Union. As for doctors in primary health care, in the European Union it is a general practice, we call it a general practice, which takes three years where working conditions are obtained in what we call general family medicine or primary health care. In Croatia, it was accepted that the pandan is a specialization in general family medicine. However, on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union, one good part of our doctors who has worked for more than 3 years in the Republic of Croatia will have no specialisation, but the negotiations clearly indicated that they retain the right to work and that they are recognised to work in general family medicine. So it's not that all specialists should have some kind of three years of general medicine to be admitted, but it's a transitional provision which, therefore, ensures that people who do not specialize in general family medicine continue working and acquired the rights they have. As for the lack of a doctor and the possibility of immigration. I think it points to the wrong data all the time. Namely, a system should be taken as it was in the countries of Eastern Europe before entering the European Union where there was no migration of experts unlike Croatia, which can be seen more in Slovenia, where and in Slovenia there is no such migration of doctors. Why? Because Croatian doctors and Croatian nurses in history could have gone abroad without a problem. Because, according to the MPs, they were highly appreciated. So we don't expect any special shift, because there wasn't a barrier before, but we expect it to be the regular emigration that it's been until now, and the lack we have at this point is clear that we need to make additional efforts. That is why we have popularized a study of medicine and in the past five years we have led to the fact that from two candidates to one entry place we have already returned to four candidates in one place, that at the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb an increase of the registration quota for 60 people, that all the preconditions are also being made to increase all registration quotas, and what may be a positive shift I repeat by changing curricula students of medicine who have enrolled under the new programme of their study of medicine lasts six years and when they graduate get approval for independent work. After six years of completion, the curricula had a year of traineeship, a professional exam, and only then was it approved for work. On the day of entry into the European Union, two generations, so our colleagues who end their traineeship that year, as well as those who end up following a new curricula, are at the same time entering the labour market. This means that in one year, in all the professions that have had a traineeship, they are nurses, they are doctors of medicine, they are doctors of dental medicine and pharmacists have two generations that enter the labour market. Thus, there will already be a good shift in the suppression of the lack of profession in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71512	Thank you. And now it is the same on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your interest in amending and supplementing this law and for supporting of course this law. At first, I would like to say that the Legislative Committee has tabled two amendments. The proposer accepts both amendments to the Legislative Committee. Let me just have a few more words. Dr. Golem spoke in part, referred to your discussions. Let me just say briefly that, of course, we have prepared ourselves for this and when it comes to these two generations that will simultaneously enter the labour market, so the possible outflow of our personnel has already been tempered or even completely remedied by this fact. I'll give just one more detail when it comes to nurses of general health care. We also have a situation here, so at the high school level. In all of Croatia, we have 27 secondary schools that have health programs and we started with a new curricula which, unlike the previous ones, actually means high school education for five years. There were, of course, fears that the students would not be interested, but it happened exactly the other way around that in the first year of enrolment, we had requests from these schools to increase the number of registrations we naturally approved. So this problem here will definitely not be expressed, and surely the students happily accepted it because the current system meant four years of secondary education and one year of volunteering, of course, the most frequently free, then passing a professional exam and only then entering the world of work. So this time we have the dare to say actually a more quality curricula and it is expected that the enrollment will be that way in the coming years. When it comes to the registration quotas you were talking about, when it comes to doctors we already have this increased at the Zagreb Medical School. But there are also assumptions at other medical schools, at the University of Osijek, in Rijeka and Split, so that all of these justified cautions are what we have perceived and in preparation not only for the amendments of these laws but in fact over the past years to what is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71514	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71515	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 730. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them, became an integral part of the bill, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was also adopted by the majority of votes, 98 votes in favour, nothing abstentioned and 1 against, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71516	We're moving on to point ten. That's 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 738. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71517	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me take a quick look at this law. Therefore, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications is a law which provides for the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and provides for the application of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in this recognition procedure. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 6 October 2010 had the responsibility to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing the Law from administrative areas in which the General Administrative Procedure Act applies, and it was therefore necessary to amend the procedural provisions of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. The draft law proposes changing competences in the process of recognising foreign educational qualifications in such a way that, if it comes to the continuation of primary education, or secondary education, the procedure is conducted by a school institution in which the applicant intends to continue education, which is, of course, primary and secondary education institutions. In the case of completed primary education as well as completed secondary education, the procedure shall be carried out by the Education and Education Agency, i.e. the Professional Education and Education Agency. The first agency, the Agency for Education and Education, therefore implements recognition of the same value of general and artistic programmes, and the Agency for Professional Education and Education implements recognition of the same value for all acquired qualifications after completion of secondary education. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports would no longer implement the recognition process in the first degree, but in the second degree, and it is proposed that this solution starts from September 1st next year, so that our primary, secondary institutions and both agencies can prepare and start the job from September 1st. By then, of course, as before, this job would have been done by the Ministry. In addition, the section of recognition of high school qualifications is proposed to delete the Council for the Evaluation of Foreign Higher Education Qualifications, which was responsible for giving an opinion on the evaluation of higher education qualifications, according to the national... The office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just point out here that seven, eight years ago, we started the ENIC/NARIC office, that it was 38. ENIC/NARIC Office in the European Educational Area which recognises the same value of foreign educational qualifications. In accordance with the Lisbon Convention, the content of a solution to the recognition of higher education qualifications has been arranged, and it does not decide on the issue of the status right of a person seeking recognition of qualifications, nor is it granted the right to use Croatian academic and professional names. By abolishing the evaluation opinion, the whole process becomes simpler and more efficient and is implemented in accordance with the time limits prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. I must point out here that when it comes to the length of the recognition of the same value of higher education qualifications, which was specifically referred to by Commissioner Lovrin on the Committee on Legislatives, it was indeed a very long time ago. Believe me, this could take more than a year, because such requests were addressed to mothering colleges, special commissions were appointed within 6 months, etc., and this procedure indeed took a very long time. He's been shortened later. Now at this point we are counting that this process should not last longer than 15 days from, so when the request comes from that country with which we already have experience in the conduct of this process, and if a country appears for the first time in that request, then it will take a little longer, but neither by chance nor 60 days how much it was before, but actually much shorter. From the moment we receive such a request for the first time from a country, and when it is first solved, then it will go quite quickly, or automatedally. Another question was asked on the board, on the home board on education, science and culture, the external member of the rector Pavić asked the question, so we were tasked to see if the amendment should be intervened. But when we discussed it, we saw that we didn't really need to, and it's actually about academic recognition to continue schooling, which is conducted by a high school. So there's no confusion about what high school, but actually the one where the student himself appears. So, for these reasons, we don't need to change the way we go about it. There is also one amendment to the Legislative Committee before me, and I would like to say at the beginning of this opening letter that we accept this amendment. And allow just a brief clarification when it comes to recognising the same value of primary and secondary qualifications. So far, both the first and second stages have been in one body, i.e. the state administration, at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It's not good that it's in one place and we're separated this time, so the first degree will be in the school institution, and the second degree will be in the ministry. In another case, so this is when it comes to continuing education, I have to say that such cases continue education, either in elementary school, or in high school actually there is little over the year. It's not gonna be a big deal for our schools. And when it comes to the completion of education and recognition of such an foreign educational qualification, they are, of course, significantly more, I can say that it's somewhere around 2,000 on the basis of one year we get from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also from some other countries, so that number has increased, about one 3,000, maybe even slightly more. This will work in the first degree one and the second agencies, so the Agency for Education and Education, and the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. We think this solution is much better. Our schools, if they need help, we have clearly stated here that they can address one or another agency, and ask for their opinion, or their help, which they are obliged to give within 8 days, so that the procedure will not actually be lasting and the result of all would be, in fact, a reduction of this process. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs, I hope that in this way, we are doing this matter much better, and we are contributing to this process in any case being shortened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71518	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71519	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. A little longer on the subject of this law. So first of all, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. We believe that this is another channel that will make it easier to recognise qualifications, we believe that this is also a social issue, an educational issue, but we believe that this is a very important economic issue. All in all here is going on a few good changes, from moving councils to moving to educational institutions, which ultimately best know how certain things can or must be done. It will probably be at first, we have to say, there will probably be some childhood diseases, and in the end, remember that we will still, we still find ourselves in the situation that we will face qualifications that we may not know, with a different type of certificate that can make a qualification, so it is expected that there will be some problems, eventually at ENIC/NARIC's office, it took 4 years after the recognition of a colleague who works there, 4 years for them to fully get in line and at the highest level to do their job. I would certainly immediately, on behalf of the SDP club, open a brief discussion of what will come to us on this issue and what should be considered slowly. We should start thinking, colleagues and colleagues, and about something called de facto professional recognition. In fact, in a few EU member states there is a very interestingly elaborated system by which a person who finishes gets the title of master of science, meaning the master of science at some American university, comes to work in Germany he can de facto get a professional recognition – professional recognition from the company in which he comes for the company in which the company owner recognises his qualification, accordingly giving him salary and responsibility. But it's only worth there. For a wider story, the whole market must pass the standard qualification recognition system. That is what Croatia needs to think about. It is also necessary to start thinking about the limitations of the concept of a work book. Namely, what Croatia should also start to do is, colleagues and colleagues, recognise informal and informal education, i.e. qualifications acquired by experience. The Croatian system is a lot of the i.e. in this regard. in the system is very closely thought, seen through formal regular education. And we have to start looking through informal and informative education because someone can do it for 5 years, I once said it here, 5 years can work on EU project implementation in Croatia, has acquired unique knowledge, strong quality knowledge, good knowledge and should somehow be valorised. So we're gonna have to turn to that. We are facing EU membership. Looking at education systems, looking at labour markets such as Germany or France or Great Britain, you will see that there are qualifications from which the entire level of activity can be performed. But you'll see that there are certificates within the qualification, you'll see that there are people who may not have a full qualification, but they have a whole series of certificates. And we will need to know how we will deal with this when these people, whether they were citizens of Croatia who were educated in France, Germany or England, come back here or the French, the Germans, the British who came to work in Croatia. Even because of this crisis, the UK has a system of what was called rapid response in English – a quick response to market needs for qualifications and it goes very quickly. There are entire institutions for that. We'll have to deal with that too. So you need to start thinking wide and wider than this. We don't have, it's still in our midterms, a system of higher vocational education. Something these people here who know the French system know what high vocational education means. And now, this law is a shift forward, but this law opens and once again we have to admit that we often build our education system from the roof to the bottom, not from the foundation to the roof. So let's just look at a few things. We still have a very bad attitude towards vocational education. Often, people often view themselves even insolently toward vocational education. Not realizing that vocational education is one of the main pillars, especially now, of developing the economy when it is a crisis. Unfortunately, we still see it that way. We still don't know if he's a first-timer or whether he's a senior or a high-skiller. We have a system where many schools still offer outdated qualifications, that is to be discussed by colleagues and colleagues, outdated qualifications where we often have extra programs, hyperinflation programs, where the same qualifications can be reached through 5, 6, 10 different programs with different satins, with or without some practice, which means paying attention. With particularly slow, particularly slow response from state schools, very slow. Private schools are a little faster, the ministry is here to say okay or it can't, but we have hyperinflation. Often private people, meaning private companies who want to further educate their employees choose the cheapest program that does not have to mean that it is also the best quality. But it could still be on the other side. So these are the things that are happening to us now. Furthermore, we entrepreneurs still have a limited access to the development of qualifications. You know that means they have access, we can't say they don't, they just face often with very large red tape. In one France, entrepreneurs can, of course, create qualifications with the full supervision of the state. And we need to look ourselves in the eye and say that there are problems that need to be solved. Look, I don't want to insult educational institutions or Puck Open Schools here, but there are questions asked by many professors and many entrepreneurs if they want extra education or training for an auxiliary builder why does his employee have to read the Train in snow or Kafka? But, yes, and in such a schooling, you have to read the book. And unfortunately, we here have a conflict between this mental set of state schools that is very formal and regular and the other one that must come, which we must begin to recognize, which is informal and informative education and qualifications from experience. Because the educational path of a 15-year-old child, a young man of 19 or a man with a 50-year-old experience, is not the same. Qualification may be the same, but their educational path is not the same. That's what high school comes to. I said what was going on in the last debate. That we have problems and we need to start working urgently with the re-evaluation of workloads in colleges, with the correct quality assurance system at the level of the subject, at the level of the entire educational direction, at the level of the institution. In Croatia most often, quality assurance works at the level of the university. We need to go to these three levels. We need to look ourselves in the eye and do an analysis of how this bologna is, so we can't say it's over because the Bologna process is called process, it's going on, we need to see where we are now, where we've only old educational programs by simple changes turned into new and where really real big shifts have been made. Because we have too much discretion. And not between university two, but within one institution. I am a personal student of doctoral studies at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and there is amazing how there are genius stories made, well-complex systems and not so many including that some directions by colleges are 3+2 second to it is 4+1. And then two departments argue with each other that students will admit to moving from one to the other. In one college between two departments. So these are the things we're going to have to start dealing with. Just another brief example. Why I'm talking about high-level vocational education and what to think about. Are we a tourist country? We did. Is tourism one big economic branch? It is. Recently, I attended a meeting where tourist activities were just being discussed. And yet I say, personally, it saddens me to see them sometimes turning to, say, tourist-hotelier schools. Yeah. This is happening, but unfortunately both bureaucracy and our economy must sit down and say look at the people, if we are a tourist country then we have to look a little differently through the education sector how we are going to do this job. If someone is educated as a caterer, he becomes a caterer, he may also be a seasonal worker, so he works at sea during the summer. If he wants more education, he can go to the Hotel-Foot School, hotel-tourism. The title of a graduate economist. So, a lot of colleges give the title of a graduate economist. And I don't have a problem with that either, if maybe after five years of working in the hotel itself through acquired experience you can't get a hotel manager qualification or something like that. So we have to see, the countries that are far below us by tourist potential have 5.6 times more developed that system. So, if someone starts out as a waiter, it's right through the system of professional and high professional, they can get to the hotel manager and they can become the top tourist manager. And if our tourism is our priority, then we have to start thinking about it. So, if I don't longer, the law should be supported, but it is urgent to start thinking about recognising informal education, information education and start thinking about showing up in Croatia a whole series of new qualifications for which this country should be prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71520	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mondekar said they're getting all the diplomas from a graduate economist no matter where they end up in a mere school, high school, colleges. That information is not correct. A graduate economist's degree can only be obtained at the Faculty of Economics. You said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71522	No throwing, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71523	You can't get a diploma from a graduate economist in high schools because they're not colleges. They're specialist titles, they're specialist studies and they have completely different diplomas, economist specialists, but they can't possibly have a degree in graduate economists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71524	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71525	Well, here's my thanks, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. I must say immediately at the beginning that the HDZ Club will accept and support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications with the Final Proposal of the Law. Why? It's very simple, because this is one improvement. But here I would like to say something to my colleague Mondekar, who has been well recognized as a young doctor of some processes and difficulties perhaps, but here I would like to say that education recently belongs to the interdisciplinary field of science that has recently been formed and right now there are all the combinations that you have tried to say and that I have to be aware and open but it is impossible to solve some rapid cuts than life will create and in practice we will also create based on those experiences that we have and those opportunities that in the whole world are interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary precisely because of what education is being carried out in all the pores of life. On the other hand, I would like to say that Croatia is intensively preparing and working for this. I just want to remind you that there is a Committee for the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework of the Government that works very hard and thoroughly, you might also be able to offer your experiences there a little bit, because this commission has a need for those forces that want good, because all these things need to be networked, and the commission that has been working for some time and with professional teams has created and the foundation and qualifications framework of Croatia is harmonising with the European and that originality gives it. But let's get back to the subject. I will be very, very brief, which is that it is necessary to harmonise the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications in a way that the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications is consistent with the provisions of the General Administration Act. And it seems and it seems to be at three levels. As far as primary schooling is concerned, what relates to secondary schooling and what applies to high school qualifications. I think that these amendments to the law are a reduction in the difficulty of organising this job, that it is working on two levels in the first and second degree, I will not explain what it means, it is simple and this novelty that happens for the purpose of continuing the education of applicants in primary schools and secondary schools will now be dealt with directly in the school where this is going to happen. That's news. But I think that's good news. And in the event of any need, misunderstandings within 8 days of the Education and Education Agency and the Professional Education and Education Agency reacts and resolves those misunderstandings they have. We also want to say here that as far as higher education qualifications are concerned, such a thing can be regulated even faster in the Republic of Croatia, and that is, by moving the evaluation of foreign higher education qualifications, the professional body of the higher school will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Statute, as well as in this respect, the Agency for Science and Higher Education within 60 days solves such a question. And as far as I can tell, it starts from 1 September 2011. So, I underline, greater responsibility is given to specific institutions that will conduct the education of those who report to her door, either primary or secondary school, and higher schools where someone will report along with the Education and Education Agency. So, I wouldn't be long, it's all clear. I think we all agreed that this is one improvement of the law and the HDZ club will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71526	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71527	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications provides for the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and provides that the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act shall apply in the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, unless otherwise specified by this Act. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since 6 October 2010, is responsible for the central authorities of the State administration to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing laws from administrative areas which are in their jurisdiction in order to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act within 6 months of the adoption of the conclusion. It is therefore necessary to amend the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications in such a way that the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications is in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications requires that the recognition of foreign school qualifications on completed primary and secondary education, parts of that education and forms of professional training and training for certain tasks and occupations be carried out by the Ministry of Education. These amendments to the law propose that the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications in order to continue primary and secondary education is run by a school institution where the applicant intends to continue education. Furthermore, the adoption of this Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications ceased the implementation of the nostrification procedure and introduced a new way of recognising foreign higher education qualifications for which operational infrastructure was to be provided, which involved professional, specific and educated whenever. In such a situation with a large number of requests for recognition already received, without a secure functional system for the implementation of the law, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports decided to form a commission made by professors from all Croatian universities, which was then intended to assist the newly established national office professionally in implementing the procedure for the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications. The abovementioned body is later established within the Agency for Science and Higher Education by the Council for the Evaluation of Foreign Higher Education Qualifications, responsible for giving an opinion on the evaluation of qualifications based on the guidance of the National Office. During the 6-year work on the recognition of qualifications, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, i.e. its National Office, has established a Qualifications Office that functions independently and does not need additional assistance from the Evaluation Council. In addition, it should be pointed out that in the past few years, in accordance with the principles of the Lisbon Convention on Law-based Recognition, the content of the recognition solution has been simplified and it does not decide, in accordance with the provisions of the law, on the issue of the status law of a person seeking recognition of qualifications or on the right to use Croatian academic and professional names, or academic degrees. This made the whole process simpler and more effective. The abolition of the evaluation opinion adopted by the Evaluation Council would further speed up the process and parties to the recognition process could access the labour market in the Republic of Croatia in an even shorter period. Due to the improvements made by this proposal and the reduction of certain difficulties that so far existed, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71528	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, the distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat, is on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71529	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Secretary of State. Here is this amendment to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications which, the basic law experiences this time the fourth amendment after the one from 2003, 2006 and 2009, is further prescribed and a little better in my opinion organises this process of recognising foreign educational qualifications for primary, secondary and higher education. Here we used the opportunity to comply with this new Law on Administrative Procedure, but some newspapers were also introduced that had nothing to do with it directly. My personal opinion is that they've done a lot of repairing and rationalizing this system. However, the frequent changes to this specific regulation have led to many problems for our citizens and citizens who have been educated abroad, I am talking about the past period, and it is very difficult to understand for someone who first faces what the regulation is. So I'm appealing to do a consolidated text that shouldn't be searched. It's not that simple for laymen to comply with the laws and to combine it all together, so here's my appeal, it should be for all the laws, but here's my appeal specifically for this one in order to explain the procedure in more detail. So, after these numerous changes and a lot of learning, as the State Secretary himself admitted, by the very administration that implements the recognitions, we came up with a relatively rational and fast procedure. These actions, as has been said, have been known to last for years and are now truly being resolved within 60 days. And I am particularly pleased to see that this law provides that candidates will no longer need to be recognised to bring their translated programmes with, say, higher education institutions. These were very extensive materials for which professional translations were required, which are very, very much known and costable and here I am glad that there will be no need to collect all that documentation and that means translate. I'm saying it from personal experience, I did it a few years ago, and it was really quite complicated, much more complicated than it is now. In our these torments the entire system which in those ten years of practice and training happened there was everything so we had cases where students who graduated from Oxford, London school of economics, Cambridge, etc. they could not recognise their qualifications in the Republic of Croatia while we had, for example, people who came with diplomats of some obscenities and suspicious titles which, for example, received titles in Croatia to the doctor of science. There have been all sorts of examples, and today many of our fellow citizens suffer the consequences of that time and of this failure to find a system. So, for example, from my closest example, the University of Trieste has where there is a college that is best in Europe for translation, for simultaneous translators and interpretations, where simply people who have completed that study could not prove in Croatia that it is a university because in a literal translation of schools called high school and it is almost absurd to do this literary translation, that it is a literal translation of the very name of the university itself that could not be qualified which de facto is a university education. These are some basic things that I hope are exceeded. And I'm glad to hear that, so when will students come from some famous university and qualifications that have already been recognised be automatically recognized and continued. The same problem was faced either by very similar high school students who spent a year or a certain time in high school education sometimes in extremely well - known and well - known international schools. These students had to basically repeat the class in the Republic of Croatia. For the European Union or the United States, they were scholarships, they were excellent students, and when they went back to further schooling in the Republic of Croatia, they had to repeat the class and thus they were severely cut off and they may have lost some opportunities in life. This law also solves it and makes it much simpler. I am saying this because I come from an area where many citizens of the Republic of Croatia go to school first and foremost in the countries of the current European Union, Slovenia and Italy. So I'm glad to see that we've come up with some over-regulatory stuff about it. The only doubt I have about this is whether we really need to separate procedures on professional recognition and academic recognition of higher education qualifications. Can't this process be united, so let one request be filed, and then let two bodies confess differently, one professionally, the other academically. But I don't see any reason why this procedure should be done twice. And this only increases costs and takes time for citizens who have acquired their qualifications abroad, and they want and work and are further educated in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71530	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71531	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few actually sentences I think two might be notes. I support law-making, as I think we all need to support all those solutions that sort of facilitate and speed up the procedure. And this law is to say so on that trail. However, there are several things that I am sure are not really solved by this law, which are essentially causing people much more problems than legal solutions themselves. So the first thing is and I have to say it here even though I said it on the board stories of recognition of foreign qualifications to continue schooling, which I am now procedurally saying so in the first degree shifts to schools. So, elementary or secondary, or colleges personally I must admit that I have a dilemma whether these institutions have enough capacity to in one quite... So to tell the system that governments in many foreign education systems can adequately recognise the qualifications achieved by that more that we do not have to say so neither our qualification framework created nor our curricula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I put it in a sense to say so to the solution, although the arguments that say that in one part actually facilitate the procedure or reduce by one step the students are really the ones that need to be respected. But I'm not quite sure about the capacities of primary and secondary schools and people who work there to know all these challenges of diversity to say yes. The second observation may be a little bit more substantial, because it is actually based on our education system, unfortunately, being terribly formal. He's almost hypernormized in all of his aspects. This is otherwise not good, and this is especially not good when we speak in this part of the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. So one level reached, up to one level of education reached. What exactly am I thinking about? We have in our schools, and even at the university very rigid teaching programs that are read almost exclusively formally, and less in the sense of content or time. And in fact, in some ways people who come to Croatia, even though we gave up nostrification as a concept we mentally still, the system is mentally looking for actually in some way a nostrification of documents. We, rather than confessing to them what is nominally and legally necessary, should be to give him educational qualifications, we force people to overwrite that qualification they acquired into something our system or our labour market can read and it's simply not good. Let's say one case of a colleague of one who studied outside astro physics, completed a pedagogical psychological education, and let's say he doesn't allow himself to work as a physics professor because our programs say that this, our rules say that it can only be a professor or a physics engineer with an additional pedagogical psychological education and say that astro physics study is not your physics, although it is actually something and it seems to me a little bit more than physics. So we force people into our drawers not so much in terms of the formal recognition. No, we'll admit that the man has VSS. However, in the sense that a person has to live or work with it, he comes into trouble and must actually take a terrible number of different tests. Modern systems in Europe and the world go more to specializations, to some related professions, people do combinations almost unimaginable, especially for our vastly formal system of unimaginable combinations that we don't even know how to read at all. And it seems to me, Mr. Secretary of State, that, apart from this formal system, we need, in fact, a change in the paradigm of thinking about the degree of qualification itself, and that we are in fact in some way estimating what man knows by not putting him in what we have recognized for years through titles of such or such. An example of another. It seems to me that my colleague Verbat has already mentioned it. Our high school students, for example, who decide to go to high school for example to go to America, finish one high school class, the second or third grade for them is a lost year. They consciously go to school abroad for a year knowing that when they return they go back to where they stopped. So they finish third grade in America. He has to re-enter third in Croatia because in this rigid reading of our programs we say they didn't have a geography, mathematics or what I know objects that we have very many actually teaching subjects, and we don't actually read the system about some time spent on learning, about acquired skills. And in that sense, our education system, primarily then and all the procedures that come out of it, will need to be significantly loosened, in a way to relax, make it more content and less formal. Or another example that shows another kind of negativity, there are people who actually take advantage of that formality in our system. For example, for example, the case of school principals, who are senior experts, who must acquire high professional training in order to meet the legal standards. Some countries in our environment have recognized this, and for a certain amount of money do actually requalification, and this is what we say through the sides, through this process of recognition of foreign qualifications is recognised as, for example, a particularly high professional cook, because it meets all formal conditions although it does not satisfy almost any of the content conditions. These people didn't study, they didn't spend time there, they just got along and used a hole in the system. So maybe I'll come to a conclusion somewhere. The key problem with us in the education system is that we look at everything through formal qualifications, through the formal name of that qualification, not through its own, not through its content. When we add this hyper normity to that picture, because in our education almost everything is prescribed to how many teacher reviews to which house he has to print, we really come to one little bit for people and schizophrenic situations, which have finished schooling, have acquired one maybe different or other kind of knowledge or specific knowledge, and then return to Croatia, they want to admit that acquired qualification, then we make them pass 10 or a few 10 classified exams, so that we can put them in the home professor of this or that, or a graduate engineer of this or that. And in that it seems to me to be actually our biggest problem. Not in the very procedure of recognising foreign qualifications, which is still somewhat improved here, but in fact in the very content itself, what we are mentally conscious or unconsciously, and as individuals who work in the system, and as a system we are actually asking people to do in some way impossible to implement these solutions, and this European to say the space of common and education, and then the workforce, we are actually doing the opposite of what should be. This is also a criticism of what the current government is doing, but in fact some perhaps dominant mentality where we like to name everything, and the 21st century seems to me to be asking for a change in the paradigm on the one hand, and on the other hand a proper evaluation of those things that need to be evaluated, and only in the second degree to give some mark. Because it seems to me that more and more often we will be able to put people in our homes, and we will have to accept and accept a variety of, more diversity, interdisciplinaryism and many other things that we don't even think about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71532	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71533	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. If this law had been passed earlier, many unpleasant situations would have been avoided, which entertained the Croatian public as a ribbon in the last year or two, related to the recognition of some high school certificates for persons who had completed one or two classes outside the Republic of Croatia, so they returned to the country to continue their education. And while their case was solved by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, so while solving the validity of the second-class testimony, the girl was already at prom. And instead of acknowledging the silence of the administration, it was like a tape drawn to our media, whether it had enough knowledge or remained unrated from German, and the fact is, for example, in that German language in German school, it received positive grades and not only positive grades, but brilliant grades from objects such as history, physics, mathematics, etc. Without knowledge of German, she could not be well rated from these cases. But she probably didn't know enough German enough to read "Young Werther's suffering" or so on, but it wasn't enough for all our ministry to solve the case quickly and promptly, she said, she can't, but it also caused frustration and parents, both students and ultimately the general public. My emphasis is that the labour market today knows only skills, and that is what the system needs to be based on. You can't create a strict system in a way that puts everything in drawers. For example, the Anglo-Saxon system knows the synergy that includes both mathematics and physics, and biology and chemistry. So where are those particulars and these are now chemistry, this is physics, or no testimony or diploma is not valid because it can't be painted into our system. This law is a significant step towards resolving entropy in the area. It should be supported, but the Empire teaches us that somewhere around 2013 at 2014 we will also change it because we change it periodically every three years. For example, we will also have to change it because our system does not recognise us, and it does not allow co-creation of the programme together with employers and the labour market, and we know that the free movement of goods, capital, people, services and the basis of Chapter 1, negotiating chapter 1, and, for example, when assessing the conformity of some economic operators, laboratories, expert teams, organisations, European norms require explicit informal and informative education, evaluation of that education and its inclusion in work processes. However, how to formalise such education remains one of the permanent tasks of our system, especially the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and I hope that this problem will eventually be devoted to real attention and find some sort of solution in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71534	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 738 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, this amendment is accepted by the applicants and is not particularly voted in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure and becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 98 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71537	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 58th session held on 8 April 2011 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Therefore, a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament from the order of HUP representative Bernard Jakelic is dismissed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71538	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who is it, including who is in favour of this proposal or against? The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 91 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. We're moving on to another proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71539	Here is a proposal from the Committee to resolve the member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and Science, Nada Zgrapic Rotar, on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71540	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's please get involved and vote on the committee's proposal. Thank you, ma'am. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 91 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, the session continues on Wednesday 13 April at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda point - a proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding Act between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in an interoperable solution for the European Public Administration (ISA) programme with a final draft of the law, P.Z. No. 732, emergency procedure. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71541	In the follow-up to today's session we have prepared and envisaged 2 unique final reports, i.e. the Final List - The Single and Final List for the selection of the President of the Committee for Conflict of Interest - The Single Final List for the selection of members of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest The List has been prepared by the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and I therefore ask the President-in-Office of the Committee, Nevenko Majdenić, to give us an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71542	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament shall be in accordance with Article 32(8). The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with 6 votes in favour and 1 abstention, have drawn up a single final list for the selection of the President of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest here is which we are submitting to the Croatian Parliament. So, the committee proposes the next candidate to elect the chairman of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest and is the first Sanja Lozancic, a graduate lawyer and other Dora Rešetar, a graduate lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71543	I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Here you go, distinguished colleague Doric. ... So bring out the second, normal and list for the members, and then let the debate come together. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you agree? Okay, here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the same session, the Committee unanimously drawn up a single final list of candidates for members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and we propose the following candidates for the selection of members, 1. Dani Budimir, graduate lawyer, 2. Irena Ćupić graduated social educator, 3. Dijanu Dulibic Vlahov graduated lawyer, 4. Robert Jambrović, graduate lawyer, 5th mr. Rajko Kneglin, graduate economist, 6. Jadranka Kolarević graduated political scientist, 7. “ I’m a student, ” 5 / 8 Dinka Prce graduate lawyer, 9. Dora Rešetar graduated from law school and 10. The Turtle's degree in law school. It is necessary to say that by law we must and must have a double number of candidates. Therefore, one member is elected to the president and of these proposed members of the Committee for the Decision on a conflict of interest should then be elected by 4 candidates and by a secret vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71545	Thank you very much, colleague. Here you go on behalf of... So you can come here too, dear colleague Doric, for the record to be on behalf of the HNS-HSU club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71546	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The establishment of the Commission itself to decide on a conflict of interest in our club even a few years ago was assessed as a top, significant and great achievement. We have, however, since then, received the basis of a number of EU delegations and a series of objections to our work and the responsibility of the committee, or commission, and I must say that in the debates we have always sought the best solution to essentially extend what we have done by amending and supplementing the law, and we have professionalised the composition by claiming that it is also a depolitisation of the clear work of the commission. However, how much depolitical is it if, in fact, the parliamentary majority votes again and decides on the composition of the commission? We cannot say that there is no possibility of direct political influence on the selection of members. For this reason, we are at the HNS-HSU club, remember when we were supplementing the law, we suggested that members and presidents be elected by a two-thirds majority. To simply force us to sit together, to pass professional life and to choose from 4.5 million citizens in Croatia 4, or 5 of the most qualified, most professional people who deal with this problem. That was the goal, unfortunately we don't seem to have reached our goal. We have excluded from the law the criteria of experience regarding work in the field of conflict of interest. We only left a certain number of years of work in the profession, we didn't say which. And look what we got? We've received candidates from a wide range of professions, many of which have nothing to do with conflict of interest or have ever done anything in this area. I'm not saying I can't learn, I'm not saying they're incapable of mastering it for a while, but it's definitely not about people who would be the best quality in the area. However, a large number of candidates reported, they are employees of the Parliament, so they just want to move what's logical because we gave them the opportunity for two, three times the paid job of which some of them have also never worked with honorable exceptions in the business, in this profession. For this reason, I am, and I apologize to my colleague Majdenic for this, I have not come to the last two sessions when he decided on it, my club insisted that I withdraw, that I do not participate in this process precisely for the reasons that I have now stated. We think that if you look at the candidates that probably the future composition won't be any better, the question is whether they'll be as good as the current one. I believe that Mr. Kacan did a great job, Mr. Tomljanović as a lawyer did a great job, Mr. Petrovic, an excellent knowledge of matter, did a very good job and instead of keeping and finding criteria to keep these people in the system, we clearly went to another extreme and we are not clear for us at least in our HNS HSU Club what we set our goal. For this reason we won't be participating in the vote tomorrow, I have to say this here and I want to say because I think we could have really done a lot to avoid what happened to us three years ago with the Desa Milkettin Tomic case. When one name was forced, one person clearly made sense to most people, I don't think that's good, and it must never happen to us again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71547	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Any more requests to discuss? There isn't. If not, then I conclude the debate and, as has already been said, the vote is a secret statement, so today it is stated that everything could be prepared technically. That's why we're scheduled to vote tomorrow at 11:00, so I'm inviting you to meet me by then. And tomorrow's work continues at 9:30 with the 12th agenda is the 2010 HBOR Work Report. And I'm concluding today, I've said it twice, I'm closing today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71548	Does he have a choice of appointments? Okay. I didn't see it here. Here you go, Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71549	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 63rd session held on 19 June 2011, the Committee for Election, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the proposal to appoint a member of the Croatian Employers' Association Davor Majetic in the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71550	I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. Let's please get involved and vote on the Committee's proposal. Score. This proposal was accepted by the majority of 84 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, the election of presidents and members of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and in accordance with Article 231 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will hold a secret vote. The proposed candidates for presidents and members of the Committee shall be considered elected if they are voted by the majority of the total number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, so at least 77. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that three MPs help me conduct a secret vote and that is what I propose to Emil Tomljanović, Boris Klemenic and third, are you Mrs. Zgrebec there yet or did you leave? And Mr. Ivica Pancic. I'd thank you for that honor, but I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71556	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members and members, respected MPs and MPs. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 65th session held on 1 July 2011 unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Sports Council. First, a member of the National Sports Council Antun Vrdoljak is dismissed at the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee. And secondly, to be a member of the National Sports Council on the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Miho Glavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71557	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Let's please get involved and vote on a proposal to appoint a board member. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 90 votes in favour, one abstention and one against. Crossing point – Selection and appointments. I ask Mrs Majdenic, the chairman of the board, Nevenka Majdenic to show himself about this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71559	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 67th session held on 14 July 2011 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the mandate of members of the National Health Council. First, for members of the National Health Council is named academician Zeljko Rainer, Prof. Dr. Kresimir Rotim, Prof. Dr. Alen Suštić, Prof. Dr. Mate Ljubičić, Prof. Dr. Kresimir Glava, Prof. Dr. Stipan Jankovic, Prof. Dr. Jadranka Sertić, Prof. Dr. Branka Wisner and Zdenka Gizdić. And secondly, former members of the National Health Council over the legal period of four years, so the mandate ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-08-0.u71560	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal. There's no interest. I hereby conclude the debate and propose a selection committee, appointing it to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, dear MPs and dear representatives, we ended up so-called. Spring session of the Croatian Parliament. I announce that at the fall session that will carry number 24 we will continue to work. It'll probably be in the second half of nine months. What date, we don't know now. We wish you a pleasant holiday to fill your already exhausted perhaps batteries and to come fresh and rested and orna to continue work in the autumn when we will also complete the session of this meeting of the Croatian Assembly. I want you to have it all comfortable and see me in the fall, and now I invite you to one, let's say such a humble reunion for the end of this session in the rooms here near. And here's happy and all the best. Thank you very much.
