ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76934	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. Here is, therefore, the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, the situation of both the Government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course the Resorient Ministry of Culture related to these amendments and additions to the laws, which followed the meeting of the National Security Council, with the explicit aim of improving transparency and better identifying the ownership structure in the media. So before you is the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which the Government has referred to in the parliamentary procedure under emergency procedure, and in order to ensure better respect for the provisions on transparency of ownership. By passing the Law on Electronic Media two years ago, the Republic of Croatia carried out the latest alignment with the latest European Union directives on audiovisual media services, and one important part of this law also concerns the issue of ownership in electronic media and the issue of award, i.e. the possibility of transferring concessions. I would just like to point out that these amendments are also related to the European Commission, which is also consulted in that Media Act, amendments and additions to the Media Act that we will have, which will follow the debate behind this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, gave a positive opinion, which is sufficiently saying that we are on the right track about the transparency of ownership, and the transparency of media action. Following the application of this law and of previous laws, as well as the work of the Electronic Media Council, which oversees the work of publishers, a number of developments in respect of the legal provisions relating to electronic media are visible. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, which is before you, will therefore improve the provision of the Law on Electronic Media, which determines the transparency of the ownership structure and, in particular, regarding this Law on Electronic Media, specifically prohibits the transfer of concessions from publishers to publishers. Allow me to be more specific here about these amendments and additions, so the provision of Article 52 on the transparency of the ownership structure of media service providers is specified, in such a way as to prescribe the obligation to deliver to the Council for Electronic Media certified copies and documents on the acquisition of shares or shares in the media service provider. Furthermore, legal transactions aimed at concealing the ownership structure of media service providers or the ownership of stakeholders or shares in media service providers are prohibited. Furthermore, legal transactions covering up the ownership structure of media service providers or the ownership of stockholders or the share of media service providers are found to be worthless. Infringement provisions governing the supply of data and the ID of the Council for Electronic Media shall be specified. The maximum penalty is also imposed up to a million kunas, and I must say that it is particularly important for this law to say that concessions are prohibited from certain publishers and service providers, media services to another media service provider. I believe that these amendments and additions to the law, as it was found on the parent board yesterday, are an important step forward, that this will contribute naturally to the transparency of the work of the media, of course without any ambition to influence these changes in any way in the media, except with the desire to highlight the importance of transparency of ownership in electronic media, as one of the important things to say to the public opinion formator in the Republic of Croatia. Here, if there were any further questions, it could be further referred to these changes and complements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76935	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76936	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly, Mr. Minister. I'm glad you're here today, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, which relate above all to the nomination of the ownership structure which has been very often strange or under strange circumstances, or were involved in this by a third party, as would be said, and in fact the real owners were hiding is a good, good bill of law. So clearly one clean-up needs to be driven out, it needs to be seen and owned, and so all that stands behind an individual electronic medium. All this is nice and wonderful if it would contribute, as well as the fight against corruption and crime and all that is happening in these and other media, as well as in the entire Croatian society that we witness daily and we have witnessed all and various affairs that occur from day to day. If in electronic media, and certainly our state agency HINA is also an electronic medium that has developed and its own to say that I once called it in this Assembly a mini Google, so on. "media monitoring", and it is known who is behind HINA, clearly it is the state of Croatia, it is all of us, the Croatian people, it is the agency in the 100% ownership of the state of Croatia and the holder of ownership is completely clear. Although the holder of ownership is perfectly clear, although HINA ours works under the clearly prescribed HINA Act, although it pays VAT 23% unlike some who pay 10% or as such. HRT on a TV subscription fee has no VAT at all, other media are paying 10% VAT, HINA 23% even though it is our state agency. But as that promotional message says, and not only that, although to say HINA, it has developed the range of its products such as "media monitoring" yet some private companies with an unclear owner of ownership and with more expensive services get jobs and that with the ministries. The state ministry, the state agency cheaper than others, but private owners get jobs starting with Mr. Fuchs' Ministry of Education, Schools, etc. to your ministry, etc. Why is that? I'll tell you right now, Mr. Jasena Mesic, and you've had and you've been introduced to such things when there is, for example, an example. One, do you want me to tell you the name of the company publicly or should I whisper it to you later? ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the services offered by HINA to ministries, public services and companies were very often refused, and the services of electronic media and private services hidden behind them, for example, were accepted. Brother Goran Hadzic, etc. in the Republic of Croatia. By whose order and by whose order? So I'm saying that this law that is, it has good intentions and that it is brought in good faith that already once it is known who is behind which media and that sanctions for any violations will not be brought in much if it is done as it is now done, and the Croatian State, Croatian taxpayers and we all lose together when all the damages that come from private channels and competitions that we know are going to and how to execute are lost and millions of kunas. The HDSB will be to accept this legislative proposal, not to say that we are not, that we are not to say in terms of parliamentaryism any way to say vandal or whatever you want, so constructive and good transparent legislative proposals will always be supported, but the implementation of such legal proposals is also very important and the thinking of the Croatian state, Croatian taxpayers is even more important than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76937	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Representative, Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76938	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal to amend the Law on Electronic Media shall specify in fact the provision set out in Article 52 which refers to the transparency of the ownership structure of publishers and the ownership structure of media service providers. Thus, we have already heard the opening in the address of the Minister, the publishers are obliged to deliver to the Council for Electronic Media, with certified views of the document on the acquisition of shares or shares in the publisher by 31 January. Today in Croatia, I will just remind you, 27 television publishers plus HRT, or 158 radio publishers plus HR, and in the last 5 years 355 electronic publications have been registered. When we talk about television and radio publishers, especially those who are participating funds from the Pluralism Fund, those without a clear ownership structure as now proposed in these changes will no longer be able to even try to apply for funds that are especially for those, and we all know that very well at local levels, of great importance for the implementation of the programme. We have also heard that it is prescribed that the transfer of concessions to carry out the activities of providing media services to TV and radio to another person as well as infringing provisions is not allowed. Some believe there may have been more, but this is how they are expressed in the proposal. We often talk to the media and we want them to be independent, and this is also one of the most important ways to enable the independence of work and enable a number of journalists who are doing their job professionally to protect their work and protect their dignity, not to question whether there is a capital dictatorship, but also to question the abuse of media or media space. In line with all this, the HDZ Club will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76939	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76940	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Representatives and Representatives. I'd like to start by saying that the House of Representatives Club of the HSS will support the adoption of this law. We think this law is a step forward and therefore the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support it. We think that this is also a step forward towards media independence, and we want to say from this speaker that ethical journalism has no alternative and should not be under pressure of various interests, and especially not under the pressure of media owners as in most cases so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76941	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76942	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is a short law that, in five articles, only in five articles very clearly and decidedly treats property and public ownership issues in electronic media. As the predecessors said, the issue of ownership in electronic media has been current and so far, Article 52 of the new law that we passed here in December 2009. This proposal for a law simply strengthens ownership control mechanisms in electronic media so that, with the obligation that the publishers had until 31 January of each year, they were obliged to deliver to the Council for Electronic Media as a regulatory body the structure of ownership and with a statement as to how many shares or shares the owner has in that ordered electronic media, however, the strengthening of the control mechanism is seen as being laid down in this proposal to provide certified reviews of the documents on the acquisition of shares or shares in that media service provider during the previous year. The other provisions remain the same and normally in the provisions of the article of the law which provides for sanctions, namely criminal provisions, to be supplemented and associated with this supplement. Another thing that is important in electronic media when we talk about television and radio publishers, and here is a major change, is that no longer allow the transfer of concessions to carry out the activity of providing media services to the other person. Otherwise, it was made possible by the existing law, and the old law on electronic media when we aligned it with the concession law, that provision stood. Clearly, all concession procedures initiated under the old law will be suspended on the date of entry into force of this law. Therefore, in any case, I support the proposals' efforts, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to make efforts on the public ownership both in electronic and in written, printed media to strengthen control mechanisms and in the hope that all those in charge of monitoring the implementation of this law will also make efforts, and that owners are obliged to comply with this law. From what I have been told, I will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76943	Thank you. Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76944	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to say at the beginning of my debate right now is that I'm supporting this bill for the reason that I think that the adoption of this law is kind of a fight against the concealment of the property structure, and here's how we have a detailed explanation. This law provides for the provision of Article 32 on the transparency of the ownership structure of media service providers in such a way as to prescribe the obligation to provide electronic media to the Council certified copies of the documents on the acquisition of shares or shares in the media service provider. Furthermore, this proposal prohibits legal transactions aimed at concealing the ownership structure of media service providers or ownership, acquisition of shares or shares in the media service provider. This legislative proposal shall introduce and specify the infringement provisions governing the supply of data and the ID of the Council for Electronic Media. Furthermore, all concession procedures for the provision of media services, television and radio services initiated under the applicable law are prescribed to be suspended on the date of entry into force of this law. This law shall be adopted in accordance with the conclusions of the National Security Council of the Republic of Croatia, and its primary objective shall be to prevent and criminally sanction the concealment of the ownership structure of media service providers and the non-publishment of data on shareholders and shareholders. I am convinced that this bill will achieve a purpose. I think this law is support for the independence of the media in Croatia. Furthermore, I think this law and instrument is against any and any abuse of the media. Here's what I've said once again, and I'm saying that I support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76945	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76946	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So here's a few more words about this. In fact, I think we're all happy to welcome this bill because it was really necessary. Listening to media owners, we can conclude that property changes every few days because even the most famous TV house is simply today the story is the owner of this, tomorrow the one, and as far as we've seen the property in a particular section and change, but not transparently. And it's not just TV houses. It's also in small, larger radio stations. Also, what would be good to follow the way of presentation more closely, the way to inform the public is certainly necessary and property. Therefore, owners can interfere, do not have to interfere, but very often interfere with editorial policy where they will clearly try harder and earn what is also the goal of the private media. But also fast change can hurt. We had a number of changes in the loud Radio 101 that fought for its time democracy and in the end of that democracy turned out to be a big robbery and deception. And the fact that it's good to know who did what in the whole story. Looks like those 101 champions robbed the most, and now he's pretty quiet about it, but it's good to know. If we look at our national TV house and people here are asking themselves the question of who actually owns it, because obviously it's not all happening exactly the way it's supposed to be. But here's hoping one day with a new programming board and a supervisory board and a new administration, the new old administration will get better and I guess so. Because here are some faces appearing there all the time without their counselors many. Some of them are a little rarer and things like that. But okay, about that. Local media are also extremely important because they are very much viewed in this area and there are often changes in owners, but I don't think it's too transparent and here it's very good that the concession can't actually be sold, taught, in a variety of ways. Because that's where he really needs to be consistent. In fact, whoever won the concession probably has the conditions. Then someone who doesn't have the conditions, and actually people don't even know it. Normally, the big media is expecting a big profit. That's for sure. But in that case we need to know property, because we often ask ourselves here and in conflict of interest whether someone in the ownership structure is media or not. Because there have been reports like that, there have been cases like this, and it's been very difficult to determine. So, transparent ownership in any case will help better understand media space and I think all users of that media space will be grateful anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76947	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I'd like to warn you, so I'll do it again later. In fact, we're going to complete the agenda today with a lot more points. However, we have until the 15th to discuss at least these legal proposals. So I would suggest that Monday he dedicate himself to the committees, so the committees on Monday. We'd start at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday morning, without a break, we'd be working on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and by some times we'd estimate how long. Why? So that we may not be tempted to convene an extraordinary session. I think it can be avoided if we agree on this then we start at 9:00 on Tuesday and all that time starts at 9:00 and that's half the hour we get without a break. Then it's 2 hours a day, so we can also shorten the length of work that day if we finish the scheduled part of the agenda. Here's what I'll do when we vote. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 848, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76950	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, before you the text of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act, which the Government has sent to the parliamentary procedure under emergency procedure, and in order to ensure better respect for the provisions on transparency of ownership in the media. Aware of the need to ensure full independence of the media, but also aware of the responsibilities and roles that the media play in our society in the adoption of media laws, we were guided by the principle of the importance of ensuring full media independence in terms of editorial freedoms and on the trail we made all changes to the rules and proposed new ones. At the same time, faced with the sudden expansion of the media market after a decade in which private media initiative was not allowed, laws should be passed to encourage private capital investment in the media to ensure, through pluralism of ownership, the overall pluralism of the media market. However, to protect pluralism, it is important to make crystal clear to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who owns a particular media and for a number of reasons. First of all, to prevent illicit concentrations that have a devastating effect on media pluralism and to avoid any hidden owner that affects editorial policy. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Media Act will contribute to better application of the media law provisions governing the transparency of the ownership structure of media publishers and will prevent and criminally sanction the concealment of media ownership structures. More specifically, the amendments to the provisions of Article 32 on the transparency of the ownership structure of publishers will be made in such a way as to prescribe the obligation to submit to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce certified copies of the documents on the acquisition of shares or shares in the publisher. Legal transactions aimed at concealing the ownership structure of publishers or the ownership of shareholders or shares in the legal person of publishers shall also be prohibited. It is also found that legal transactions that cover up the ownership structures of publishers or ownership of shareholders or shares in a legal person, that they are harmful, and also specify criminal provisions and determine the maximum fines up to a million kuna. I also want to say that this draft bill on amendments to the Media Act, that was... The European Commission, of which we have received a positive opinion, is precisely on the basis of this commitment and the fight for transparency in the media, particularly the ownership structure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, I would like to point out that these amendments and additions to the Media Act were not intended to cover, within this short period, all those initiatives that existed and existed in recent years, whether from a journalistic society, whether even from the parent parliamentary committees, which are related to this topic, but were important to carry out precisely this intervention in law with the aim of ensuring transparency of the ownership structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76951	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76952	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, So here is a draft proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act, which is changing, here are only a few articles, but I think these changes are extremely important. This draft law provides for the provision of Article 32 on the transparency of the ownership structure of publishers, in such a way as to apply the obligation to submit to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce certified copies of the documents on the acquisition of shares and shares to the publisher. Furthermore, this proposal prohibits legal transactions aimed at concealing the ownership structure of publishers or the ownership of the acquisition of shares or the share of the administrative person of the publishers. This proposal also provides that legal transactions that cover up the ownership structure of publishers owned by stockholders or shares in the legal person of the publisher are worthless. Infringements are also prescribed, misdetermining provisions governing the delivery of data and documents to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are specified, and criminal liability is introduced, fines amount to one million kuna. It is important to say that the adoption of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, and the provisions before this proposal of the law regulate the transparency of the ownership structure of media publishers and what is important to say, which is that it will prevent and criminally sanction the concealment of media ownership structures. I think it's good to say that this proposal to amend and supplement the Media Act would not have been able to say anything, and there was an opportunity to hear it in the media, but we would not be able to say it in any way to put pressure on the media, any pressure on the media, but this law certainly wants to help in some way the future independence of the media, the further goal is to achieve a clear ownership structure of media publishers. I think these are good changes, and we at the HDZ Club are satisfied with these changes and changes, amendments and additions to the Media Law, and we believe that these changes and additions will indeed achieve a goal that has been outlined. The following are all the above mentioned clubs of the Croatian Democratic Community, which support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Media Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76953	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76954	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with an associate, and colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Media Act here is only different in one word, which is the electronic media, and these are the media, so the media in the Republic of Croatia, whether at this general level, were local media, so the proposals are the same to get to know the titlemaker, and I believe that many things in the content of these media would be recognized, so the content of the media is very often closely related to the interests of the ownership structure, and now it is very complex and very often unrecognizable, and then citizens can actually be easily disoriented through news, comment, column and other things that are listed in these written media. Not only are the interest groups connected with the owners or the media owner, so they create a fake picture of someone, whether it is embellished, whether it is either in epithets, whether it is offended about certain political options, whether it is individuals, and prove what is written in the media, so what is once published, or unmanaged or tried, I always say that it is the first news 95% of the reader's impression, and the denials or court proceedings corrects only 5% because of this, the HDSSB club will be so to accept and raise the hand of this proposal or the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Media Act, but I have to tell Mr. Minister that it would be much better if we knew and how many certain media, but we can't find out because the Ministry of Finance answered to my written inquiry how much one media owner owes to the Croatian state, to say to the people, and to the people, and to the other, the tax against the tax that it's. It is true that it is against the interest of the taxpayer if he owes hundreds of millions of kuna to the Croatian state. And then we have the budget holes, and then we have the budget deficit. If there are such, I don't know how many, not only in the media but others who have a privileged position in the Tax Administration and the inspection and for years they owe hundreds of millions of kuna and only have VAT 10% on the media, and the rest of the citizens pay 23%. What's that? Tax secret, Ministry of Finance's secret. He says only in the light of my written inquiry I got the answer that it can be found only in the case of criminal proceedings or persecution. Well, I'm not a cadiya, I'm neither suing nor judging, but as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia I've sought and prayed and I'd like to know how many owners known or unknown, who hides behind whom, whose capital is there, whose shares are there, so how much they owe from their regular business to the Croatian state. Now, this law would not solve it, a legal proposal, but in any case, to make it much clearer to us if we knew how the wind blew clearly knowing the ownership structure then we would know both the news structure and the structure of the content of these media. And we'd be clear why it's written like this, like that, why sometimes it's not true, and we could go ahead and predict what they're going to write. And then that end consumer, the buyer of the media, the newspaper, would be able to focus on that ownership structure whether he buys that newspaper in the morning at the kiosk or won't buy a newspaper because he knows what'll be there to welcome him and what he'll write there. It is true that there is a need for transparency of ownership, as I say owner of ownership, but it is true that transparency of the business of these media is also needed. Unfortunately, this mess and intransparency of business in Croatia is in charge of inspections that do not do their job. Or they're dependent on the media and on the image that this mass media is going to create of someone. So not only is the interest group involved in ownership and interest in the media but also politics. And we know that well. Because we need to lie or do we need to look each other in the eye that it is? That's right. This is just the initial step, this legislative proposal, which is being determined and which I hope, in good faith, alone, is that the intention of both the ministries and the government is finally to find out. Although there are a variety of rumors, both the owner of Germany and Turkey and Cyprus and the Cayman Islands, and I don't know from where, the owner of the Seikel of our media. God forbid we can have your faith, Mr. Minister, that we'll finally find out about it with this bill and we'll know about it. God forbid we know that, but I'm afraid every law has its own holes, so you'll probably have very skilled people using any holes, too, but I'd like it not to be. But I would like any law to be passed, any regulations, provisions, etc., by which these same media, whose owners are very well-intentioned monetary, financial and which have absolutely certainly their own interests towards the Republic of Croatia, whether or not to say strategic interests, from various globalisation objectives, etc. So it should also determine the transparency of the business of such "magnets" under quotes sometimes, newspapers tycoons and other tycoons. Therefore, as a first step, according to this transparency, as it is said in politics or clarity, what would be a more beautiful Croatian word for clarity of ownership is, the head of ownership of the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76955	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76956	Thank you very much, esteemed President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome and support the proposed law in order to increase the transparency of each business entity and in particular the media. The proposed changes will, I believe, end the concealment of the ownership structure as well as the abuse of non-transparency of investment with all forms of crime related to investment in equity shares in the media. And that is what the National Security Council has pointed out. The media's responsibility is in objectivity and truthfulness. Unfortunately, journalism in Croatia, with honorable exceptions from day to day, falls on the ever lower branches of our country. Spreading lies, half-truths, insinuation often corresponds to some media owners or some other powerful ones. Journalists themselves are shyly warning that today's journalism often threatens rather than protects, promotes fundamental human rights and freedoms. Many journalists are in an unspeakable situation under the horse chain system where your boss tells you to. They often write in a way that doesn't suit their personal perception, but they don't have a choice because it's their actual existence. And the media owner is primarily just profit. In this context, we often talk about manipulation rather than information. For media owners, the goal is very clear. Money and money and only money regardless of victims and ruined lives. Many powerful people, from owners to major advertisers and some political powermakers, are involved in the press profession. The professional public and some journalists warn of this problem, but no one hears them. Money is still the primary criterion in our journalism that's what could have happened to us. Journalists are getting more and more underpaid today, and they are working in growing working legal uncertainty, but I find many humiliations to be the most to blame for themselves. Although I support the proposed changes, it should be stressed that they will not in themselves bring the desired positive shifts in the Croatian media space. Various regulators, overseers, or whatever we call them so far, and in the future, it is really those who should be far more responsible for their work than they are doing today or what they have done to date. Having ownership of the media, except for many privileges implies, and what many like to forget and enormous social power. Unfortunately, responsibility is often forgotten. I believe that sensational journalism has no future in Croatia, at least not in the long run. I believe that journalists themselves will point out more loudly to the daily collapse of the profession and to their own working legal uncertainty and prevent all those who would like to turn the media into muddy waters that will hide many secrets, and eventually sink those journalists themselves. Advocating the transparency of ownership of media and the fight for genuine freedom of the media, as a right to true information, is one of the fundamental human rights and should be a priority in a society that wants to cultivate the highest standards of democracy. In that sense, journalists first need to stand up to defend the integrity of the profession with the support of all of us. Not only the moral but also the real one that we will show by proposing and adopting the law which will restore journalism in Croatia to the respectable level that belongs to it. And once again, the task of the media is to promote democracy, to report on all important social processes, but true and promote fundamental human rights, but not to be threatened so often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76957	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76958	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In any case, this is a good topic that my colleague Kunst started, and these are journalists. In fact, journalists are often not aware of who is responsible for the cancellations they receive because the cancellations are not given to them by the owners. The owners don't even know. But here's the guy who's in charge of this, he's handing it over to them in a slightly larger amount, and I think those reporters are definitely the first victims. I don't know that owners often choke the freedom of writing, that they change titles through the editors that often have nothing to do with the text we've heard from conversations with journalists, so not only do we ordinary mortals not know who the owners are, but neither do those who work in newspapers. And I think here property in name, which should be, in any case, very useful. Besides, I believe that even a number of readers don't know that several sheets are in the same possession. So now, especially at sea, they buy themselves a little more than a few newspapers, then they see everywhere are the same texts still, so they ask themselves that question, because it's often very well hidden, and especially in hidden ways that some have come to that property. Thus, transparency in any case will certainly come in handy. Here, which is very important, and what should be thought of is the implementation of this law. In fact, yesterday we heard that maybe the penalty is up to a million kuna, maybe too small, because if the owners are what is often said and what would be tycoons call them, a million kunas, maybe and there won't be any idea how much to keep breaking this law. So I believe that if there are problems in law enforcement, there will be certain changes. In fact, punishments seem large but those in the media area, which is often very expensive, are certainly not so. We are also asking ourselves whether a law on the financing of political parties is being violated through the media space. Because some media have a feeling that they're sponsors of political parties and that clearly non-transparent sponsors because they don't give money directly, but if they publish you the text of the page, two, three, four, then they must be very large and quality sponsors. We are also witnessing a media link to individual officials who can also be seen as sponsoring individual political parties. So any transparent ownership of a clear property that a colleague would say there will contribute to understanding the media space. There will be fewer surprises as to why there are so many commercials in certain lists, so so many advertising spaces occupy certain companies, and in fact there and there only whispers that these companies are actually in the good part of media ownership. Local media is much more transparent in my opinion. In the small environments, everything is known, and as much as it's shown in the local media, I think there's a much clearer story. In fact, we know that there's a tendency to some come on, we could tell the local officials, but there's a story much, much clearer. So, in the hope that it will continue to be monitored throughout this structure as we have seen with the application and control, that the implementation of the good law and the very necessary law will be monitored, here I believe that everything will still be much, much clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76959	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one is Mrs. Gyurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76960	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Markovanovic why I answered exactly because I knew what you were going to talk about right now, and I wanted to say the following. Here through two presses we've been following two feltons for a long time, one about the other Tito and Joanka, I guess that friend Tito was morally vertical about a communist, and Ivanka's fashion icon is now telling us how it's going to be when they turn red in Croatia. And the second feljton is about Father Milanovic, or the father of one party president Zoran, and we see that Zoki was small and so large. I don't know what we should learn from this feljton, I guess why Zoran Milanovic doesn't have an opinion, there's nothing to show for it, but now shut up right now because he doesn't know what he's going to do, and he wants Croatia red, too, thinks with the help of individuals that it's going to work. But what's symptomatic, in those press releases, I've never seen a single feljeton about innovators, students of V. High School, students of II. High schools that won prizes last year. I'm looking for comments or feletons about some cultural manifestations, we don't have any of that. This is just the part I wanted to say. If that's what it comes down to and that's the EPP and you said well, they're sponsored by different parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76961	Thank you. We have an answer, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76962	Well, it's true that the media is trying to highlight everything that some political parties have missed. In fact, several columnists from different newspapers helped the media in a number of ways that, in fact, the SDP would primarily compensate for all its failures and why it would not do so. And it's incomprehensible to them and all the criticism is actually going here, so it's kind of sponsoring if we're going to. So let's not be surprised at the felton, I think Grandpa's even mentioned it, but well, maybe we can see the family tree soon. So the present and future and so forth, so if that's the contribution, let's hope it won't be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76963	Thank you. We've got a second line. Madam representative of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76964	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not sure that this has increased a significant circulation, but here, they say every commodity has its buyer. You know what's the saddest thing, colleague Markovanovic? The worst thing that can happen to a journalist, and when we talk here about the Media Act, then I will only be on the printed media, that readers comment that, for example, in a daily list, the exact weather forecast is, and in part, a horoscope. Everything else is questionable. I think it's the most tragic thing that can happen to a journalist, and I believe we're going back to the scale of things, which are these changes, that this is exactly how it allows journalists to do their job responsibly and professionally, and not to question then everything that's written and put into question. So what we should talk about and repeat again is that there are numerous speculations, indications that because of the clear data in the ownership structure there is also so-called. black capital in the media and that's what we're actually talking about with these amendments to the Media Act. One more thing, it's a powerful anti-corruption tool, and I'm very surprised that neither the chairman of the Media Committee had the need here to publicly say what he supported on the Media Committee yesterday, that this law is good and that it's a good Law on Electronic Media. I'm surprised that such a powerful anti-corruption asset, but none of the colleagues from the Social Democratic Party had the need to publicly support it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76965	Answer, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76966	So here's the thing about trust in the media, sometimes people really used a happy sentence I read in the paper, I watched on TV, I listened on the radio, and it was an extremely strong argument, but both newspapers and radio and television were single-party, and then otherwise it shouldn't have even thought about it. So that's how it was. Today they're not single-party but most single-party media are in the majority of today, so they're trying to help what obviously won't help, to that extent at least to what they think, and I don't think that mildly said it's fair, but fair play often has nothing to do with ownership. If the owner is unknown then he can afford a lot of it. The famous owner will still take a little care of his consumers first of all because many entrepreneurs are in the media by their users because if he is, then it seems to me that he will lose more than he will in the whole story. And as for the very corruption in the media here, it would be a lot to talk about how they became owners of individual newspapers, individual electronic media and so on and so forth, I think it's time for us all to support the investigation to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76967	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Markovanovic, you said that workers very often, I would say mostly and do not know who owns the media in which they work. It may not even matter to them how important it is that in fact many there work on black, that black capital is spinning, that some in some large media houses receive half the salary in money, and half in some bonuses in collaboration with certain owners of supply chains, so as to expect free, let alone investigative journalism. And you said something else, that very often the media is sponsors of political parties writing in a certain way with a certain intensity, intent, but believe me, I read from the electronic media a list of donors or sponsors of a large political party, and on that list I found a direct and cash payment of a particular medium.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76969	Answer, Mr. Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76970	A colleague Grubisic would probably find more of these sponsorship findings if everything was actually going through the account, but as we said or more out of the account, these sponsorships are probably going in various ways. However, let's talk a little bit about employees still. Let's do a survey here, let's say, with journalists in the Croatian Parliament, how much was received indefinitely, and how much for a certain time. Namely, it is best for the media to receive workers indefinitely, journalists for a certain time because they are then addicts, and if they are addicts, then they must write, so without freedom, without any freedom, what the boss wants, and the editor implements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76971	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76972	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so this law, as you have said, brings transparency over the media, and it will probably reveal how the media is written, and when they do not report realistically, objectively, and we are witnessing daily after our discussions that clearly have their own phonogram that some of this is exemplified by someone's order, some of it is not published, some of it is not shown in public media, and we are printed that we are not even talking about. The segments of our statements have been dimmed and probably by someone's order and someone's payment have not been published. Many times insinuating, lying and slandering professional journalists allow themselves to put politicians on a pillar of shame. When complaints are filed against the same directors of such meals and lies, journalistic society, the protection of birds of singers and all others are raised to say that pressure is being placed on journalists when they are being sued for slander as the journalistic society does today against me when I sued Alexander Stankovic for the insults and slanders he has done to Croatian defenders. I also sued another journalist. Then they don't talk about professionalism, ethics, they don't talk about everything that journalistic society prescribes and cares about. Professionalism in fact, but with truth, true information and complete information. Surely transparency in ownership as well as transparency in funding or guidance is a very good thing and Mr. Markovanovic will certainly have a lot more discussions with the arguments that journalists and whose warrant they are working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76973	Thank you. Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76974	Well, here we have come to the subject of freedom of the media and whether it is necessary to sanction what is defamatory, which is deliberately written, what needs to be destroyed, and that is a subject that will long be withdrawn. And if you try anything, there's Mr. Duke and a team who'll be happy to protect the press, but they won't protect them if the big bosses fire them or with a delay of a few days here. If you look at the media a little, colleagues, Djakic, mentioning your name and the number of your paintings, you would think that the media is actually sponsoring you as a politician. But it's only until we look at the title and text, and when we look at the title and text, then we're very confident that they're the sponsors of the other side. Because in any way, they're actually trying to offend yours, especially yours, and so forth. Because the fact is that it's obvious that the media can easily create an enemy for themselves, and then the lynch is guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76975	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76976	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have pointed out a certain problem that journalists and journalists face by their employers, and in fact it is about contracts on works that are being concluded, which means that many journalists and journalists have been working for 10 and more years without going to retirement and health, which, of course, when they come into their 40s, is a major problem. We can see that the last few days in certain sheets are shared and cancelled, which I certainly don't think is good. Of course, it's every owner's right to decide his business policy. However, it seems to me that in this entire segment not only in the protection of journalists but also in those previous stages, it has set a policy when it was not taken into account in the fact that the media is being sold, or who becomes the media owner. And as I said in my debate on behalf of the HSS Club of Representatives in other countries, domestic media can only be in the hands of those owners from that country and therefore it is also a postulate in the countries of the most developed democracy. Unfortunately, some other phenomena have occurred in Croatia. Therefore, we should not be surprised at what fellow Sumrak said, and what you mentioned in your statement that we can only see in the media the statements of those who have a problem with the cross in public institutions, rather than those who think otherwise. In the media today, we can see mostly those who have a problem with Croatia, and there is no difference in the opinion of those who are the majority of Croatia and who are in favour of this Croatia. Media can hear the statements of those who complain about Yugoslavia today, pay and say their Croatia has failed. So, they're bothered by this country, and we may be bothered by the region, which bothers Yugoslavia, which is unheard of by the Party. Some people have a problem with Tudjman. He is an insurmountable complex to them, and those whom Tudjman was the Croatian president cannot be heard. But it all comes back to the beginning again, because, of course, capital owners are ideologies who decide, and not unfortunately, journalists who sometimes look for and work on general good and ethical journalism, but are exposed to various pressures.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76977	Mr. Markovanovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76978	Well it's right there that somewhere in '87, '88, '89. the years when journalists felt a little breath of freedom that they had called about the collapse of industry. So, by the frenzy of the clearing industry, because he stopped clearing both the economy and the factories were on their knees. So, general decomposition. But here's twenty and a little more years later memories faded. Now we're talking about some times of wonderful, wonderful times, and it was very charming to stand in tails, it was very charming to think about how anything, get to anything, that I don't even know ordinary refrigerators were bought for two years on payout and stuff like that. So, time, memory much changes. And as far as journalism is concerned, you'd think of the best free journalists. So we've got some of them. But they're also addicts, big addicts. You can be as free as you want to be if someone doesn't want to tell you. According to this, it is obvious that some journalists have a subjective mentality to such an extent that it is not difficult to determine who the owner is, even if a single leaf or any other medium has led to another name. So, this law is definitely going to bring understanding, understanding of users to say media services, and I think it's going to help us all when we start reading some list, and now we know why it says that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76979	Thank you. And I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, and we'll decide later. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z. 849. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously with 100 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76981	And now it's rational, and there's a minister of culture so we don't torture him twice. We have, we would move to this 19th item of the agenda, and then we will return to 17th and 18th, so – (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency (b) The proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Given that the current members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency have expired their mandate, the Government has proposed these acts on the basis of Article 12. Law on the Croatian Reporting Agency. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and by the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76982	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, So here are two decisions, one on the resolution of members of the Governing Council of HINA, and the other on the appointment. In accordance with Articles 11 and 12. The Law on HINA members of the Governing Council, so far members of the Administrative Council of HINA, has expired, and new members should be appointed. I will briefly refer to the amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which is proposed by the amendment that a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency who is appointed to the Administrative Council shall not be elected by HINA staff, so that it does not join his election, for the reasons why the Committee has explained why further consultations should be carried out, so the Government should carry out further consultations, and on how to elect a member of the Administrative Council of Staff. In view of the fact that several requests have arrived on the board on the one hand and on the other, so those who think that a member of the Board of Directors is elected in one way, and those who think the choice is necessary in another way. So here we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club support this amendment of the Committee, and we think that such a possible, possible misunderstanding needs to be resolved in the best possible way, so we support this amendment and support the decision to appoint the remaining members of the Governing Council of HINA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76983	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76984	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's a colleague of Lukacic's actually said what we're going to vote on, or what we're going to suggest. I'd just like to say who we were on the board yesterday for informing, informing and media raises our hands, who we supported. So it is Mr Vlaho Bogisic, Mr Alexander Adler, Mr Tomislav Radić and Mr Damir Boras. It was also said whether Mr Boras, since he is an external member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, agreed that he would consult and if he were in conflict of interest, would then give his priority to being a member of the Governing Council of HINA. And I'm just going to say that these people we're voting for today, and I believe that we're going to vote on them, of course we're going to be a team that has to implement a strategic plan for HINA's development from 2011 to 2013, and I hope that they will do just as well on what HINA needs, which is the introduction of new services, and I believe that HINA will ultimately be what public service is expected of it, so without left, right, middle, any kind of pressures, and that it will continue to carry out its agency activity professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76985	Thank you. Would the minister like to make a statement about the amendment? Yeah. Mr. Minister Jasen Mesic. Here you go. The amendment of the Information Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76986	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government accepts the proposed amendment by the Committee. We will consider further, given that we have received a number of additional letters in a very short time, additional explanations, additional requests, so that in this way we will be able to further express this decision on the appointment of the fifth member of the Board of Directors, i.e. members from the ranks of employees. Otherwise, I would like to thank all MPs, MPs and representatives for the discussion, and to contribute to the debate and yesterday on the committee and today in Parliament regarding the appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76987	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76988	We move to a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, b) Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee for Information, Information and Media has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a Decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency with the following amendment: the words "from the order of employees in Croatia to the news agency Aleksandar Spain" are deleted. During the debate, a representative of the Government accepted the amendment of the Committee. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The decision was made by a majority of votes, 99 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Second Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. A single amendment has been accepted here. About the appointment of yes, members of the Governing Council of Croatian Radio Television. What's the score? The proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 90 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against, together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal is the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation between the two countries and contributes to the continued consolidation and development of friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. The Agreement shall, in an appropriate manner, regulate the issues related to the surrender and acceptance of its own nationals as well as of third-country nationals and stateless persons who are illegally entering or staying in the territory of the other Contracting Party. The Republic of Croatia is increasingly effectively controlling illegal migration and this law that will confirm the agreement will be an even stronger tool in the hands of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior in the fight against illegal migration in the fight against which I said the Ministry of Interior is increasingly effective. The proposed law confirms the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entered into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of this law will not require insurance and additional financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76990	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76991	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal is proposed in an appropriate manner to settle issues relating to the surrender and acceptance of their own nationals as well as of third-country nationals and stateless persons who are illegally entering or staying in the territory of the other Contracting Party. The Protocol between the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Security of BiH on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is unlawfully serving the implementation of the Agreement and, in particular, regulates the way in which citizenship is determined, the surrender and acceptance procedure, the proof of residence or transfer through the state area of the contracted party, the presumption of residence or crossing over the national territory of the Contracting Parties, the illegal crossing of the state border, the surrender and acceptance procedure under the shortened procedure and the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties. The delegations of the Republic of Croatia and BiH met in Zagreb on 25 and 26 November 2010 to agree on that agreement and protocol. The basis for the negotiations was the Croatian drafts of the text of the agreement and the protocol with amendments and additions proposed by the Bosnian-Herzegovina side. The consideration of texts and the alignment of views passed in a friendly and working atmosphere during which the texts of agreements and protocols were fully agreed and initialled. The agreement and protocol were signed on 11 March 2011 by Croatian Interior Minister Mr Tomislav Karamarko and BiH Security Minister Sadik Ahmetovic. On 9 June 2011, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration shall be in accordance with Article 16(2). The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, together with the opinions of the relevant resolutions, in order to initiate the procedure for confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is an illegal agreement shall confirm that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Republic of Croatia entered into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76992	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Mr. Ivan Bagaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76993	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. This is one in a series of bilateral agreements between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, which I would first and foremost say would regulate relations between these two countries and also contribute to strengthening ties, strengthening friendship between Croatia and BiH. In fact, the Confirmation Agreement is a law confirming agreements between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, one framework within which they will be resolved so far in practice in cases that have burdened the legislation and society at all, both in Croatia and BiH, and this will be a step forward in regulating relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. This should be seen first and foremost in the context of the soon entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU and the determination of Croatia's relations as members of the EU and BiH. On this occasion, as I have often said in this Chamber, I point out the importance of BiH when it comes to Croatia and also when it comes to the general Croatian people but also to all who live in BiH, the importance of Croatia as a country to which it will be tied the next day and which will be a bond to the EU. Therefore, despite the fact that this is not a direct issue of this law, I am again taking the opportunity to point out the importance of all democratic processes in BiH and to achieve democratic standards that will ensure the prosperity of BiH, BiH, the state of equal nations, so all three equal peoples and all citizens of BiH, which is a prerequisite for BiH's stability. We all know that the issue in BiH has not been resolved now and that the Croatian people, regardless of what is guaranteed by the Constitution and everything the Constitution provides on paper, are unfortunately not implemented in life. Therefore, it is very important for Croatia to develop BiH in this direction in the future and also for the entire EU throughout the European community of countries and peoples it is important that BiH achieves these standards in order to be included in the common European space the next day, we believe a higher level of democracy and better standards simply better standards of living. Here in this context, I support this agreement once again. I also use the opportunity to announce in a certain way to the Croatian public but also to the public in BiH that our parliamentary procedure also entered the proposal of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the efforts of this government or the state of Croatia to regulate a systematic relationship with three large groups of Croats outside Croatia, so to Croats in BiH as sovereign people, then to the Croatian National Minority in 12 European countries and diaspora or emigration. all of our people who have been moving out of Croatia for years and inhabited the overseas countries and their descendants. In this context, the bill also regulates this relationship, the relationship between Croatia and the Croatian people in this case in BiH, and the regulation of this relationship is actually an improvement in Croatia and BiH's relationship and the actual opening of BiH's perspective as tomorrow's future EU member. I stress that the importance of creating one context of one belief and one policy is, in fact, the closer BiH enters the EU and the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, of course, the interest of the people there and of all residents in the BiH. Because if BiH is expected to meet all those standards that the Republic of Croatia has achieved here and in such a way as to pass all the sieves and solutions that Croatia has been going through, I fear it will not happen in the next few years. And if that doesn't happen then it's a threat to BiH's stability. We therefore call on all the factors in both Croatia and BiH and the international public to engage in a way to support BiH in terms of its integration into the EU together, i.e. as soon as possible with the Republic of Croatia. Here's my support for this bill again, and of course I'll give my vote to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76994	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the agenda point, so we'll decide later. The final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 850, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76997	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On the basis of Article 7. The Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II was established Office for the Finding and Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crimes Victims after World War II. The provision of the 15th Law found that the office was governed by a council of presidents and 8 members. In accordance with the provisions of Article 15 of the same law of the President and of the 7 members of the Board of Directors, the Office shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament for a period of 8 years. Both president and one member on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, one member from the Croatian Parliament of the War Veterans Committee, and one member at the proposal of the Croatian Institute for History, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Croatian Bishop's Conference, the Croatian State Archives and the Croatian Red Cross. Following that meeting of 16 June this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for the appointment of the President and member of the Management Council of the Office for which the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted proposals for the appointment of the remaining six members of the Administrative Council. And before you there is a proposal for a decision on the appointment of Prof. Dr. Andrija Hebrang appointed President of the Governing Council of the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and for members of the Administrative Council of the Office, Master Stjepan Adanic is proposed on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mato Biljic from the order of members of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Dr.sc. Zdravko Dizdar at the proposal of the Croatian Institute of History, academician Branko Kincl at the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Abdr. Dr Mile Bogovic, Bishop of Gospićko-Senj at the proposal of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, Snježana Ivanovic on the proposal of the Croatian State Archives and Dubravka Horvat on the proposal of the Croatian Red Cross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76998	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to see it? Mr. Josip Djakic on behalf of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u76999	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crime Victims after World War II The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 30th session held on 6 July 2011 discussed the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crime Victims After the Second World War, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by a Act of 16 June 2011. The proposal for a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia directs the Croatian Parliament to appoint a list of candidates for the President and members of the Management Board of the Office for the finding, marking and maintenance of graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, as well as those proposed by it and other authorised applicants. In a brief discussion, the committee members had no objections to the proposed candidates and supported the proposed candidates. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision to appoint the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crime Victims after World War II, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u77000	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u77001	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Board of Directors of the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. Although it's been 65 years, I think we're obliged to do that part, and there's certainly a great task in front of this committee. On the basis of Article 7. The Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II was established by the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crimes Victims. In Article 15, I quote in the law: it is determined that the Office is managed by the Administrative Council by the President and by eight members. In accordance with the provisions of Article 15(2) and (3) of the Law, the President and seven members of the Governing Council of the Office shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament for a period of eight years. In line with the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is attached to the full Proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Governing Council and this: it is proposed to the President of the Administrative Council of the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of the Victims of Communist Crimes after World War II Professor Andrija Hebrang. For members: Stjepan Adanić at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mato Bilnjić from the order of members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Zdravko Dizdar at the proposal of the Croatian Institute for History, Branko Kincl at the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Mile Bogović Bishop of Gospićko-senjski, Snježana Ivanovic at the proposal of the Croatian State Archive and Dubravka Horvat on the proposal of the Croatian Red Cross. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports and is confident that this team of people will do everything possible to kill those people who are not in the war but after the war without weapons, led to Macedonia, from Slovenia to Macedonia, that they will find all those tombs that are now over 900 and will be marked and maintained in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u77002	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. There's no interest. We'll decide something later. We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of graves of victims of the communist crime after World War II, the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the Board of Directors. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 89 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u77005	President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 67th session of the Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the appointment of the Security and Intelligence Committee. The members of the board shall be informed of the applications received by the President and of the six members of the Council. The Committee received a total of 12 applications from candidates and established that all meet the formal conditions for the president and six members of the Council. The Security Intelligence Agency Act lays down that basic security checks are to be carried out for members of the Council, and since they have access to classified data in the performance of the tasks, it is necessary to issue a certificate for access to classified classified classified classified Classified Classified Classified Information "very secret". It is therefore decided that the selection of candidates will take place after the completion of the security verification procedure. The term of office of members of the Council shall end on 13 July 2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Security Verification Act for members of the Council shall be subject to a basic security check which may take from 30 to 120 days under Article 37 of the same Act. In addition, members of the Council shall be appointed by the Assembly, based on Article 197. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be held regularly until 15 July. From those deadlines, i.e. Security checks, these summer breaks in the meeting of the Committee members agreed that the current members of the Council were appointed as officials until the election of new members of the Council, but not later than 13 October 2011. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusions. First, 12 candidates for the president and 6 members of the Civil Control Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. 12 candidates meet the formal requirements of a public call issued on 18 May 2011. Second, basic security checks will be requested to issue a certificate for access to classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified Classified. It is addressed to the Croatian Assembly to propose a decision on the appointment of acting presidents and members of the Civil Intelligence Agency's Security and Intelligence Board, which reads: For the officials of the Civil Intelligence Council, it is appointed to act as acting president Mile Ćulumovic, a graduate electrical engineering engineer. As acting member Dr. Krunoslav Antoliš, professor at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, Zoran Grgić graduated engineering engineer, master Drazen Arasin, professor Dr. Nikola Mijatović graduated lawyer, Sanja Sarnavka, professor of comparative literature and Nenada Vukman, graduate politologist from Zagreb. Other members of the Civil Intelligence Council will also carry out the job as acting president and members of the Civil Intelligence Council after the end of the term of office of 13 July 2011 until the election of new members of the Council, but not later than 13 October 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-08-0.u77006	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I have announced, we would now have a vote at 1200 hours. I ask clubs, or presidents and vice presidents of clubs to ensure the necessary quorum to vote at 12:00. So, another half hour. Then I'll repeat, we'd also have an addition to the agenda and decisions on these points crossed. However, we also plan not to have a session on Monday, but rather time would be foreseen for committees. On Tuesday, it would start at 9:00, and also on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday without a break and as long as we estimate that we could end up on the agenda or at least with what I should say to some more important points that we would have to bring before the break all to avoid an extraordinary session. So I ask the clubs to organize themselves in that sense and actually ensure this debate from Tuesday at 9:00 p.m. to Friday. Now there would be a small break, five to 12 p.m. when we'll meet here again to vote on the completion of the agenda and the vote on the closure points of the agenda. We also have a change of constitution, which is why it's important that we all come to thank you very much. We are going to the Proposal for a Decision appointing the acting president and members of the Civil Intelligence Agency's Security and Intelligence Board, the Proposer of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the acting president and members of the Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and one against.
