ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77288	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The law on the collection of data on insurance undertakings on contributions to compulsory pension insurance regulations that regulates, pooled collection, processing and delivery of data by insurance undertakings on compulsory pension insurance contributions on the basis of generational solidarity and compulsory capitalised pension insurance, as well as data on their payments. Among other things, the law provides for the REGOS so as to register insurance, maintains a register of collected data and, according to the records, manages the single accounting of personal accounts of members of pension funds. The capitalised pension system has been established in a way that, at the initial stage of implementation of the reform, key entities in the system are primarily pension companies with the fund being exempt from participation in the cost of carrying out single accounts accounting activities if REGOS is carrying out so far, these costs have been subsidised from the state budget. So all of what REGOS was doing for pension funds was financed entirely by the Republic of Croatia. However, given the current level of development of the pension system and the fact that the pension... the Fund has raised a business with positive financial results, it is estimated that they are able to pay compensation for the service of conducting the single accounting of personal accounts carried out for them by REGOS. In this regard, this law proposes that this conduct of personal accounts and the conduct of the single accounting of personal accounts made by REGOS be financed by pension funds, so that they simply participate. they pay for the service that REGOS performs for them, and at an altitude of 2.5 kuna per one insurance undertaking per month. So that would be about 45 million kunas at the annual level. Every pension fund would pay for that number of insurance companies that have therefore the funds pay differently. I note that this has also been discussed with representatives of pension funds who have agreed with this kind of funding, and the payment will be made on the basis of monthly accounts to be delivered by REGOS to each fund. In addition to this most important amendment, the bill also facilitates the business of data submission in the RSM form by electronic means, and increases the amount of fines in the event of non-resistance of that form, thus harmonising these provisions with the provisions of the Criminal Law. And the deadlines are also increasing for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, thus achieving greater discipline in the system. Finally, just to point out, the law is proposed to be adopted in an emergency procedure because it is particularly about legitimate state interests, given that the budget provides for funds, so funds will be paid into the budget. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77289	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77290	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So at its 59th session held on 12 July, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Data Collection Act by insurance companies on mandatory pension insurance contributions. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law would allow the collection of transactions for the management of the single accounting of personal accounts of members of the mandatory pension funds carried out by REGOS for compulsory pension companies, which so far have been charged exclusively by the state budget. It pointed out that the system administration cost during the period from 1 January 2002 until now had not been paid by compulsory pension companies which, on the basis of the compensation, had achieved significant amounts, while the state had fully taken over the burden of subsidising the costs of carrying out that single accounting of personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds. Therefore, such a way of dealing with the costs of the state budget is long-term unsustainable. In the debate, the applicant answered the questions relating to the payment of fees for the account of members of compulsory pension funds and after the discussion was conducted, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes to pass the law on amendments and additions to the Law on data collection by insurance companies on contributions to compulsory pension insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77291	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, so he can return. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77292	Let me do it again. Dear President, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The data collection law for insurance undertakings on compulsory pension insurance contributions is a regulation that regulates, pooled collection, processing and delivery of data by insurance undertakings on compulsory pension insurance contributions on the basis of generational solidarity and compulsory capitalised pension insurance and data on their payments. Among other things, the law regulates the REGOS to keep the register on collected data and, according to the records, the single accounting of personal accounts of members of the pension fund is conducted. The capitalised pension system has been established in a way that at the initial phase of implementation reforms are key entities in the pension society system. The peacekeeping companies are free from participation in the management of the single accounting of personal accounts carried out by REGOS so that these costs have been settled from the state budget so far. The cost of administration of the system since 1 January 2002, as I have already said, has not been paid by compulsory pension companies that have been made on this basis for compensation and income. The current level of development of the pension system and the fact that pension societies have established a business with positive financial results enables them to pay compensation for the management of the single accounting of personal accounts carried out for them by REGOS. This way contributes to achieving the financial and social sustainability of the capitalised pension scheme, which is defined as the objective by the Government Programmes for 2011 to 2013, and is in line with measures under the Economic Recovery Programme in which one of the measures is to reduce costs in the second pension column. In addition to these most important changes, the proposal for a law makes it easier for data submission bonds to operate by submitting data on the RSM form by electronic means. The amount of fines is then increased in the event of an intolerance of the RSM form, thus harmonising the provisions of this law with the provisions of the Criminal Code and increasing the limitation period for the initiation of the Criminal Procedure, which is expected to achieve greater discipline in the system itself. So far, the deadlines of limitations under the provisions of the Criminal Code have proved to be too short. It is therefore proposed to increase the limitation period for the initiation of the infringement procedure to three years, i.e. an absolute period of six years, which will be achieved except for greater discipline in the system and faster and simpler exercise of pension insurance rights. The failure to submit data on the RSM form makes it impossible to obtain data on the basis and training of pension insurance which is a prerequisite for the exercise of pension insurance rights. It is also proposed to pay the payer when he submits data on the RSM form for more than 100 insurance companies to submit them by electronic means. Sending data by electronic means will significantly reduce the possibility of errors in the transmission of data on the form and entry and registration into the register. This increases the safety, efficiency and facilitates the business of all entities, and balances the way in which tax and contribution data are submitted by law. The application shall be determined starting on 1 January 2012 in accordance with the rules governing the collection of income tax for employers paying salaries for more than 100 workers. The rules adopted by the Administrative Board of REGOS shall lay down the way in which the form for the special category of obligors is to be submitted, as well as the submission of the RSM form to data applicants in relation to the number of insurance undertakings up to 24 and 100 insurance undertakings, respectively. Data from the register will be able to be used for statistical research, but for the use of data for statistical processing purposes it will have to pay compensation not paid by law by the State Statistics Office. The amount of fees for the use of data for statistical processing purposes will be determined by the REGOS Management Council. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Since this law provides for a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget on amounts to be paid by private entities, these are compulsory pension societies, which are implemented by the Economic Recovery Programme, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77293	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77294	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on data collection by insurance companies on contributions to compulsory pension insurance. And what to say, I don't think this is a measure of economic recovery but it's certainly a consolidation of state finances, so it can be indirect, but precisely say this is a consolidation of state finances or a reduction of costs where it doesn't have to be objectively. We could have done this much earlier because, namely, the last report for 2010 of the company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds increased profits by 23.69% compared to the first six months of 2009 and their profits increased to 110 million kuna. Therefore, there has been room to talk before because the profit of compulsory pension companies has grown significantly from the property management fee, of course the property has increased and the compensation has not been properly changed. It is certain that not only now, but it was likely that a year and more ago, assumptions were made that the cost of the Central Insurance Register was not only being transferred to the state but also partly to the profits of compulsory pension companies. It is safe to welcome in this law issues in some way keeping mandatory records, increasing the limitation in terms of non-payment of contributions to the second pillar of individual capitalised savings, as well as increasing the impedimentary penalties in the event of non-compliance. It is also good in this Act that, independently of the state, the business of the central insurance register, which was established in 1999 and which also plays a significant role in the control of the payment of contributions, is established independently of the State. Therefore, on the collection of contributions from a member of compulsory pension funds who plays a significant role in keeping records of the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds. Therefore, it plays an unambiguous and irreplaceable role in the functioning of the first pillar records, but primarily from the second pillar, i.e. capitalised individual savings. But what really bothers us and it's not good that we don't suddenly get a whole package of laws but that it's about changing one law at a time and let's say everywhere that we have some effects, and we can't look at the whole picture. Of course, if you ask our citizens the difference between compulsory pension societies and pension funds rarely who will tell you and see a big difference. Even if you ask them the difference between these two I said and the pension insurance company that serves only to pay off the savings in the second pillar, who will rarely be able to tell you anything specific besides experts in this field and well-informed journalists about it. If you look at the argument in this law in accordance with Article 5, it is also prescribed that the bill will be made on a daily basis, but the cost will be settled monthly on the basis of the established account by REGOS. It is also determined that the amount of compensation to be paid by compulsory pension companies will be assessed in an appropriate manner when establishing the criteria for determining the annual fee from the total assets to the Mandatory Pension Fund, which the criteria will be prescribed by the future amendment of the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, and this is not the law. So, there's a story open. Probably the secretary of state can say that the fee will be reduced, but no one can tell us at this point that it will shrink. The question of how pension societies will be asked because then a negotiating process will probably be opened with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So that's why I find this process flawed to be harmonised and to change the law by law. What is looking forward to here is opening up opportunities, so opening up the possibility of running a single accounting system, or reporting data. So it's not just one written path. It's an electronic route. It's on the magnetic carrier. Therefore, depending on the size of the company, there is also a way of collecting, or handing over data. What I also point out is that in Article 1(5), this is how it will be said. Obligations to submit data submitted by electronic means shall use qualified business certificates. What am I trying to say? I recently asked Minister Dalic why 1200 people, second-degree pensioners, pay an average of 12 kuna per month tax at 12% when their total pension is no more than 3200 kuna. Here you see, in this section, we're looking for qualified business certificates. In the part of the business, the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office compared to Raiffeisen pension insurance company that pays pensions from the second pillar cannot be done the same thing that there are licensed persons who can, therefore, have permission to check the total pension incomes that do not collect these 12 kunas monthly, which means around 150 kuna per year, and those persons have to return them to the 150 kuna, have to fill out the annual application which again costs 150 kuna. So we're making all the drama, a huge huge deal for approximately 100,000 kuna. That really doesn't make sense. That's why I connected those two things, because if there is one solution here that works why it could not be between the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. We've got the principal here. Mr. Director, I hope you'll appreciate this thinking so we don't just harass people. I mean, the task is for the state to be very correct to its citizens, and not for the sake of small money to get the money back at all, they have to pay extra money. Next, what's worth saying here isn't going to solve what's the problem of the second pillar. The problem of the second pillar today is that at the level of the average salary should be allocated 88 years in order to pay the pension insurance company 300,000 kuna, and based on 300,000 kunas in return for life you can get 1000 kuna pensions. Of course, that period may be twice as short, but within that double-term retirement insurance companies, the money managed by pension funds must be doubled by the paid-up capital. They have to make 300 out of 150, and it's really a very demanding job. Because it wasn't at the beginning that 150 thousand kuna was paid, but it's being subsectically paid from month to month. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at this point we have about 75% of our employees who receive salaries at an average and below average salary, which means that things stand after the end of the savings period with this separation rate in the second pillar of pension insurance are expected to most of these 75% of today's workers who have an average, below the average salary will have a pension of less than 1000 kuna. They're rough bills. I agree we could laminate a lot about it, but they're very close to the truth. Unfortunately, what in 2002 when people opted for pensions, for the second pillar of pension insurance that was considered normal, which is 2% of the real salary growth per year, unfortunately has been rare since 2002, which have really been a growth of 2% of real salary growth at year-on-year. So, what do you say? The problem is much, much wider than this law can give us an idea of the problem of the second pillar itself. This will not solve the problem of high management costs, nor the problem of inappropriate actuarial tables of the Mirovinski insurance company of one and only, so one and only in Croatia without competition. Therefore, the actuarial tables of the Mirovina Insurance Society are as if all Croatian citizens will live for 100 years or so and will be paid for so long. The question is whether pension companies can also pay pensions or just have to be compulsory pension societies, or if we just have to have double capacities that we have to have pension insurance companies to pay off. This is a matter of costing the entire system and, of course, the key question is whether a 5% rate is enough or if someone else needs to be involved in this mandatory insurance? Whether the second pillar should remain mandatory or voluntary in the future, whether the state could provide certain incentives and also be involved by employers because they are their workers, workers who make them profit. Therefore, also at this point, employers of pension contributions pay nothing because pension contributions are paid out of gross wages. Therefore, there is a space for employers to help the second pillar so that their current employees can have more favourable pension rights from the second pillar, of course if the state wants to develop a second pillar. I hear rumors that some other methods are also being considered, such as Slovakia, etc. about the reduction, about the suspension of the second pension stake, which I don't think is good because we still haven't given him a chance to develop. What must surely be done in the second pillar is that for 120,000 people who have voluntarily entered the system, they are allowed to leave but after the end of the insurance period to have the right to choose a more favourable pension right. It's safe and it needs to be done. And secondly, we should give that second pillar a chance to develop it, not all of which we begin in some way to destroy it. What I want to say about this law one more time, it's just a fraction in the whole system. I think these are quality changes. The HNS-HSU club will support these changes because part of the burden is being transferred to the profits of pension insurance companies, not paid by the state. The state needs enough to direct that money for other purposes. It is about a figure of around 45 million kuna, which will reduce the profits of pension insurance companies and reduce the burden of state financing for the Central Insurance Register. So once again, the HNS-HSU club will support this proposal by treating it as very useful and high-quality, however, it is not enough, it is just one small pebble, one small glass in the mosaic of the problem of the entire functioning of the second pillar of pension insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77295	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77296	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, as my predecessors have said, the emphasis is clear on this unique accounting, an attempt by the state to get hold of those 45 million kunas. Apparently, the agreement between the state and the pension funds fell, they agreed to reduce their profit of about 110 million kuna last year by that proposed amount, so if so, if they do so, why should we here in the assembly be against their agreement with the state and why they should be against the law. We won't be, I think that makes sense. It is clear what Mr. Hrelja was talking about that all those who have chosen this second pillar should, if they wish, move to the first pillar, and not just those who now retire. Normally, I speak as soon as they get conditions for retirement. In 2002, if I'm not mistaken, about 122 thousand people have entered that second pillar. Today we have a situation that those who are 39 years old, means not 40, 38, 39, can actually choose where they will stay, whether they will return to the first pillar or stay in the second column. Understandably, our pension system is one word ahead of collapse, that's also logical. Only in the period from 1.07.2009 to today did Croatia lose 145 thousand jobs, some 50,000 went to work on black, 50 thousand went to the Employment Office, which is a direct cost of the state and 50,000 people retired, which also fell to the burden of the pension system, or budget. This relationship of 1.22 workers versus 1 pensioners at the very least is unbearable. So pensions are tied to jobs, which makes jobs less understandable that there will be lower and pensions, the more imperceptible opportunities will be our pensions. As far as the law is concerned, however, it is not now the subject of the law, but to return to the very subject of Article 7 where we now see that these limitation deadlines have been extended to three years since the infraction took place. I think that should be absolutely supported, but in this whole legislative proposal for me is the fundamental problem of this article 6 where it is said or better said where sanctions or penalties from 500 kuna to 5 thousand kuna are replaced by figures from 2 thousand to 20 thousand kuna or from 1000 to 10 thousand kuna also amounting to 2 to 20 thousand kuna. My lords, at least I don't think there's anyone in that small economy or anywhere else who wouldn't do his duty if he owned or had money. Our practice became, yesterday was the first reading of the Penal Code, but every law when we change, we just lift the fines. I don't think that's fair. We seem to live here under some glass bell which may not be far from the truth, but if each representative had or one of his family members cared for 10 workers then he would understand what 500 kuna, 1000 kuna to that small company, 10 thousand kuna or no fine of 20 thousand kuna. Not in 2011, I keep pointing out for this speaker more privileged jobs than public administration, in municipal enterprises, in courts, in the INA State Attorney's Office, HRT all of this about the state. The only people who can get close in some way are Croatian monopolies. In order for someone to earn money today in some small 5,000 kuna system, they must earn 50 grand, in order to have 5 grand left, they must earn 50 thousand kuna. In order for someone to earn 10 grand or to have 10 thousand kuna left, they need to turn over 100,000 kunas. And yet out of these 100,000 kunas one third goes for the material, one third goes to the state, for taxes or contributions, and 1/3 goes to the workers, and there you add gas, gas, rent, etc. And that's why I really ask you that when we talk about these penalties that are set out here in Article 6 of this Law that at least you have measures. Our sentences are at least absurd. Let's keep in mind in some way for those who work and allocate funds for us who steal us. So be careful with the penalties when it comes to that Transport Code, when it comes to the Penal Code, when it comes to a whole set of these economic laws, etc. Citizens have come simply to the edge, and these little craftsmen even dare to say that today they are both in a worse situation and from the workers who work with them. If for nothing then because they correspond to all of their assets, all of what they have acquired through life, which was inherited by the worker corresponding to their work. I agree that there is no higher priority than paying a worker's salary, absolutely number one, then paying off contributions to cooperatives, renting utility services, if you don't pay them, they'll cut off your electricity, water as it says, cut VAT taxes, customs taxes, etc. A year ago we even talked about some if I'm not mistaken for 260 parafiscal duties, I'm deeply convinced that at this point we have 10, 20 more and there's no difference between local self-government and a clear state. It simply shifts the burden to someone else and the question of who can simply endure it. When it comes to these fines, I return to Article 6 of this fine which, with 500 kuna to 5 thousand kuna, rises to 20 thousand kuna, i.e. this one from 1000 to 10 thousand kuna to 2 to 20,000 kuna, we simply need to start talking to the economic or economic, I don't know how to say, existential positions and those who provide funds for the state budget. We're not allowed after getting out of the 1st. To this day, the 7th to 2009 shut down 145 thousand jobs and a new job for absurd penalties, we simply must not detimise people to work in this country, we must think that these people who work must earn and not that their only obligation is to make sure that something for the state and the local community has to give. Yesterday we had a committee where it was clearly said and from the structure of the state government, I don't know what the State Secretary's name is, that about 60% of all employees in the Republic of Croatia work in small companies. If someone's at risk at this point, it's just these small companies. These large, privatised companies for them will always "find out what a beautiful word" in both the government and the Parliament will have an understanding for them and we do not want to "down" to these young ones. And that is how much we guide, so let us have little consideration for these punishments, and for those who will pay the punishment as a rule. I said that 50,000 people after we lost in two years, 145 thousand jobs went to that gray economy, working on black. Those who work on black are not controlled by anyone in this country, they can do whatever they want, and those who do are single out, trying hard, trying neatly to settle all their obligations can count on every other day on their own door to have some inspection. We punish those who work, and how they pay the obligations they pay us, and these others, as if they can't be simply touched. And so it should be sensitive and take care of these penalties because Croatia is neither Denmark nor Germany nor Belgium, today I read that it has failed to form a government for two and a few years and that their entire economy is booming, it might be a good example for us, but what I mean is, everywhere out there are far lower interest, far lower VAT, far more efficient administration, out there it is not that everything is simply controlled by monopolies like in Croatia, there has been no conversion, they have had some initial accumulation 300 or I don't know how many years ago. The labour prices are if we really want to be honest here bigger than outside, and that's why the law should be supported but I would really ask that these penalties, if nothing else remains in the gauges of the existing law, mean not this proposed but that which is now in force. And I'm also asking that at least in the future take care of those penalties because ultimately believe me, 20 or I don't know how many 30 thousand kunas or 50 thousand kunas some kind of punishment can close some craft, some craftsman who has two or three workers, and certainly no reasonable policy should be of interest. The law will be supported, it is logical, it is agreed between pension funds and the Government of the Republic of Croatia but please simply take care of these penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77297	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77298	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, let me say that the SDP will support the amendments to this law, because we believe that the changes to all three institutes that are proposed are a kind of improvement. However, I would agree with one of my predecessors who asked a question, and this may be a good opportunity for that, a motive for changing the law concerning the second pillar of retirement. In fact, the motive is quite certain and from the reasons it was at least then but perhaps not a tantamount question about 40 million kuna consolidation of the state budget, and it was not the result of serious thinking of what should be done and what had to be done over the past years in order to put the other pension system as a whole on the feet that were envisaged at the time when the reform itself was conceived so in the second half of the 1990s, I would say very professional, serious discussions, analysis and insight into what can and must be done within the pension system. And these discussions were held not only with us but throughout the world. This has not been approached even though perhaps the 10th anniversary of the implementation of the pension system that we know today since 10 years ago may be a great opportunity and a great reason to go into a more serious thinking so that every little occurrence of a flat-rate assessment of how successful or not has been, stopped and compensated for a serious debate on such an important issue as the pension system and its functioning. In fact, let me visit that perhaps apart from creating an independent state of Croatia as the largest project on which a national consensus has been created and on the issue of Croatia's European future in terms of its integration into the EU, no general national consensus has been established in Croatia on any concrete and serious issue, as was the case with the pension reform. That reform, as I said, was conjectured in the 1990s. It was launched by HDZ governments, who well prepared the concept themselves and even passed a whole series of laws that needed to help establish the system. In 2000, it was necessary to break and decide whether to continue to build or give up the system. The recommendations that were worth it are still valid today. They're not even devoid of ideological colors. And today, with the left spectrum that I belong to, often, one can feel a kind of skepticism towards a system where part of what was always considered a commitment of the state is privatized. That vision of privatisation was then present, it is present today, I say especially on the left hand side. But in thinking and making decisions to go into this system, we handled two key facts. The first is the fact that surely a better system of generation solidarity, a better system of generation solidarity, which I secondly confirm simply could not be maintained anymore. The golden age of the social state from the beginning of the second half of the 20th century could no longer survive anywhere or within us. We can seriously regret it. These were the great times when the social state especially in European countries showed all its luxury, so if you want that valuable social substrate that it carried and carried. But the social state, under the rise of this neoliberal capitalism, has brought this neoliberal capitalism into question the possibility of its survival without serious reforms. And this is what controversy is about today. When we, as citizens of Croatia in the 1990s, decided to leave a multinational state of one system and opt for capitalism, we had before us Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden or Norway as a successful, economically efficient capitalist state with a very high level of protection of social rights and a high level of social security for citizens of those countries. No one had a system in front of their eyes in which they would rob uncontrollably and uncontrollably in which social well-being would be destroyed and in which most citizens would actually poverty what happened to us in the 1990s. But what happened happened. In 2000, we did a final serious analysis of whether or not it could survive a system of generational solidarity. '52. the year the employment and pensioner ratio was 9:1 in Croatia, 9:1. In the '90s, he was still 3:1. As you know, this ratio is now 1:1 and it is not only a problem of the catastrophicly low employment of Croatian citizens but it is also a problem for the vast number of pensioners that has arisen as a consequence of one side of demographic reasons that concerns others, because the population is growing older and older. We belong to the oldest population group, we have one of the lowest natural growths in the population, we have serious demographic problems that no one is seriously talking about in Croatia, which is one of the issues that also requires a consensual approach, not ideologically or party bickering, but a serious approach that will have its long-term consequences. So, this demographic problem and the problem of course economically because Croatia has not developed in the 20 years that it could have been or how some other transition countries that have not only caught up with Croatia have been well overrun, given the starting position we have had, regardless of what we have certainly had a war that has been a great cost both in financial and in human and other respects. When it comes to the second pillar, it was designed to develop and not end the pension reform that took place in 2004 when instead of going with an increase in the amount of separation in the second pillar so that by 2007 it would be 50% of the pension contributions in the first, 50% in the second pillar, which would guarantee future safer pensions from both pillars. It didn't happen, the reform was stopped, and here you see, now the ministry appears when it's scribbled into the budget with certain ideas what to do and how to do. I remind you that, here two months ago, HANFA or a month and a half of HANFA appeared with a very serious, high-quality, good analysis with very strange conclusions that came out of that analysis and unacceptable in my court, but a good, quality basis for thinking, and yesterday we had a chance to see a text in which, in response to that analysis, the funds came out with their analysis showing that actually Croatia has a second cheapness pension system in Europe, which in some way confronts what HANFA has shown and what they are now showing. In the past 10 years, the funds have earned 7 billion kuna, and their profit is according to how they analyzed somewhere around 292 I mean kunas so that they claim that only 4% is actually that contribution, that 4% is their profit. If it is agreed that they accept and take the costs of REGOS it is so good and good to go consensually. I would now a little bit of what is said to turn the saw upside down and defend the funds, i.e. first of all I would ask not to speak out loudly and to seriously approach the analysis and cost of the pension system in one objective way, why not make the driver of such a debate be, say, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts or some other objective, independent institution to remove this ideological or political basis and to really get the right picture of what we have and define what needs to be done in the next 10 or 15 years. I mean, the funds are here, they're doing their job, and now I'm gonna say something. When we designed the system, then we thought about how greedy, profitable greed could be used so that it contributes to the citizens. How to motivate these funds to work well, it invests well to make the most of their contributions to the benefit of the country's citizens. Let them make money, too, but to ensure quality future pensions for our pensioners. If you can't get them... Let's at least make sure that's how it's done. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, some other things have happened within the system and other pillars that are not regulated, and which are further said, I would make the entire pension system and that second pillar comprehensible. The fact is that some women, about 1,000 women, retired prematurely from the time when they volunteered to go to that column, who had not had a long-term capitalisation or had not had high enough separations, so that their pensions were indeed from the second pillar, catastrophically low. This must by no means be the basis to conclude whether the pillar is good, it is not, whether it is a failed system etc., and therefore for some strange reason that the woman remained excluded from the pension allowance that all new pensioners received, and they are new or also new pensioners and where there was no reason to exclude them because they paid their entire contribution to the first pension pillar of generation solidarity, their whole life, and in the last 10 years they have paid 2/3 of their contributions to the first pillar. Why not take part with at least two-thirds of that supplement, which would be just, as would be just as my colleague Hrelja mentioned, that it is immediately going with the amendment of the law, that people who have chosen voluntarily, because the system is broken or not being developed, are not those women who blame those people who will... Most women, therefore I mention them, and not men have not yet come to order, that they may be freed from the first pillar, and out of that second pillar they transfer the money to the first pillar, and they choose what is more favorable for them. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, our proposal is an add-on to pensions certainly, if not in full and then at least in the amount of 2/3 contributions or depending on the years they have paid for, the possibility of choosing a more favourable pension at the time of retirement. It is an elemental order and an elemental obligation that the state should have for its citizens. I conclude, these are welcome and acceptable changes, but don't be afraid to suggest, and if there is nothing serious debate on how to jointly advance this important and important system concerning the future of all of us, all of the people who are working today and who will work in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77299	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77300	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, but I think it's a lapus, but it's just that people don't get it wrong because Mr. Vidovic said that pension funds had 296 kuna profits. I think it's 296 million cumulative, but not funds, but pension insurance companies because the funds don't have profits. The funds increase the value of individual roles of Croatian citizens. It's just a matter of order. I called in for a correction. There was nothing malicious about it. I believe it was a lapus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77301	Thank you. Before continuing and moving on to an individual debate, I do not know if we will be more during the day, so I will remind you that tomorrow at 12.35 pm the Croatian Parliament will address the Italian Republic of Giorgio Napolitano, so we will interrupt 15, 20 minutes earlier. That means about 12.15, take out the benches and so on so we can, and then of course after the exposure, we'll continue with the session. Well, maybe we should clean up some benches today so some hills of these materials aren't really visible. Here's of course I'll still mention what I'm talking about, but here's the thing. Mr. Dinko Buric asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77302	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, given the fact that some time ago the news has been announced that a Croatian general died and one of the symbols of the Croatian city's defence, Sisak General Djuro Brodarac, on behalf of the club, I would like to pray for a break of 10 minutes to discuss the circumstances in which his death occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77303	We know, unfortunately we've received news that our former colleague's representative and mayor of Sisak-Moslavina Mr. Djuro, former Mayor of Brodarac, died. More news came from private sources. Of course, we don't doubt it. She'd be better off if she was wrong, but obviously she wasn't. So we will, in accordance with the already a little usual marking of the book of mourning in the Croatian Parliament, and then we will be in the course of the day and there is no reason to take a break. We'll actually arrange it all in a decent and acceptable way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77304	I agree with you, Mr. President, that's what we should do, and given I agree with you on what you said the Croatian Parliament will do, and I believe that it will do in a dignified way what needs to be done. [[Intruder Baby: A little louder!]] But on behalf of the club, I asked the Rules of Procedure to take a break, and I ask you to allow that pause at the request of the HDSSB Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77305	He's on his way to the Rules of Procedure, so you know what. It's not appropriate for us to explain ourselves about the Rules of Procedure here right now. You know? It's not a chance, and it's kind of degutant that we're discussing it right now. However, a break can be sought in connection with the work of the Parliament. But I said that we would do so in a decent way, so that we would not make a precedent, the break is not related to the direct work of the Croatian Parliament and it is written in the Rules of Procedure. Well, let's not pollemize now. It'll turn out to be a special situation. Don't! I've explained it to you and I've told you what we're going to do and we're going to do it in the course of the day, so I'm asking that there's no discussion here. Because if I take a break, then you have the right to speak for five minutes. I don't think it's quite right now that we're opening any discussion about it. It's not, I'm saying it's not right. It's not easy. Here I'm asking you to give up on those so that we don't go further around here and pollemize and create some kind of atmosphere that isn't needed. Here, please, I understand everything and don't think that I don't have a sense of sensitivity and all that, but that's how we're gonna do it. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77306	Your Honor, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77307	But I don't hear you at all, Mr. Representative. I guess what you're saying. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77308	I don't know what this is about. I'm not usually quiet. I can try because the others can't hear me either. I don't know what this is about. You can't hear it. Yeah, okay. So, Your Honor, Mr. President, it's not the first time you've been looking for a break on behalf of the club and not connected to this. We had a situation where breaks were sought on behalf of the club and for insults carried out at certain gatherings, so such breaks were given. It's not what anyone's got, is it someone afraid of what I'm gonna say in those five minutes on behalf of the club? So don't make an exception. In accordance with Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club to discuss the circumstances in which Croatian General Djuro Brodarac died and I see no reason to challenge this right on behalf of the club. No reason, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77309	I see the reasons, and then I'm going to have to quote even though this thing is a little bit degutant that we're even opening up to this point. I'm asking you not to abuse...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77310	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club. Give me a reason why you won't allow a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77311	No, no. I'll quote the Rules of Procedure. Please sit down, listen to my quote from the Rules of Procedure. This applies to Article 223b.: "The Chair of the Assembly will not approve a recess for the meeting of the Clubs of Representatives if the request for a recess is submitted: first A – prior to the agenda set and the change to the agenda, B – for reasons related to the work of the working bodies of the Assembly and C – in connection with the withdrawal or statement of representatives outside the Assembly. I ask you not to create anything out of this that would violate a common order in the Assembly when it comes to the functioning and debates in the Assembly and I ask you not to open a discussion of the circumstances of any kind because we here do not have enough arguments for any debate. If it were to take place then the agenda would be complemented by an appropriate agenda point and we would discuss it, not that some clubs are now opening these discussions. I refuse to grant you a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77312	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the least I am and the last thing I expected from you is that you will do this. This is the precedent you made. What reason did you read in Article 223d is sufficient reason to do what you are doing now? Tell me which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77313	What's your reason for asking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77314	The death of Croatian General Djura Brodarci and the circumstances in which his death occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77315	I think you in an inappropriate and inappropriate way want to talk about it and use this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77316	Is it forbidden to speak of Croatian generals? So how do you know, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77317	I'm telling you, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77318	Mr. President, how do you know what I want to say? Me in an inappropriate way
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77319	Please sit down. Don't create, collect such cheap political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77320	What are you talking about, Mr. President? You do not allow me as a parliamentary representative to speak in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77321	Please, sit down! Do not create a new atmosphere in the Croatian Parliament, which unfortunately you have potentiated by coming to representative clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77322	Oh, Mr. President, I didn't come here for yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77323	I tolerate everyone as much as I can and no one can tell me. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77324	I came with the will of citizens who chose MPs. Oh, come on, Mr. President, I'm looking on behalf of the HDSB Representatives Club for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77325	I refuse to give you a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77326	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77327	And we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77328	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you are disrupting, you are violating the Rules of Procedure and do not treat the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77329	Please turn around.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77330	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77331	Come on, please! Please contact the Constitution Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77332	Mr. President, I won't give up my request because you haven't told me, you haven't given me a single reason, a valid reason why you're refusing my request. ... So what are you talking about? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How do you know what I'm gonna say?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77333	Come on, please! Sit down, counselor!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77334	I'm not gonna sit down, Mr. President, so don't, don't make, don't. You're deliberately provoking now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77335	Why are you making violence here in the Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77336	I don't want any warning, I don't want to be kicked out of the assembly, I want to speak in the Croatian Parliament. Is that clear to you? I want to talk because I have the right to speak. I come here to Zagreb to talk, and you don't let me talk. Mr. President, please take a break on behalf of the HDSSB club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77337	You don't need to be allowed, you say so anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77338	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. This will be the first time a club isn't allowed to exercise its right to rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77339	I refuse to give a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77340	Mr. President, don't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77341	And you can contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system if you are dissatisfied and there is no further discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77342	Mr. President, don't do this. You're a reasonable man, don't do this. I'm surprised you're doing this right now because for the first time, you're making a precedent, Mr. President. For the first time, you reject the request of a club to exercise its right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, there's still time, and you said it yourself. I ask you to, until now, you have acted with honor and consciousness to carry on until the end of this term of the Croatian Parliament. Don't do this. Realize, fulfill the right that we as a Club of Representatives have. I'd be as happy here as most if it wasn't for what happened. But unfortunately, it has come to this, and I ask you to meet our justifiable request. ... Dear colleague, I can press, dear colleague, I can hold the press and it is not at all controversial, but these are things to be talked about in the Croatian Assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Can't and can't be talked about in the Croatian Parliament about Croatian defenders, Croatian generals, those who sat here and who created the Croatian state the moment they died. We have honored various people, so can't we honor the deceased General Brodarac in the Croatian Parliament? So why are we exposed here today? What are we exposed to? That we cannot at the Croatian Assembly about Croatian defenders and Croatian generals, so what have we become? So where are you going, Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77343	I will also say this, I have published and explained that we will properly honor the former representative in the Croatian Parliament and the Mayor of Sisak-Moslavina in an appropriate and dignified way, but you insist on giving a speech here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77344	I insist because it is special circumstances in which his death occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77345	I don't accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77346	Mr. President, let's move forward with the work of the Croatian Parliament after you allow us a break that we are entitled to as a club. Don't, Madam Representative, I wasn't talking to you, I'm speaking to the President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Stop talking that way.]] Don't lecture me on how to collect political points. I want to talk about Croatian General Djuri Brodarac, not collect political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77347	I explained my position. So, no breaks. And all those MPs or MPs who are unhappy with the president's decision, anyone, me or any of the vice presidents, can ask whether we have broken or are not Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77348	Since when is it forbidden to speak, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77349	Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And the President or Chairman's decision is not discussed under our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77350	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77351	It's sad that about this tragic or sad opportunity, we're opening this debate in such a way, I think we're...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77352	No matter what debate, there hasn't been a debate yet, you haven't allowed the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77353	It's been a debate the whole time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77354	Don't throw about who should be ashamed, don't throw away. Shame should be the one who let things like this happen. Mr. President, I still insist...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77355	If it's your wish, counselor, that because of the constant and persistent speaking without permission you want to cause here some excess perhaps detachment from the session, I will sit here permanently until you give up your persistent demands for which you have received the answer. I'm not gonna take you away from the session because that would be part of what we're trying to achieve. Not only are you speaking but you are harassing the entire Assembly and you are committing violence here against the entire Croatian Assembly. Yes, it's the harassment of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77356	And it's not the bullying of us coming here to talk... [[The speaker's off, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77357	The item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Data Collection Act, Contributions to Mandatory Pension Insurance. As we have completed the debate by clubs we are moving on to an individual debate and it is up to representative Dragutin Lesar who does not have one and loses the right to debate on this agenda point. And now it is my turn to give my word to Mr Davor, the Huški representative in the Croatian Parliament, on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77358	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77359	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Mr. President... I'm warning you about the violence you're committing against the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77361	Mr. President, don't do this, don't give me a warning, just give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77362	I gave you a warning, so I'll give you another look if you keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77363	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77364	Mr. Davor Hushka.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77365	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77366	Please, have a discussion on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77367	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 223 of point A, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, I request a 10 minute break to discuss the circumstances of the tragic death of Croatian General Đura Brodarac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77368	Let me tell you something. I refuse to take that break, and I quote Article 215. Rules of Procedure: "A reminder by taking away a word shall be given to a representative who, after giving his notice, continues to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and has already been given a reminder. A reminder by taking away the words will be given to the representative when his speech offends the Croatian people, religious communities, national minorities, representatives of foreign states and international organisations." We didn't get to the second paragraph, so far we're on the first item.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77369	All right, tell me, Mr. President, any provision of paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 you may specify and give me this second warning. I don't want a warning, I don't want a word I don't want a challenge...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77370	I'm giving you a second warning by taking away your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77371	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is a shame that there is no talk in the Croatian Parliament about this tragic event, so where should we talk? Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament meet the legal request of the HDSSB Representatives Club for a break. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]] It could've been over by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77372	I'm asking the MPs and the MPs to solidify themselves and help me get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77373	The last thing I could expect for you to believe is that we will experience this, that we can't discuss the problem because this is the problem of Croatian defenders, talking in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77374	I interrupt the session at 10 and 45 with the same agenda point to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77375	Shame may be the one that led to today's... Don't you Mrs. twilight lecture anyone about it. [[The speaker's off, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77376	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the session and agenda that we have begun. We're moving on to an individual debate. ... Mr. Davor Huška. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here you go. An individual debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77377	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77378	.... /The speaker's off./.../The speakers don't understand each other because of each other's turn-on and the microphone on. /... On behalf of the HDSSB representative's club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 223a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the representative of the HDSSB, I request a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77379	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the representative won't give me his word, so I'm giving him a warning by taking away his word. ... And then on the basis of Article 216. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I give Mr Dinko Buric a strict measure of distance from the session of the Assembly because he has violated the order and violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure at the session so much that further holding of the session is at stake. Please watch the Croatian Parliament to remove Mr Dinko Buric from this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77380	Shame on you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77381	At the same time, until this strict measure is implemented, I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77382	/The speaker turned off./...the fear of unspeakable words. You've started to fear what you think I'd say. Well, I wouldn't believe it. I'll get out of here. Don't be upset at all. Shame on you. Let the Croatian public watch this. About Croatian defenders and generals with no to speak in the Croatian Assembly... /The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77383	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77384	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, Article 223a. Since we have the right to rest as a representative club, and you, as chairman of the Parliament and president of the Parliament, must give it to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to take that break or you can send the armed forces for me, but you have to give it a break. You must understand that it is the right of every club, not just the HDZ club or any other club, but also the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77385	We're continuing with a session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77386	It can't continue with the session until you give it a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77387	We can, we can, we can continue with a session of the Parliament in such a way that the agenda item we started needs to be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77388	You'll finish it, you've got time. And after the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77389	So I refuse to give a 10 minute break, and you can appeal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77390	I can complain to the jackal water.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77391	He now has the word of Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77392	I'm asking you on behalf of the club break according to the Rules of Procedure.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77393	I'll have to give you a warning to interfere with Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77394	I don't interfere with Parliament's work, you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77395	I give you a warning to interfere... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77396	You are obstructing the work of this Parliament, if you had given a 10-minute break we would have already returned from that break and the work of the Parliament would have continued.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77397	So, here you go, Mr. Lucic's hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77398	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77399	Your Honor, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77400	Well, they can shut me down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77401	Excuse me, Mr. Lucic. Article 250, you are now told a word-resuming reminder because a representative who, after giving a warning with his speech or conduct, continues to violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, has already been given a reminder. So, a reminder with a taking of words. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77402	That's the second yellow card. On the other hand, on behalf of the HDSSB Club according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77403	Please, nice. Do not commit violence against this house...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77404	I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Mr. President or Comrade President, I think the water is deep, but it's coming out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77405	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to help me continue the session because all my attempts did not bear fruit...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77406	Hello, I'm no longer with the SDP. Calm down, we have the right to a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77407	I gave Mr. Vinkovic a warning, then a reminder with a takeover, he continues to speak, and I expect that we end this session of the Parliament in one dignified, peaceful and cultural way as possible. So I ask you all, no matter where you're a stranger or any club you belong, to help me or to express solidarity, because we need to continue with the session of the Parliament and finish this agenda that we adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77408	That's my wish, too, and that's why I'm looking for Article 223a. I'm looking for a break from the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the HDSSB Club, and you have to give it to the Rules of Procedure. If you haven't read the Rules of Procedure, read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77409	Can you discuss Mr. Lucic under these circumstances? I, with great regret, will also say to Representative Zoran Vinkovic a measure of distance from the Parliament session because he has violated his conduct so much order and violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on working at the session that further holding of the session is obviously being questioned. So please the guards...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77410	Well, I'm not the one who violated this session, Mr. President, but you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77411	I ask the Croatian Parliament's guard to remove Representative Zoran Vinkovic from the session...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77412	I'll go alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77413	So we can keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77414	I'll go alone, just what you're doing...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77415	And I'm setting a five-minute break until this measure is implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77416	Because what you're doing is hypocrisy. I'm going alone. I got a break, and you'll get a break soon enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77417	Now there's a five-minute break that we've given, which I must give when I say such a measure, so please be patient in order to respect the Rules of Procedure. Is... then we will proceed because this measure has been carried out, a strict measure. Well, here's what I see is that Mr. Boro Grubisic is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77418	Mr. President, we're taking a break or whatever you want, we've had a break for over half an hour. So, if there was any reason, we could have met the request of the HDSSB club a long time ago, completely justified and legitimate, legally according to the Rules of Procedure, but here's the thing that really doesn't lead to anything. Since you gave a five-minute break, I ask you to give a word to the president of the HDSSB club, Mr Buric, who asked for it or someone from the HDSB club. And since it's a break after a break, so there was no need to defuse yourself or in any way prevent the HDSSB from talking about what he was going to say, and it's really sudden and under strange circumstances, I'm not going to prejudge the matter, the death of the Croatian general, the Croatian defender and our former counterpart, Mr. Djura Brodarac. Therefore, if you continue to insist on this and I will seek a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club of 10 minutes, and according to Article 223a of the Rules of Procedure of this Croatian Parliament, unfortunately not the State. It's not called the Croatian Parliament anymore, it's only the Croatian Parliament, and it's not the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77419	I have already denied you, your two colleagues this 10 minute break, and as you have stated the same reasons why you are looking for a break, I am also denying you a 10 minute break, and I ask you to allow the Croatian Parliament to continue its work, and you can appeal to my decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here. I think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77420	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77421	You can appeal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we would now continue the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77422	Mr. President, if we do not continue immediately and do not repeat these things, call the guards immediately because I will not give up because the HDSSB Club has a lot of right to seek a break from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure have much more important work than the numbering of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which has not yet been carried out and beyond. Therefore, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, has other things to do and smarter than what is so simple to resolve that it has good will and good intentions and good faith. Unfortunately, here you have it today, although we did not expect it from you with really maximum respect for you, I must say because you know that, I say that your colleagues have also said that they respect you as President of the Parliament, but we are asking for their right to do so, and that right is defined in Article 223a. And we're not looking for anything anymore. That's why you can call the guard right now because I'm giving up just like my colleagues at the HDSSB club won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77423	It's not the point of moving away from the session. It's absolutely necessary. because we must continue with the session of the Parliament, and I, with great regret, apply these provisions of the Rules of Procedure. [[Invadica Grubišić: Necessary evil.]] You know, I've said it a few times already. And another thing. I have informed you and the entire Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament will in a dignified and appropriate manner pay tribute to our former colleague and mayor of Sisak-Moslavina Mr. Djura Brodarac and that there is no need for any separate debate about when we have already decided to give due respect to Mr. Đura, the late Mr. Đuri Brodarac. That's why I'm denying a break in that sense for 10 minutes, otherwise we always approve of a break. In such a way that if you continue to interfere with the Croatian Parliament, then I must give you appropriate restrictive measures. [[Invadica Grubišić: Give us five minutes.]] I'm very sorry, but what can we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77424	And I'm sorry that I'm not the champion of tight measures. There are others. But Mr. President, are you aware that if there are similar outcomes in other detainees and you know that Mr. Milankovic has been hungering for 20 days, as many as 15, 20 days. And do you know what condition he's in? So I ask you on behalf of Croatia and the HDSSB Club who is here to give us that break to speak two words about it. They don't have to tell anyone else about us not to go any further. Get the HDSSB club to talk about it for five minutes. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77425	Look...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77426	We won't take up much of your time. You don't have to talk to anyone, no HDZ, no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77427	The Croatian Parliament cannot influence the medical situation of certain detainees by its debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77428	The Croatian Parliament cannot influence anything, nor can judgments affect the Hague!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77429	So there's no reason for this to open up here. This will be solved according to the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77430	Well, this isn't Mr. President SCOY!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77431	But I'm, I'm showing... Patience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77432	And I'm at the end of my patience even though I don't look like one, because we're reasonable people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77433	But you're also showing your intention which is completely clear to everyone and for what reason, etc. Because there are no MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament here, I am convinced, who do not regret every man we have lost. And about the late Mr. Đuri Brodarac there would certainly have something to say here many of these representatives, from Josip Djakic to Ivan Šuker, and Andrija Hebrang, and then Davorko Vidovic, and many others. Is it? So we'd have something to say about it, but they don't want to talk about it right now. I announced that in a dignified and dignified way, we would worship the memory of the late Djuru Brodarec. So please give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77434	Mr. President, I do not deny the right of Andrija Hebrang, nor Shuker nor the other colleagues, nor Kotromanovic, nor anyone. I do not deny the right to speak, but you deny the right of the HDSSB to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And about dignity when we speak, then there's a lot to be said. Therefore, we do not endanger the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and neither does Croatia. I'm asking you, I'm not asking, but I'm asking you to give us five minutes of words after the break as long as you want five, six, or eight minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77435	I beg the representative of the gentleman, I have given you a warning by taking away your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77436	Did you say that to me? That's the first I've heard of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77437	A little while ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77438	When did you tell me that?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77439	Well, I said first a warning, and then a reminder with a taking away word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77440	So who heard that? If you've given me a warning, it's not much. That's the fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77441	Then if I didn't give you a warning and immediately since you continue the reminder by taking away the word. And now I ask Mr. Francis Lucic to proceed with the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77442	No, Mr. President. Don't make a circus out of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77443	Who's making the circus?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77444	And so the people think it's a circus because as Mr. Knight said, we know what he said about the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77445	So, do you now realize that the reminder by taking away the word is addressed to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77446	Disrespect of Croatian defenders, disrespect of Croatian generals, ban on debate on Hague verdicts in the Croatian Assembly... a permanent component. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Don't shut me down, I've got a megaphone. ... Again... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] in which you are... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] in a way... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I'm just not giving up my rights... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I've never been kicked out of a session before. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77447	Ladies and gentlemen, by calling for Article 216. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be given a firm step away from the session of the Assembly. where he has violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure in the sitting so much as by his conduct that further holding of the session has been called into question. [[Upadica Grubišić: Bravo, excellent!]] This session is being held in front of the Croatian public and the entire Croatian Assembly is being questioned, so for this reason, Mr. Boris Grubisic is expressing a strict measure of distance from the session. Then I ask the Guard of Parliament to help Mr Bor Grubisic get away from this session, and we will, during that time, approve, or set a five-minute break, and we will continue with the work of the Parliament. So, with all my regrets, this all ended the way it ended, I ask that we continue the session and that Mr. Franjo Lucic, who received the debate on the agenda point, is under way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77448	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law on the collection of data by insurance undertakings on compulsory pension insurance contributions is a regulation governing the collection of processing and data provided by insurance undertakings of compulsory pension insurance contributions. Among other things, the law regulates the REGOS to keep the register on collected data and, according to the records, manages the single accounting of personal accounts of members of pension funds. The capitalised pension system was established in a way that, at the initial stage of implementation of the reform, key entities in the pension society system are freed from participation in the cost of carrying out single accounting of personal accounts so that these costs have been settled from the state budget. Given the current level of development of the pension system and the fact that pension societies have established a business with positive financial results, it is estimated that they are able to pay compensation for the management of the single accounting services of the personal accounts carried out by REGOS. This contributes to achieving the financial and social sustainability of the capitalised pension scheme as defined in the 2011 and 2013 government programme strategy. It is also in line with the measures set out in the Economic Recovery Programme in which one of the measures is a reduction of costs in the second pillar. In addition to these most important amendments, this bill facilitates the submission of data to the bonds by electronic means, increases the amount of fines in the event of non-resistance of the form, thus bringing the provisions of this law in line with the provisions of the Criminal Code and increasing the limitation period for the initiation of the infringement procedure, thus achieving greater discipline in the system. Since this law provides for a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget on amounts to be settled by private entities, compulsory pension societies, and the same implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme is proposed by the adoption of the emergency procedure. Also, I accept the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77449	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, so we'll decide when the conditions are met. And I would like to repeat once again, so tomorrow at 12.35 a.m., the President of the Italian Republic, Mr. Giorgio Napolitano, will address the Croatian Parliament, so please, clubs, first of all, to ensure that we are present, secondly, at 12.15 p.m. for the purpose of editing this space a little bit, etc. so that we can, so that President Napolitano can address the Croatian Parliament. And today I pray that if it's possible to partially fix the benches that we don't have a big problem about it tomorrow. Or not to spend a lot of time on it. And now we're going to go to the point... And who knows? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's how long we've been, have we lost an hour and a half on this? Who can even include and calculate the work of the Parliament. We go in order, if we skip some agenda points, we do it because there are no current conditions. As soon as it's for having conditions, we'll put it back on the agenda again, so there's no problem, except for a little bit of saying, let's do some inversions on the agenda points. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Data Collection Act on Insurance of Contributions to Mandatory Pension Insurance, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 860. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on data collection by insurance undertakings on contributions to compulsory pension insurance. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 112 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77452	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will briefly remind you, the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May 1998 created conditions for the compensation of pensioners. The Constitutional Court also adopted the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 12 May '98, and the Law on the Pension Fund was adopted for the purpose of the implementation of that law on the basis of which the Law was established and became that special pension fund from which pensioners or their successors from the first order of the year pay the sums of individual compensations by 2 models. Therefore, model A where this is paid within 2 years and model B where compensation is carried out within 6 years with a start of 2 years. According to available data at the Pension Fund, 484,000 886 compensation users were registered last December, and about 8.5 billion kuna has been paid on behalf of compensation. It is expected to be paid more. So maybe about 11 billion kuna. Under the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, compensation will be paid by the end of 2013. But what happened? About 12,000 people who were right, i.e. More specifically, according to the data of 12 thousand 214 users, no compensation was reported, no model selection was submitted. The Pension Insurance Office has written them down specifically and warned them and requested that they do and did not do so. That left 76.13 million kuna unpaid. It is now proposed that these 76 million kuna be transferred to the state budget, given the current needs of the state budget, given the fact that these funds are now untapped. In doing so, I must stress that this is not about the fact that those who have not received the compensation would still be able to report and achieve this right, neither is the deadline prescribed by law nor are we now prescribing it, so it can be talked about the general limitation period, and everyone who, even now after this transfer of funds to the state budget will get it and will achieve their right in particular, bearing in mind that for the model B remains an excess of around 100 million kuna, so there is still enough money and more than enough to pay off all these 12 thousand, however, it is likely that a significant number of these people will not be reported but it is not at this point nor determined. So, the proposal is to transfer these 76.13 million kunas to the state budget because these are the funds of the state budget from which the funds are now in the pension fund. We also propose that the law be passed by emergency procedure because it is about providing funds, i.e. transferring funds to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77453	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77454	Mr. Secretary of State, you said the Pension Insurance Department called them these 12 grand. This is not true called by the HPB Invest on the basis of the calculation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and not once, but 5, 6 times called and sent to the address of the notice that people are reporting and that they opted for a Model A or Model B compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77455	The Legislative Committee? Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77456	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 59th session held on 12 July this year, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership discussed the draft law supplementing the pension fund law. The proposer's representative met the Committee with the right to compensation for pension beneficiaries through the Pension Fund under the Pension Fund Act, according to the data in the Pension Fund on 31. 12. In 2010, 484,000 886 compensation users were registered, and 8.5 billion kuna was paid on behalf of the compensation. According to the Pension Fund Reimbursement Act, around 1.8 billion kuna will be paid by the end of 2013. There are 12 thousand 214 members of the pension fund that their owners have not reported. For payment, and it's not paid, there's 76.13 million kuna left. The proposed law therefore ensures that the shares in the Pension Fund that remained unpaid to the users due to the objective inability to pay shall be made available to the Republic of Croatia or the State budget. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the adoption of this Act and proposed unanimously to the Croatian Parliament after the debate to pass the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77457	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77458	Mr. Vice President, once again Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, let's remember the Retirement Fund Act regulates the way in which the beneficiaries of pensions from September 1st 93 to December 31st, 98. The basic legal documents to be followed in the implementation of this project are the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998 and the Law on the Pension Fund and the Statute of the Pension Fund. In order to compensate pensioners, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute identified the difference between the amount of age, early age, disability, family pensions belonging to pensioners from 1 September 93 to 31 December 1998 compared to paid pensions under the regulations of the Government of Croatia. According to the established register, the Fund members decided on the selection of the compensation model by choosing between the half payment of the amount of compensation within 2 years per model A or the payment of the total amount of compensation within 8 years from two years, that is, so on. Model B. So model A was decided by about 72% of the Fund members and model B. about 28% of the fund members. The Croatian Post Bank Invest has done an extremely complex job through communication with compensation users as well as with their successors. The pension fund on 31 December 2010 has registered 484,000 886 beneficiaries of compensation. On behalf of the compensation so far, 8.5 billion kuna has been paid and by the end of 2013, around 1.8 billion kuna is planned to be paid, until the Constitutional Court's decision to implement the compensation is fully paid. However, after the full payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries of pensions according to Model A in the pension fund, 76,13 million kuna for 12 thousand and 214 beneficiaries of compensation for which their users or heirs did not provide information on the selection of the payment model or the number of invoices to which payment would be made. For what reason? This was said several times by Hrelja’s colleague that there may be too few amounts that have not been reported. But that doesn't matter now, it's important that they didn't deliver the bills on which that payment would be made. Part of the beneficiary's right to compensation was simply deafened to calls for data delivery in order to pay them compensation on average of 6 thousand 233.7 kuna per member of the fund. It is important to stress that the present process pays compensation to the satisfaction of all users. This legislative proposal would allow unpaid funds to return to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia due to objective inability to pay after two years of their last payment obligation. A period of two years is enough for all those who have an interest in the realisation of their membership rights in the fund and the funds from those who do not have such an interest will return to the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club supports the proposed resolution of the Pension Fund Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77459	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77460	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Fund Act for which it is to be said is the implementing law of another law which gave Croatian pensioners the right to compensation because they were suspended for part of their pension from 1993 to 1998, somewhere around 30% of their pension. In fact, the law gave them greater rights, and the government's regulations paid for a lower level of law. So, after the Constitutional Court's decision on 12 May 1998, the decision was to be implemented and operated until the end. It has been partially realised by collective methods during the last HDZ government and the first coalition government in a way that paid compensation through a collective method, paying 100 kn plus 6% higher than the basis of the pension for each user who was damaged. Only by adopting the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision of 15 July with effect on 5 August 2004 did the assumption that individual damage suffered by each pensioner begin to be calculated. And according to this law, more than 750 thousand HZMO pensions were accounted for in order to calculate how damaged someone was, how paid in the meantime, and to whom it was overpaid, or to whom it was left to pay the difference. Of course it's not this law but it's the basis for this law and there's not much to object to the whole process except that in part of the compensation are definitely it I always have to mention the other three categories of definitely damaged pensioners. They're not involved in the compensation bill. These are family pensions that changed between 1993 and 1998, so the person replaced his pension with a family pension, entered into account only that part after the replacement, not the previous part, and the damage existed either on his or her personal or previous pension. The second category is people who retired from 1993 to 1998 but then got a job, and there are about 700. The third category is also political prisoners who got a pension from political prisoners long after 1998, but as beneficiaries of the political pension were damaged between 1993 and 1998 but failed to exercise the right to compensation. So, if the project has what it's against, they're three categories. That's where I would stand with the predecessor of this law. This law is indeed a law on the conduct of so-called form thus instrumentation through this law alone payment according to model A and model B compensation, after being calculated after the beneficiaries of the compensation accepted model A or model B. model A was 50% within two years in 4 wars or project B was the nominal amount within 8 years with a start of 2 means in 6 wars and for model B has to make two more payments with the subsequent involvement of family and highest labour pensions in the compensation process some year later, which will win its last war in 2013 and this will be the end of this project if something else does not happen to these categories that I mentioned. As far as the Retirement Fund Act is concerned, there's only one part of it that can be questioned, it can be speculative. Did the legislator have to say that the damages as such apply solely to the heirs of the first inheritance order not to the custodians? That's the only discussion we have, but there's nothing else we can discuss here too much. I must speak plainly why these 12 thousand 214 users of compensation could not have reported. Some of them still have an active lawsuit. They are the legislator or the basis of the new law they are classed into model A, at any moment if they still give up the lawsuit they have the right to their compensation according to model A. money for it has, there are among those 100 million that we will not talk about today and we will not decide, which are also left out of four wars by model B. The second group among these 12000 is people who died without an heir, that is so on. Ossal property and it becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia and they are in these 76 million. And the third largest group in 12,000 people who didn't show up today is those who have calculated the symbolic amount of compensation. I've been going, I've looked at all these damages, you've got damages of $0.20, 0.50 kuna, 100 kuna, 50 kuna, 40 kuna, thousands of people getting one significant sum. But I understand these people that when someone asked them if they wanted to pay 40 kunas, 50% in four wars or a full sum in eight years that, let's be a little rude, they sent everything to the People's Dictionary and gave up and didn't want to spend money on a stamp to mess with this. So this money we're talking about is 76 million kuna, so there's no dilemma about it being transferred to the state budget. This is about the following, the Republic of Croatia all this money is allocated to the shares of the Republic of Croatia. We don't change anything here, they belong to the Republic of Croatia, only in some way to this decision, by amending and supplementing this law, we say that we can withdraw them before the fund is liquidated. Sooner or later, these money would belong to the Republic of Croatia because all the shares that the citizens did not apply to belong to the Republic of Croatia. So nothing spectacular is done here but the immobilised funds in this fund, which is referred to the shares of the Republic of Croatia, can be withdrawn before the fund is liquidated. Therefore, the members of the fund can also be sure of all payments until the end, whether the fund has money or has no money or is only a obligation of the Republic of Croatia, because in this case, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is so legally justified that each of them is essentially correct, has a specific extrajudicial settlement that has agreed to the compensation model, and the state has set deadlines in which the compensation will be carried out and, in the event of failure to comply with that obligation, it would be possible to proceed with the country's final procedure. Therefore, the legal certainty of the beneficiaries of the compensation, so 120 more or almost 140 thousand pensioners, or their successors, for the compensation of these two other wars, is very, very large or virtually impossible to provide greater guarantees than they have and quite certain that the compensation will be carried out. Secondly, because of the money spinning in the fund, they can get 10 lips more or less per share in the finals, but the fundamental principle of the law that must be respected is that no one should get any lip below the nominal damage and this principle will be respected until the end. Therefore, no one's right will be compromised, or there is no difference in the cost of the amount or the amount of the compensation. Therefore, we also understand the need of the state, the need for a state budget to be used somewhere, and can be used in an operational sense, that it has the right to consolidate the financial situation of the state to withdraw, so we also understand the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to have these funds because, thus, the Government has assumed responsibility for fulfilling this compensation until the end. Therefore, we will not make any obstacles to this law, although the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support the adoption of this law because we believe that there is no benefit for anyone to have these money lying in the fund as an immobilised share of the Republic of Croatia which is worth financially and can be used by the state for other purposes at this time. Here are two laws, not much, but the savings are almost 120, not nearly, but exactly 120 million kuna, which is worth our efforts and is worth our attention. So I repeat again, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party will support the adoption of the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77461	Thank you. During your speech, Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic raised a tile indicating that he wanted to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll read paragraph 209. I think that's useful for this. A representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure shall be given the floor as soon as this request has been made. The speech of that representative may not last longer than 1 minute, and the representative must immediately specify an article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. The president is obliged to give an explanation after the complaint has been made. If the representative is not satisfied with the explanation given, he may request to deliver an opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system within 24 hours. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without debate. Mr. Representative Drmic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77462	In accordance with Article 223a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I answered my word to ask for a break on behalf of the club. Members of my club at the previous point you kicked out of the Croatian Parliament which I think is unremembered in the history of this tall body, the highest in the Republic of Croatia. I think that the reason why you should not be, not the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but from the session to the session is because you too, Mr. Chairman, as well as your colleagues from the ruling coalition who have the opportunity to chair this High House use and abuse the Rules of Procedure and that chair to prevent my club from taking out what it wants after this microphone and for this speaker. I would ask you to set a break of 10 minutes so that my club can take a stand on how to continue working in this House of Commons since we have been distracted all along and trying to prevent us in a democratic, non-democratic way to present their opinion, our programme in this place for which we have been chosen by our voters from Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77463	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In accordance with the provisions of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, you have stated the reasons why you hold that it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to give you an explanation and I'm giving you an explanation that this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I take all the reasons that have already been presented earlier in the previous three cases why it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And you now, if you wish, as I have stated, if you are not satisfied with my explanation, you can ask that your opinion be given to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77464	I asked for a break of 10 minutes, and I raised this Staff Regulations injury bat so you'd notice me because I raised my hand five times, so you didn't react to any of the three of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77465	Okay. So my explanation is that it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure in the event of a request for a break and disapproval of a request for a break. You in this way, in my explanation you answer in this way. You are not asking for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I've given an explanation that it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Let's discuss it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77466	You must give me a break according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77467	Thank you very much. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77468	And Article 223. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77469	I give you a reminder by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77470	So I think what kind of behavior is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77471	I'm giving you a strict range of distance from the session. I'm interrupting the session. I'm asking the guards to complete the president's order.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77472	You can be ashamed of yourself! You killed Djuru Brodarac, and you don't want to hear it, not you, not the Prime Minister, all those who support me in this House, and you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. You can, but not forever! It's very short.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77473	I also ask the guards to prevent the entrance to the hall and representatives of Drmic and other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77474	You can be ashamed of all of you! Is that the state? It's nothing. The God of those people who died for her!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77475	We're going to continue the session. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77476	I'm not gonna say what I'd say, but okay. I'm going to talk about this bill called the Retirement Fund. It means the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act with the final draft law. So, so far as we've heard from the clubs or from the secretary of state, it's either paid back or how to say eight and a half billion kuna. I will first quote this part of these provisions, not provisions, but arguments on the other, or third party, and then it is said that according to the available information to the Pension Fund on 31 December 2010, 484.8 thousand indemnities were recorded, and on behalf of the compensation paid, it means 8 and a half billion kuna under the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. The payment of compensation from the Pension Fund will last until the end of 2013 until more than 1.8 billion kuna are paid to beneficiaries of the compensation. However, it is said further after the full payment of compensation to the beneficiaries of pensions according to model A in the pension fund remained unpaid a total of 76 million and 130000 kuna for 12 thousand 2 hundreds and 14 beneficiaries of compensation for which their beneficiaries or their successors who have the right to compensation did not provide data, etc. etc. So, what do you say? Unbelievable but almost true. It is amazing that there are those in the Republic of Croatia who have not been willing to earn their money. Well, they wouldn't take others out of their mouths. Why? Because that money is secure. It's about 76.1 million kuna. That money has earned those 12214 users of model A and I agree if these people don't want their money what else he needs to get it back into the budget. We heard just before that these people were invited on five occasions to simply make a request for a refund. It is irrelevant whether it was the funds or whether it was the Mirovinski system. They got a call five times. They've gone deaf five times. Now we may come to be. To spend that 76.1 million kuna. Otherwise, let me just say that each of those 12214 users has the right to return the circus 6233 kuna. When we divide those 12214, it means 76 million with those 12214 on average is that somewhere it's 6233. Okay, somebody's got maybe 20 grand. So it's true, yes. Someone's entitled to 20,000, someone's got 40 kunas that Mr. Hrelja was talking about. Someone may be entitled to 30,000 kuna. Well, it's not a game, and someone's entitled to 120 kuna. I can understand that someone doesn't want 40 kunas or 120 kunas. But it's hard for me to understand that someone doesn't want 6233 kunas. The average of 6233 kuna is 850 euros. With 850 euros as far as I know, there's a lot to be done. 850 euros is a large amount of money for MPs, ministers, and where pensioners who may receive a fee of 2 or 2 and a half thousand kuna. Now that money will belong to the state. Absolutely fine if you won't do it as much as possible, but return it to the budget. But the question is why spend these 76 million kunas now, which is somewhere, let's say 10 million euros. My proposal would be because now, as this OTP is called, it sells those 10% shares of Podravka. So this bank sells, to take over those shares, if they do not want pension funds to do so, let the Croatian government do so with that money. Perhaps this would correct one, which I know, transaction of one of the national systems that somehow held, stabilise the space of an entire county or northwestern part of Croatia, and then why this was granted to OMV, MOL or whoever, it doesn't matter now, OTP. What we might be able to do is call the users again, so let's say that within 30 days, so if you don't do that, then the money is government. Maybe some of that first inheritance order, if they're abroad or something, don't even know they're entitled to that money. I think it would be logical to give people another chance of time. I said, I repeat, the others said, it also says in the explanation that so far, so in those few years, 8.5 billion kuna has been paid. It's big money for the state, when I say state I don't mean government, I don't mean ministers, I mean 4.3 million people in the Republic of Croatia. True, that money or that law some have won elections in this country, so it was also an electoral measure, but above all it was the correcting of a historical injustice and it should be clearly unequivocally acknowledged. For the state it means insurance, 8.5 billion kuna was a big deal, but surely the compensation of the pensioners when they were getting 10, 15, 20, some and 40,000 kunas for them was an even bigger thing. Unfortunately, however, it is something else to retire to those who were damaged in '93. By '98, it means during that period, that then pensions were higher than today when almost 40% of the average salary was not reached again. Today we're not going to damage anyone else, clearly we should, but what we're going to do is just that's almost impossible. What's going on from 1.07.2009 to today? This country has lost 145 thousand jobs. It's a huge blow, clearly, to the budget and above all to the pension system. Of these 145 thousand people today, 50,000 people are working on black, which will say they don't pay any contributions, 50 grand have been found at the Employment Service to which the state needs to secure a certain fee, and 50 grand has gone into retirement, which will say that again the state through the pension system needs to provide them with pensions. That's how we came to have 1,22 employees, as many as 1 pensioners. At only 1.22 workers, we have one pensioner. And it's a clear disaster. Mr. Vidovic spoke in that previous debate that the ratio was '90. The year was 1 to 3, he mentioned the ratio 1 to 9 and that from the '50s if I'm not mistaken, but by the '50s nobody in this country worked or almost nobody was in that pension system of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia later. So it's easy to understand, but it may not be an example to be called upon. The fact is, are we ever? In the '90s, we had almost 2 million jobs, then we had 600 thousand pensioners. Today we have under a million and 500 thousand jobs. For the large number of losses of these jobs is due, under quotes "deserved" war, conversion, etc., but today we already have over a million and 200 thousand pensioners. Perhaps only in Istria, if I'm not mistaken, is the number of jobs today the same as in the '90s. But in Istria, the number of pensioners also jumped drastically compared to the 1990s. But why is it so down in Istria? Because in Istria, industry is still the first economic branch, although we are all viewed dominantly as a tourist destination. But well, that doesn't matter. It is important to start new investments in this country, to start this one economic system. Without it, there will be no jobs. To draw that capital from the side as well. Last year, only $400 and a few million were invested in the country, a year ago about 2 billion and something, and there in 2008, about 4.5 billion dollars. Afterwards, there will likely be this Public Procurement Act. Public procurement, if I'm not mistaken, in 2009 amounted to as much as $42 billion or 45 billion, and last year everything, if I'm not mistaken, is 22 billion. Now, based on this data alone, the loss of the nearly 20 thousand billion through public procurement can tell how much economic activity fell, how small, large crafts or not important companies lost their ability to work and earn. So, the goal must be to keep the job as a pupil of your eye. Mr. Hrelja used to talk about three categories since the return payment. So these are primarily family pensions, they're the ones that were, say, retired in '93, '94. and '95. but they got a job in '96, '97. It doesn't matter, they're political prisoners, but there are two other categories, and these are JNA officers who were loyal citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not and avoided the population from the landscape, I'm glad you admit it, but what are we going to do? It will hardly be corrected now, but it should be apostrophe, no judgments, no decisions of the Constitutional Court, no return, no possibility etc., etc. What I want to finish, I think it would be good to give another deadline, maybe 30, 60 days, I don't know, to that first most likely inheritance order to simply answer whether they accept on average those 6 thousand 233 kuna and 7 limes or give up benevolently in favour of the state. It's true, there are those here who would have to agree, "must" under quotes, that's their money, on the return of 50 or 100 kuna, but there are those who could get 20 and more thousand kuna. So here I am on purpose speaking, and I'm appealing to you, so please come in. Maybe it's not too late. The law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal, you have opportunities, try to get your money earned fairly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77477	Thank you for the two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77478	I think the Honorable Mr. Cain was corrected, all this thesis about an average of 6300 I calculated yesterday, but it just didn't. When you enter the structure of those 12 grand then you would come up with some number that 9,000 people have damages of up to 500 kuna. Then you have one piece that keeps going around the trial that has damages of 50, 70,000 kunas, but they're looking for 150 in court, and you've got some who've had their first payment but the next 3 haven't, they don't have an heir, and we can call as many as you want, if there's no heirs here to call for damages. So these are objective circumstances and I'm going to talk about it on behalf of the club for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77479	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Cain told one inaccuracy and said that the return of debt to the pensioners was an election measure. That's not true, colleague Cain. The return of the debt is the execution of the Constitutional Court decision of 12 May 98, which we had the chance to listen unfortunately to that many questioned in this House of Commons. But I'm glad you gave this positive information about Istria and about all these relations and pensioners and I'm glad you're back to the truth in some way and it's denying that your thesis on the neglect of Istria. But I'm also glad that before the end of this term you approached the truth and last night in the journal you confirmed that when you said that thesis in terms of the bill, this one helped the president, so he has to come back now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77481	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77482	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I join those who will support this proposal of this law for the simple reason that listening to all these arguments is easily possible that no one will ever answer again, but there is no reason not to support a colleague of Cain who invites all those who for any reason have missed the opportunity to get what the law has given them to do yet. It is about the great money 76 million kuna is not a small amount of money, it is the money of our citizens and it would be best to find it in their pocket, if it is not possible then it is a logical solution that this money does not stand immobilized in the pension fund rather than go into the state budget and that it is then as smart as possible and for the benefit of Croatian citizens to use and spend. It is good that this story that lasts for years, 15 years in Croatia and will mark Croatia's policy for the first 20 years of the Croatian state in one burdensome way for all who have been able to take care of the pensioners and their pension rights to slowly put on ad act. This does not mean that one day someone will not calculate and all the mistakes that have happened and all the solutions that have gone into that situation that occurred in 93 years in extremely unfavourable conditions, I have to say with a lot of understanding during the time and difficulties in which Croatia was found during the Homeland War but also a disdain against the way in which just the Croatian pensioners were chosen as those who will pay in financial terms the highest price and sacrifice. That was bad, that shouldn't have happened and the Constitutional Court ruled as it had. Perhaps the opportunity for a brief reminder is because he likes to pollemize on this issue, and even a colleague in his correction tried to plant something that almost becomes true after so much repetition of the way the pension debt was recognised and returned. Those who are a little more concerned with the system, those who, not like you colleagues, are not gleaning in newspaper texts and party ads, know that this debt has returned in five ways. The first to return something was Matesha's government, they introduced an extra of 50 kuna to partially compensate the pensioners for the debt made by the government of their predecessors. That way somewhere around 2 billion kunas are returned to the pensioners from what was taken from them. However, the real start and the biggest effects in the repayment of debt were achieved between 2000 and 2003 when the law was passed to increase pensions in order to eliminate differences in the levels of pensions achieved in different periods. When one-time pensions increased by 770,000 pensioners of 20%. 770,000 pensioners received compensation as a permanent and life-long right. I remind you that since the data is now being shown at the Pension Insurance Office, it is thus returned to the pensioners to this day with 100 kuna and 6%, which we have also introduced as the permanent right of all pensioners, to pensioners more than 40 billion kunas, 40 billion kunas. According to the laws passed from 2000 to 2003. The subsequent return or compensation of 10 billion or 11 as scheduled, according to Model A and B, is slowly ending. That model would, and that way, no one would mind the pensioners getting something else out of it because there were serious problems with calculating that debt. You know, my first day of work, I remember that in 2000, was just dedicated to returning and resolving the debt of the pensioners and resolving the Constitutional Court's decision. The first question was, what was the debt? There were incredible differences in calculations from those who calculated only amounts for which they were cut off to those who were calculating interest rates and those who were calculating interest rates, so that the debt was estimated at between 24 and 70 billion kuna. In such circumstances, it was certainly not possible to find a solution that would be fair and just for all pensioners and that would be both financially and economically sustainable. Don't forget that at that time we had an arrangement with the IMF and the World Bank and that any increase in social rights according to their requirements if we wanted to participate in those arrangements was out of the question. I'm proud today of the solution we've found, to increase our pensions so that we've deployed the debt as a lifetime right. I am proud of this solution even though it was clear to me then, and today I realize that it was not a very fair solution. In fact, it was not fair for those people who failed to see the return of the debt that had indeed been done to them and the damage that had not been compensated to them or to their successors. It was a serious complaint and a serious lack of that model. But I assure you especially dear pensioners that there was no model that today's pensions would be half the value they're now receiving. It was a crucial and most large move, and I must say a unique case that in Croatia any category, let alone the largest group, is once increasing their rights by 20%. Not to make up but to tell the truth also confirms a subsequent additional return, or additional compensation that has taken into account the money that has been paid by then. Otherwise, 420 thousand people wouldn't be left without the possibility of that subsequent damage. ... How much? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Four hundred and twenty thousand people received £0.00 a calculation of how much I have the data. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In other words, by the start of this compensation, largely and mostly poorer pensioners were resolved. He was getting rid of and getting rid of the future. As long as our pensioners are alive as they receive their pensions, they will receive an increased pension on that basis, because if that were not unfortunately, those pensions would be at a catastrophic low today, and they are too low anyway. The whole sad story about taking pensions, and their return should be a lesson that no one in any social group is being reduced for any reason, and especially not in an illegal manner by social rights. The possibilities for these mistakes of the ID are then getting more and more difficult every day. So the improvisations we've seen in the last seven years that we've seen in the pension system, even when it seemed to be in favor of a group of pensioners didn't come well. The systematic and serious solutions we talked about in the previous point are the only way and by creating a consensus again on the fact that serious issues that have long-term decades of consequences should not be broken over their knees or concluded that will result from the need to reach any part of the electoral body. The peace system is a serious system, it's a serious problem. You see by the countries of the world when changes are made in the pension system are major turmoil, social unrest, disorder etc. We managed to implement a new system with full consent and political parties as well as trade unions and employers. We have managed to implement probably one of the most tangible reforms that has been made since its beginning in Croatia. It would be good to carefully analyse everything that has been done by respecting and respecting the profession and that these mistakes that have been made in the system are being eliminated with as little new damage as possible, which unfortunately is also happening to us. So, we support this bill, and we expect the ministry to be registered for the last months or days of the term of office of this government, that the world and life do not stop by elections or life ends in the mandates of individual governments, that even now they take serious work in terms of mobilising exactly the most professional part of the public we have, and that in one I would say a professional and objective way of making solutions that they can offer certain political options if they want, if not, but that they need to be asked for consent and that there are no questions that will be pre-election, and in this regard to the social security of such a large number of people as the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77483	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vidovic incorrectly said that here on such an important issue as the repayment of the debt to pensioners is politicized and that I have in my correction in some way confirmed it. That's incorrect. And it doesn't occur to me, of course, that I'm politicizing matters this important, but we're talking facts. And the facts are that the Constitutional Court's decision was carried out by this government, so it's undeniable. And you've been able to do that but you're not and now you're making these assessments would be the amount of one or the same, it doesn't hold water in any way. And another thing, when you were so socially sensitive at a time when you were the minister of social care why you allowed yourself to return it to the Croatian wartime disabled and other things. So, I think... /The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77485	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77486	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the course of the debate, we have heard that the 2005 Retirement Fund Act is in force, it was completed in 2007, and therefore the law was passed in order to implement this decision of the Constitutional Court of 12 May '98, and in order to compensate the pensioners. And to remind myself once again, perhaps that compensation by the pensioners refers to the period from September 1st of '93 to December 31st, '98. In this sense, the Pension Fund managed by the Croatian Post Bank Invest, which therefore operates on the basis of the law, but of course also on the basis of the Statutes of the Pension Fund. In order to compensate pensioners, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute identified the difference between the amount of age, early age, disability, family pensions belonging to pensioners since 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. The largest number of beneficiaries who were entitled to compensation were those entitled to pension by 31 December of '93, with about 370,000 of them with an average amount of 28,000 indemnities. According to the established register, the fund members decided therefore as we heard about the selection of the compensation model by choosing between the half payment of the sum of the compensation, so within a period of 2 years model A or the payment of the total amount of compensation within 8 years from the start of 2 years, model B. So about 72% of the fund members decided for model B, and for model B about 28% of the fund members, and in that part, it must certainly be said that HPB Invest did a very complex job through communication and compensation users, as with their successors. Despite the full efforts of the HPB Invest, however, there were some difficulties, and according to the data available in the Pension Fund, 484866 users were registered on December 31st, paid 8.5 billion. There is still around 1.8 billion kuna, and it is all known, some 11 billion kuna, and this should be completed in 2013. So as I was saying, there was a model A almost finished, and so the Pension Fund left 76 million kuna unpaid for 12214 users who didn't simply appear as a colleague of the Hrelja, for the reasons of these... And there was a small amount, unfortunately some of them died. [[You don't understand.]] And in that sense, since there is no legal framework which, therefore, would not have been, which could be paid in the Pension Fund because of non-cooperation, this amendment of the law was therefore necessary. And I, since it's all been said so far, would have joined this agreement and will therefore support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77487	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77488	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Milinkovic, I completely agree that the problem is that it's since '93. until '98. the year has diminished pensions for pensioners, and this should not have happened. I couldn't agree more, and that's why the Constitutional Court's decision must have been fair, and that's how it damaged the pensioners. I also certainly support all those thoughts that this should be a good lesson, that no social group should be taken of their money, that it is not devoid of them, etc., because unfortunately this is exactly the lesson of the SDP when it was in power in 2000 it was obviously then known that it had already taken away workers or derrogated collective contracts, so it took away some of their rights from collective contracts which later came normally to be charged to this government somewhere in the amount of 2 billion kuna which is also not safe to throw away. Well, I'm glad when there is, today in 2011, when there is a certain fellow who at the time acted very high functions, in the SDP they realized that a lesson should be applied that no social category should be taken away from anything, and especially what belonged to them or illegally, because in principle it all comes to a charge like this... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77489	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Kunst, I think this is really a key word to learn from everything. I think that, in any case, to learn and not to make any more mistakes, and in that sense, I don't think that this mistake should have happened during the coalition government to do so many things that you said, of course, that the government had to continue to execute through court decisions, to repay the debt. But it's nice to hear these words today and now we've done this, we've done that. But I'd like to repeat myself on that proverb of my colleague Bagaric who said that he spoke more of our actions than we could say to say in any way acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77491	Thank you. Five-minute debate, Club of HNS Representatives, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77492	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The debate raised several key questions worth answering. I'm here in a double role, I'm in opposition right now but I'm an active participant in the implementation of this whole compensation process and I care about defending what's really correct and high-quality. What I would blame everyone for not having the right as parliamentary representatives, even though all citizens speak in a Colloquial way about debt returns, we do not have the right to call it that because if there was a debt coming back here, then the two budgets would not be enough to pay back the debt. It is the Constitutional Court's decision to compensate citizens for the short part of the pension from 1993 to 1998. The best thing would have been if it hadn't happened at all, then the damage wouldn't have happened. Thus, with a time-out in solving problems, there are damaged and irreversibly damaged. By the time the decision was made in 1998, a part of those people had already died that had been damaged. In 2004, when the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision was passed for six years, again one number of people died and did not exercise the right to compensation because of one fact that our pension system does not know, until the adoption of this special law, the inheritance of the right to inherit damage that simply does not exist as such in our Pension Insurance Act, so in general regulations. Therefore, it is very difficult to say whether it could have been more correct and better dealt with with with with with with the time gap. Of course, it was not a matter of our will whether collective ways of repaying compensation would be included and 0.5 to 20% and 100 kuna plus 6% in the Law on the Implementation of Decisions, but rather the Constitutional Court's decision said that these were compensation models and had to be incorporated into the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. So that's not the story we wanted or didn't want. It simply had to be installed in the calculation of total compensation. It's still worth answering here that ex-military officers, so the military personnel who went into labor pensions in 1991, all went into account and all were compensated. Retired Krajina were not in the system except after '96. When they checked in, they couldn't get any damage. And in the end, it should be said that this is a big project, that it is a project that proves the functioning of the rule of law, that only my Istria from this project and the pensioners will get a full period of compensation of 750 million kuna. You should say why the Pension Fund as an investment fund. So people don't pay for this tax damage. So these are the details you should always say. And of course we should call everyone again if they've forgotten, if the circumstances haven't come forward. And there's no danger that they're not going to get their funds, because these 76 million are the rest of the model and of the ones that paid out practically ended. However, there are still 100 million kunas in the fund that are likely to be later discussed from the B-variance of the compensation. So, those who receive compensation in six or six war damages. Therefore, we too can appeal to all those who have washed. However, the fact is yet our analysis has come to us that it is 9000 people who have less than 500 kuna of compensation, that it is about people who have died and that it is about people who at no cost want to give up the trial. And that when we add all of this together, it's really true that the statistical data that my colleague Cain said is true. But usually statistics act like bikinis. He often discovers what's interesting and hides what's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77493	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal for a public procurement law has not yet been matured for debate at the plenary session because the board has not sent a report on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77494	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 862. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 114 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77495	. So we'll move on to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 864. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by representatives of Mrs Djurdja Adlesic and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Proposer representative, State Secretary Daniel Mileta will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77496	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected parliamentary deputies, parliamentary deputies. The current Law on Electronic Communications entered into force on 1 July 2008 and was at that time fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. I say it was because, in 11 months 2009, the European Commission adopted a series of comprehensive supplements, amending the existing legal framework through two directives and one regulation – Directives 2009/136, 2009/140 and Regulation 1211/2009. That is why we have joined amendments and additions to the existing law because this Law was one of the criteria for closing Chapter 10. – Information society and media in the talks, i.e. the talks to join the European Union. This law was preceded by a public debate, a comprehensive one. For the first time, this law was also attended by representatives of industry, electronic services and technology sectors, and also representatives of consumer protection associations. This law has also been sent to, as a draft to 30 addresses where we have analysed or accepted or not accepted with fat explanations or accepted with small changes. This law was designed to try not to harm either industry or users without being at the benefit of the Republic of Croatia. The main issues covered by this law are, above all, the additional strengthening of the national, that is, the Croatian postal and electronic communications agency that is gaining independence and independence. This law is further in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The jurisdiction of inspection from this domain is transferred from the body, i.e. our ministry – the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, the infrastructure at HAK. Furthermore, mechanisms for the protection of the rights of users of electronic communications services, including persons with disabilities, are strengthened. The process of market analysis is being improved, mechanisms for the management of electronic communications infrastructure are being strengthened. This would, for example, be the most significant issues that are being regulated by this law and the reasons why these changes are being made and complemented. I still have to point out that no funding from the state budget is necessary for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77497	Thank you. The committees? For legislation? For European integration? Chairman of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77498	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 64th session, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. The Committee discussed the final draft law as a parent working body. The debate showed the need to take up Article 28. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications determines that an infrastructure operator should possess a valid permit, not a building permit, for reasons of legalisation and legal use. It is necessary to oblige the infrastructure operator by law to provide the necessary permits in order to gain insight into the real state of the existing electronic communications infrastructure. After that debate, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, and we propose an amendment to Article 28, which reads: "In Article 28(1), paragraph 1, the word building is replaced by the word usable." And the reason is, the reason for these changes is that the infrastructure operator would by law oblige to provide the necessary authorisation and to gain insight into the real state of the existing electronic communications infrastructure and buildings legalise and use it in a legal manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77499	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić, please. My colleague Nenadić, you circled the word individually. Come on, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77500	Thank you, Vice President. A little mistake, it happens. Here, very briefly on behalf of the HDZ Club, we support these amendments, although in 2008, when the current law was passed, everything was in line with EU directives. As telecommunications and electronics are constantly progressing, certain directives, the new EU directives in 2009, and of course we, as a future EU member, need to bring our legislation into line with this. And we also need to comply with our legislation as is the general administrative procedure. These are here you see quite a number of articles of change and there are quite a lot of professional terminology. I say, it is necessary because electronics are progressing quickly, where luck is that other segments and other things are progressing, and I would not repeat it, there is no need, therefore, that the HDZ club is supporting these changes to be fully compatible with all EU directives and therefore in the field of telecommunications, and indeed there we are, we are good and we follow everything here. And that's why we support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77501	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77502	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 864. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications and by representative Đurđa Adlešić. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Mr. Daniel Miletta, State Secretary. Please make it clear on the amendment of MP Đurđa Adlešić to Article 103.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77503	Therefore, the above amendment is not accepted by reason: Article 103. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications is amended in Article 108 of the Law governing the covert supervision of electronic communications networks and services. Those amendments do not introduce a new obligation for an electronic communications operator in relation to the identification of the users of services because that obligation has been in force since July 2008, therefore already existing law, but only more precisely regulates the implementation of this obligation to the competent authorities authorised to apply covert surveillance measures for electronic communications networks and services. In doing so, it should be noted that the mandatory registration of users of pre-paid services, etc. The "prepaid of users" has already been introduced into 8 EU member states. It is Denmark, Spain, Italy, France, Germany, Greece, Slovakia and Bulgaria. Finally, such a provision was not opposed by the European Commission in its previous opinion on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77504	Thank you. Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State explained this very seriously to me, I must admit, but I still think that my amendment is on the trail of human rights protection above all because this amendment certainly won't prevent those who buy these cards in Bosnia or in another country of the neighborhood, but you will therefore violate human rights and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77506	Who's in favour of this amendment? Please raise your hands, which the government does not accept. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Maritime, Transport and Relations Committee in relation to Article 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77507	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77508	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 109 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77509	We move to the next point - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Audiovisual Activities is an emergency procedure. The Proposer is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Nina Obulen will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs before you are amendments to the Law on Audiovisual Activities, which is adopted under the Programme of Economic Recovery, and concerning the measure to encourage investment. At first, I would like to emphasise that the amendments to this law are also foreseen by the National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation for 2010. 2014 – The 4th measure of this strategic document provides for the promotion of investment in domestic film, film industry and the export of film services. At first, I would like to say that, as with the other laws, we have drawn up this draft amendment and the addition of the law in the working group and that there has been an appropriate public debate and as the first basic reason for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law, I would stress exactly the promotion of investment. Namely, these measures will revive domestic and foreign investment in the Croatian audiovisual sector, and as a result of the adoption of a complete system of measures and incentives for domestic and foreign teams that implement their projects in the Republic of Croatia using our locations and the creative and technical services of the domestic audiovisual industry. More specifically, a financial incentive is being introduced to invest in the production of audiovisual works as cultural products in the form of a 20% refund on the total amount of costs made for the production of audiovisual works in the Republic of Croatia, which refers to played, animated and documentary films, television films and television series, which will significantly increase foreign and domestic investment in the production of audiovisual works in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to point out that Croatia's entire performance this year at the Cannes Festival, which is the most important place to promote such measures, was in the sign of promoting Croatia's idea as a location for recording and that there is already a great interest, so we expect that the results of these measures will begin in 2012. In addition, in the amendments and amendments to the laws, we took advantage of the opportunity that certain issues which may not have been best addressed by the current law adopted in 2007 are improved, which concerns Article 36, which regulates the issue of contributions to the audiovisual centre, i.e. for the programme of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia; more precisely defined audiovisual activities and audiovisual works, producers, have defined a cultural product, a difficult or demanding act, which is a prerequisite for such incentives to be given in accordance with the rules on state aid. A more precise issue of conflict of interest and certain infringements has been settled. Finally, it should be mentioned that the implementation of this law will require certain appropriations in the budget for next year, but the projection is of course that this return will actually be secured from the inflows of investments we expect in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77511	Thank you to the Legislative Committees? For information and information and media? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77512	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Legal regulation of the topic of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia because most of us are not engaged in any way, it may seem less important at first sight, however, from the opening words of the State Secretary it is given the impression of how much repercusion in a positive sense can be better governed by the topic of audiovisual activity in the Republic of Croatia and that multiple and multilayered. This is not just about technical solutions, it is not about organisational solutions, it is not about the amendments and additions of the Law being arranged by an area that has not been organised in a very long way so far in a way that guarantees the good future of the Croatian audiovisual industry, but also about a regulation whose framework and implementation can have a significant impact on the future above all what we are interested in as a Croatian Parliament is Croatian broadcasting, and then all independent producers within the Croatian audiovisual industry. In this sense, the discussions that are conducted in the working group but which are conducted these days through different regulations, the correspondence of those who deal with audiovisual activities from the Parliament itself and the public are not only academic debates and recommendations on certain definitions, the recommendations on certain solutions that exist in the existing legal text or the proposal for amendments and additions are not insignificant and they certainly do not have a bad background but have a reflection of one experience and I would say the desperate needs of the Croatian audiovisual industry, which is mainly made by people of the artistic profile, therefore, creative creators that this area is better arranged and that the future of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia will be at the benefit of both Croatian culture and media space, but that is equally important for all those who are directly or indirectly cultural audiovisual production. In fact, the current situation is not good at all. Namely, when we compare the times behind us in which Croatia was one of the important players on the European and world map of making audiovisual art, above all, it is about films and when es compares that famous time of the Adriatic film with the present time, then we will be able to simply conclude that the capacities of the Croatian audiovisual industry are extremely unused. On the one hand, a legitimate question arises whether the Republic of Croatia, whether the Croats, whether members of an ethnic group in the future European Union will be able to maintain their cultural specialities in an effective way and perhaps even more important not only to preserve them but to promote them, present and make not only a legitimate part of European cultural space, cultural production, heritage, but also how we will do so in order to ensure that Croatian culture, its heritage, its contemporary production, can be respected through its knowledge. This is a very important issue at the threshold of the European Union, for every small nation, for every small country, and for the Republic of Croatia. What are our chances? Our chances are really great because we have one tradition, we have experience, we have a whole series of creative, productive and artistic capacities that are currently untapped and actually proven. Not only do we also possess a whole series of topics that we could place in our cultural and historical heritage which, as if calling for the engagement of the Croatian audiovisual industry, we must be aware that the Croatian economic space is not so strong that the Croatian audiovisual industry can rely solely on it. THE Croatian market is not big enough and strong enough for the Croatian audiovisual industry to rely solely on it and to include some public resources in this sense in order for the industry to survive and develop according to its capabilities and creative potentials. In particular, in this case, if we talk only about Croatian broadcasting, then we can see what a huge capacity is at the disposition for the development of the Croatian audiovisual industry, especially independent productions, which wherever we turn in the European space have a very strong basis for public television services such as our Croatian broadcasting. When we look at today's HRT production level and if you want quality, then we certainly can't be satisfied. Croatian broadcasting today has been forced to compete with the so-called The commercial systems in the audiovisual industry are competing in something that's been lost in advance. The competition in the purchase of commercial programs is not actually the work of Croatian television, public, radio service such as HRT is larger this area is turned completely to the other side. Namely, the domestic production in terms of Croatian broadcasting but then other independent conditional terms, but commercial TV stations in the Republic of Croatia, is extremely weak, it is dictated on one side by economic reasons or by a lack of financial resources and a tight market, but certainly on the other hand, and completely incomprehensible programming orientations. Not only that, but even the fulfilment of those minimum laws of the prescribed obligations entered into by everyone's concession contracts. And not only that, and the existing regulation defines the issue of singleing out a certain portion of revenues to the national for the needs of the national programme. When we talk about the national programme, we think about the national programme for promoting audiovisual creation, because commercial television and Croatian television do not regularly pay their share, so already, according to the existing regulations, it is a question of the real Croatian audiovisual centre. So the existing capacities are completely unused in the part where HRTV has a great tradition and great opportunities from staff, technical and technical, are actually talking about domestic drama, domestic film, domestic documentary, domestic children's programme. It is a space where it is necessary to seek the affirmation of Croatian broadcasting public service and where the best effect can be achieved in the engagement of domestic production and creative therefore artistic capacities in the Croatian audiovisual space or industry. So it's also about writers, it's about directors, it's about actors, it's about a whole series of professions and professional professions that are currently exposed to markets that are very weak and that fail to engage their capacity. On the other hand, it should also be said that the strategic goal and interest of the Republic of Croatia is that, as a country that will long be the only EU member in Southeast Europe, it is to take advantage of its political geographical position and use the fact that the Croatian language understands this moment just over 20 million in the region. Therefore, it is Croatian interest for HRTV to assist the entire audiovisual industry sector in the Republic of Croatia to achieve a concrete cultural and then indirectly political impact on the entire region. That's what we're supposed to do. Because the quality inherited by the tradition we have guaranteed a certain bianco trust in what the Croatian audiovisual industry is able to produce, and on the other hand, we are expected to have our Croatian broadcasting service also be the transmission of information that can be used by the entire region. This means stabilising political space, which means stabilising the security situation, but it also means an interactive relationship between all countries in the field of cultural production and audiovisual industry. In this sense, better resolving the legal framework that will allow all capacities of the Croatian audiovisual industry to be engaged is more than welcome. It is indeed in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is as much in our interest as it will be ensured not only to free creative energy but also to have a synergy effect in co-productions with producers or creative productions from neighbouring countries, from countries with which we share a part of the common history, part of the common cultural heritage from countries in which the Croatian national minority lives, from countries where the native peoples of our national minorities live. So it's a space that is then automatically transformed into a large market into a large space of cultural and intensive cultural communication. And that is why I dare say one of the most important strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia when it is talking about its regional position and its role as the leader of the region in the process of joining European integration specifically by joining the EU. In this sense, we need to listen to what people from the Croatian audiovisual industry say, people from experience, people who have concrete, good, quality and internationally certified effects. And these amendments and additions of the law should not be considered as final. It should open dialogue space and continue public debate to define those elements of the future legal framework that may not be sufficiently elaborated at this time or not well worked out, but the Croatian Parliament must always give new solutions a chance. The same way that the European Parliament gives space to continuous improvements through the European directives of the existing EU legal framework. I think that the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian Parliament behind HRTV is as the key largest service from which many who are engaged in Croatian audiovisual activities, i.e. which are very large actors in the industry. It should also be said that the capacities of the Croatian audiovisual industry in the export of their own product are also high. We must understand that the audiovisual industry in Croatia is able to be a great exporter about one part of the tourism industry. We must understand that this will also improve some economic elements of the development of certain areas. It should not be particularly stressed that the works we consider to be a Croatian audiovisual product but also by engagement and industry in the production of co-productions and in international frameworks are mostly recorded in the low season outside major urban centres, and this is another chance for our economic, tourism and similar capacities to be put into operation, i.e. to be further promoted through such a type of activity. In this respect, the HNS and HSU club supports the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Audiovisual Activities, noting that this process of adapting the legal framework must be sustainable and dynamic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77513	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Ms. Suncana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We heard from the presentation of counterpart Beus something about the audiovisual sector, so I will just continue a few words and say that the audiovisual sector in the EU plays an undisputed economic, social and cultural role. He directly employs more than a million people and is one of the few sectors of the economy that has continued to grow. As far as Croatia is concerned, Croatia has a decades-old tradition of audiovisual art and its enriching, promotion and preservation is one of the priorities of Croatian cultural policy and the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Audiovisual Activities, which we will also support in the HDZ Club. Audiovisual activities since 2007 when the law came into force have been under brand new circumstances not only in Croatia, but this is the case in a number of countries in our environment, and many European countries have introduced measures to invest in the production of audiovisual works as cultural products, with the aim of promoting the development of creative industries and of course the promotion of the employment of professionals in audiovisual activities. It was equally demonstrated that the provisions of the applicable law were implemented with some difficulties, and this was particularly true of the provisions of some articles of the laws governing the sources of funding for the National Programme for Audiovisual Creation. In the proposed amendments to the Law, it was taken into account that amendments to certain provisions would not impose any new obligation but merely specify the way in which the obligations already established were settled. that contributions to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre are paid directly by the basis of the law, not by the basis of the contract as it has been so far. Also in practice, the need to introduce a definition of audiovisual work, a low budget and a difficult or demanding audiovisual work that has not been regulated by the law so far, which is particularly important in order to apply the relevant European recommendations governing state support for the audiovisual sector. Furthermore, the applicable law does not regulate the criminal liability for certain cases of infringement of the provisions of the law, in particular in the section relating to the categorisation of audiovisual works for the protection of children and young people, and in this respect it was necessary to regulate the infringement provisions. The Ministry of Culture made up a working group consisting of representatives of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Croatian Television, the Council of the Croatian Communications Agency, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, RTL, Nova, the NUT of the National Association of Television, the Croatian Association of Producers, Croatian Film Workers' Society, Croatian Film Directors' Association, Croatian Independent Television Producers' Association, the group of cinematographers at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Association for Telecommunications at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Why do I state all of this, for the simple reason to see how wide it has been covered to get as concrete and as high-quality proposals as possible that have been tabled in these amendments. The task force also agreed on much of the text that is here today and before us. As for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government believes that in the realisation of the Economic Recovery Programme, a major role and an important contribution can be made by creative industries and, in particular, audiovisual activities in what we call the country's economic recovery. It is also important in the context of the National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation, which includes our cultural past, our present, and we will say, of course, our future. However, the objectives are also defined, provided legal financial inflows to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, secured investment-enhancing systems and the promotion of stronger exports of film services, and above all safe flow of funds and enabling the realisation of strategic objectives on the maintenance and development of production, distribution, the display of culturally more valuable audiovisual works, the dissemination of film and general audiovisual culture and specific knowledge related to audiovisual creation, the preservation of audiovisual heritage, the promotion of investment in domestic film, the domestic film industry. I'll be back in the past for a little while, for example, from 1960 to 1990. Croatia had an annual income of about $70m from international productions and 145 feature films and series were recorded during that period. Of course, a large number of film workers and artists, as well as other workers, were employed in this context. All of them have thus acquired extraordinary expertise, which is today an irreplaceable capital and the basis on which Croatian film production rests. What does Croatia offer today? Croatia today offers excellence and accessibility in all fields of audiovisual production. In addition to professional staff, Croatia has some special features. We have locations with which few countries in Europe can be measured, a variety of climates, climate conditions and good road connections of all parts of Croatia have great advantages and economic potential for each foreign film crew. So Croatia offers us to move the entire production camp or drive however you like, from continental to coastal, Mediterranean location, which brings major production savings. Many requests for filmmaking in our country come from many production houses and film studios but always because of the lack of measures to encourage production, they move to the surrounding countries that have introduced these encouraging measures and benefit greatly from them. We want to change it and Croatia can change it. The average European medium-term film stands between 6m and 10m euros, is recorded for about 50 and 60 days and employs between 150 and 200 members of the technical team. If we add these figures and the necessary artistic and production workers, we also add the statisticians, as well as the necessary staff who care about safety and the necessary staff in pre-production and post-production, we get about 1000 persons employed, and any more complex film can be employed by more people. So here we are talking about new employment. From this example, it is clear that only a few international projects would have an annual impact on the employment and ability to generate revenue to a larger number of our citizens, or those involved in filmmaking. By reviving foreign investment in the Croatian audiovisual sector, the adoption of a complete system of measures and incentives for foreign producers will also bring multiple economic benefits. Of course, in all this we want further affirmation of Croatian economic, cultural and tourism potentials. This will achieve the goal of strengthening and developing the audiovisual industry. Frank Capra, a film director, once said, "Intuition is creativity that tries to tell us something," and we can say that this law wants intuition to be as much as possible. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77515	Thank you. I was just thinking if I should say hello specifically, I'm very fond of it, but I have to refrain. An individual debate. Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. The Law on Audiovisual Activities adopted in 2007 did not change here until these amendments and additions, and now, because of the need for international cooperation practices, it is necessary to amend and supplement certain provisions of this law more effectively and more effectively. This law amends Article 3 which defines the audiovisual activity itself, the cultural product itself, the hard or demanding audiovisual work, the audiovisual work of the low budget, the complementary activities, the Croatian film and the producer. The difficulty in applying was, in particular, the non-defining of the audiovisual part of the low budget and the heavy or demanding audiovisual work. In Article 3 of its last sentence, when defining the meaning of certain concepts such as author, author's work, audiovisual work, etc. Special laws were taken into account in order to achieve legal certainty and to avoid arbitrary definition of concepts. This proposal also amends Article 5 of the amendment in such a way as to tax the activities, i.e. the competence of the Croatian Audio-Visual Centre, which is important because of the obligation to implement measures to encourage investment in the production of audiovisual works as cultural products. In addition, Article 21(2) provides for activities, i.e. functions not to be performed by an artistic adviser, and therefore all for the purpose of avoiding conflict of interest. In addition, Article 36 is amended in a way that prescribes the way, i.e. sources of funding of the national programme, and the obligation of the operator of the cinema viewer, the operator of public communications networks, and other media service providers to pay certain funds in favour of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and the means of payment of funds. Furthermore, Articles 7, 8 and 9 of the amendments and additions are also laid down in Article 38 of the Rules on how the measures to invest in the production of audiovisual works are regulated by this Act, and it is particularly important to regulate international cooperation, the development of international film cooperation and international co-productions, and thus fostering the international promotion of the Republic of Croatia. Article 40 provides for infringements in the event of infringement of the rules prescribed by this Act, and I will look at myself briefly. This is where we got two amendments from the Information Committee. And I want to say that I think these amendments are good and I personally support them and it seems to me that, I'm sure these amendments will improve further. In any case, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77517	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77518	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I particularly welcome in this Law a quite precise definition of the audio-visual part of the low budget which will be able to seek state support. I'm reading that even these little animations in a bottle that, say, teenagers are already doing so well theoretically could also be combined with support. But let's joke aside. The fact is that some small films placed on Youtube are true pearls of art, promoters of Croatian culture and cultural identity and have had millions on Youtube and even tens of millions of approaches to hits. Let's remember these cellist artists of ours who've been real for weeks I say cultural event on Youtube. I therefore indeed welcome this way of addressing these unresolved problems so far in line with practice in the European Union. And I would just like to underline the fact that certain additions to the Law on Intellectual Property, or copyright, may also be necessary. Because these little offices are so easily copied that they fit on these memory stickes by breaking indiscriminately all copyrights and actually destroying the dignity of the author and the entire profession that way. So this is one law that needs to be supported anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77519	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77520	Thank you. Your colleague Franić is quite right when you talk about the importance of Youtube and the ability for all creative people to express themselves through it etc. And that part should be supported. I would only see it, although this Law does not regulate my own wonder and also the dissatisfaction that no national frequency has received any local television in Croatia. It's all from Zagreb, and that's not good. There was only one local television that asked for it. It's K5 from Split. They didn't get it. As youtube is the possibility of individuals expressing themselves I think this local level would also contribute only to wealth in this audiovisual space.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77521	Final review, Minister Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77522	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for your support for this bill. I thank all those involved in the making of the law and who participated in the public debate. I especially thank the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, which has been involved in the preparation of the law, which has already launched the promotion of incentive measures at the Cannes Festival so that these legal provisions can be interpreted and brought to life through new investments as soon as possible. Finally, the government accepts both amendments to the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77523	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77524	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Audiovisual Activities, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 863. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 160. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Audiovisual Activities. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 111 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77525	We will now move to the next point, the same from this portfolio - The final proposal of the Law Foundation "Cultura Nova" is proposed by the Government. The second is reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Science, Culture and Education. You received the reports at the session. Culture Minister Jasen Mesic will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77526	Mr. Vice President, so let us know if you can tell us which order we're going to take. Which we can expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77527	Sure, sure, I'll tell you. So I wouldn't tell you. Now we're gonna do it and then we're gonna go back to point 8. Proposal for a Air Protection Act
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77528	And after that?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77529	After that, we'll go to point 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Raising and Education in Primary and High School, and then we will return to point 15. Final proposal of the Household Act. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77530	And what about the public procurement and all that?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77531	It's not the board yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77532	Public procurement?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77533	Public procurement will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77534	All right, so tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77535	Maybe if the report arrives yet. So you see how the thing is very dynamic and virtually dynamic. Let's go to the Nova Culture. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77536	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Here is a second reading of the Law establishing the Culture Nova Foundation. In Croatia, in the past decade, the civil and cultural sectors have been profiled as a significant factor of new values in the field of culture, although the tradition of this part of cultural action exists and much more than that. The new models of networking and the establishment of independent institutions operating at international level as well as the number and diversity of tactile organisations on the cultural scene were among the more developed in Europe. In some areas of an independent cultural scene such as Contemporary dance civil sector is the only bearer of actually these artistic practices in the cultural life of the Republic of Croatia. How many of our artists are identified on the European cultural scene and the great support they receive from European institutions and foundations. Both follow the trend of increased funding from public sources as well as elsewhere in Europe, but budget savings felt much more at the sector of an independent cultural scene than in public institutions. That is why the name of the extra-institutional cultural scene has been embellished. In this regard, it is right to say that the civil cultural sector is in an unequal position, and the reform of the existing cultural model that has begun will take some time to ensure adequate funding within the existing models. In Croatia, this problem is particularly felt in major cities that have opened up space for an independent cultural sector during the period of their budgets, and now, under crisis conditions, are rapidly reducing funds without or without the possibility of a different redistribution of funds. In this respect, the law provides for the establishment of the Culture Nova Foundation, which will provide professional and financial support to civil society organisations and programmes in the area of contemporary culture and art, will significantly contribute to the stabilisation of an independent cultural scene and create preconditions for systematic support. This does not mean that by introducing a foundation, it should in any way reduce traditional funding methods, primarily through competitions for public needs in culture, but rather try to keep them at the same level. The proposal for the law itself came from a multi-annual civil initiative of organizations in culture, and the purpose and objectives of the foundation were publicly presented and discussed on several occasions. I must also say that the establishment of the Culture Nova Foundation is also foreseen by the 2009-2013 National Youth Programme, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2009. In order to achieve its purpose, the Foundation will provide professional and financial assistance to civil society organisations and programmes in culture that promote the development of production and organisational capacities, raise the level of professional action, promote the establishment of cross-sectoral cooperation and promote programme networking and cooperation at national and international level. In addition, I would like to say that the Foundation will support a whole series of those who will succeed in obtaining funds from European funds and thus adequately provide them with the part of the financial participation needed for this. So it can be expected that the Culture Nova Foundation will contribute absolutely to the development of an independent cultural sector in the Republic of Croatia through its financing activities and through partnership with similar foreign foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77537	Thank you. Legislative committees, culture science and education? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Bozo Biskupić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The very reasoning of this law, at the very beginning, states that in the Republic of Croatia over the past decade, civil society organisations operating in the area of contemporary culture and art, as the minister has already pointed out, have been profiled as a significant factor of newer values in the field of culture. This is certainly true, although it should be said that the tradition of the existence of an independent sector in culture is much longer and that some valuable examples from earlier periods, before the 1990s confirm that despite the system which was not in favour of the extra-institutional sector, the sector in culture still existed and continued to develop. However, in the mid-1990s and especially in the last 10 years, the activity of an independent cultural scene has gained a new dimension. Many associations, art organisations often operate in traditional artistic areas but open and discover new interdisciplinary areas and areas of multimedia activity. The achievements so far have also been recognised at the European cultural level and have been significantly financially supported and... international institutions and foundations as well as foundations. They are also recognized by domestic media and the general public and are therefore more systematicly funded than the state and local administration, but also within a cultural model that gives a distinct advantage to public cultural institutions. Councils for new media cultures have been established, both in the Ministry of Culture and in major cities, however, the status of these initiatives remains unresolved compared to highly subsidized public institutions. In times of crisis, when savings occur in the first row of the programme financing part, there remains an unresolved issue of structural support for the regular financing of such independent projects. It should be pointed out that because of the absence of the founders of the contract on the work of the wage system and the other costs of artistic production within the independent sector are much lower than the public sector, but the irregularity and uncertainty in financing has led to the absence of further growth and the survival of existing initiatives on serious trials. Clearly, it is necessary to ensure the improvement of the position of civil society organisations within the existing model and, therefore, the final proposal for a law in the Culture Foundation provides for a new foundation to provide professional and financial support to civil society programmes in the area of contemporary culture and art. It is also clear that this foundation will not be able to solve many of the problems of the independent sector but also when it functions in the way provided for by this law will certainly play an important role in providing adequate structural and institutional support. I think it is necessary to point out clearly that this model should not in any way replace all that the resolution ministries and local self-government are doing in order to ensure programme support, but through the establishment of the foundation, support should be provided to enable the further development of the independent sector. Such support is important for the sector to be able to further withdraw funds from the European Union as well as other international funds that have worked extremely successfully so far. The Fund should support cooperation and networking of an independent scene but also encourage cross-sectoral cooperation as well as infrastructure projects, it is not realistic to expect that the budget of the foundation will be large enough to finance more significant infrastructure investments but may appear as grand stability, actively promote investment in the outside of the institutional sector, invest in education in order for the project holder to be better educated and prepared for withdrawal of funds. As regards the text of the law itself, we are of the opinion that the proposed definition actually united what I was talking about earlier and that the precise and clear purpose of the foundation is defined as promoting civil society in the Republic of Croatia in the area of contemporary culture and art. I would stress that we are giving full support to the description and definition of the programme as stated in the law itself, and here I think first of all to encourage the development of production and organisational capacities of the programme's holder to raise the level of professional action through informal education and professional training. To encourage the establishment of cross-sectoral cooperation, to improve programme networking and cooperation at national, regional and of course regional level. Encouraging artistic creation and cultural action of young people and encouraging other programmes aimed at achieving the purpose of the foundation. The manner in which the regulated bodies of the foundation should ensure an adequate level of independence and operationality of the trust authorities, as well as ensuring adequate supervision of the work and spending of the funds. The institution of a public invitation to propose board members should ensure that representatives of civil society organisations in culture and prominent public figures are appointed to the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the underlying assets governed by the law of 100 thousand kuna, the financing of a trust in part of the income, gambling and in accordance with the Regulation on criteria for the determination of users and how to distribute part of the income from gambling and from basic assets, income from fixed assets, donations and other incomes in accordance with the law is arranged. We note that the model of funding for the culture of gambling funds has so far provided significant resources for the civil sector in culture, so we expect that this foundation, such as some other foundations, which were mentioned in the stands where the entire initiative is presented, will provide additional funding by linking itself with gender foundations and foundations, which could ensure a synergy effect and ensure better funding. This is a good law, and I would like to say in the end that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the proposed law because we are convinced that the adoption of the proposed law and the establishment of the foundation will improve the position of civil society organisations operating in the area of contemporary culture and art as a significant generator of new cultural values in the Republic of Croatia, and provide professional and financial support to civil society programmes in culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77539	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77540	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support the bill that enables the establishment of the Culture New Foundation, whose main objectives are presented not only by the material that follows this Law but by the Minister of Culture in its opening presentation. It's supposed to say that space is what it's called. The independent, contemporary culture of art is mostly an uninstitutionalized space, and that is why, and in the very nature of contemporary and independent cultural production and art is deinstitutionalisation or not institutionalisation, so far a whole series of cultural creators have faced great problems in the fact that their work is properly valorised, to be monitored and to enable their cultural production. In this regard, the idea of establishing a trust through which such programmes will be financed so far, so that the problems identified in the financing system of this segment of cultural creation are reduced, and so that the financing system improves is a welcome idea. Especially because it relies on a model that already exists, which is the Civil Society Development Foundation, which in its establishment in 2003 has actually given a model of view based on which a lot of what is happening in the civil sector can be closely monitored, funded, evaluated. This is a simple law, because the story of the establishment and functioning of the foundation and must not be complicated, must not be very demanding because it is a place where there should not be much administration but a very high level of willingness to accept contemporary cultural creation and to open it to the space of affirmation because for decades for various reasons this space has been narrowed down, misunderstood in some situations entirely because of its deinstitutionalization and neglected. What seems to me not well enough solved, i.e. that it is not a very comfortable framework is the amount of the underlying assets of the foundation that has been proposed here and defined on 100 thousand kunas that will be set aside by the Ministry of Culture from the budget for this year because the establishment of a foundation that will not yet have its original income is certainly one administrative organisationally demanding task, and it will require a different, more responsible but also more comprehensive approach because establishing a foundation is not just an administrative job, it is not just papers, it is therefore also about the engagement of concrete but quality people who will allow the foundation to function in full terms of the following year. Some in the NGO sector, with approval, welcome the provision of this law, which defines that the original income of the foundation will be a certain percentage of the revenues generated from gambling because it has already shared several sectors in civil society from those dealing with preventions of unacceptable behaviour, persons with disabilities, development of working with children, working with young people, as well as technical cultures, so there is also a whole series of sectors which already depend on the funds collected from gambling. So the definition of another user in the form of this trust will not be an increase in these funds but rather a real reduction. I hope that in this context the state will show a higher level of responsibility and that it will develop a system in which the granting of social philanthropy will therefore be encouraged, aimed at culture and that the existing legal conditions that stimulate donations in culture will be further improved, because, on the one hand, the current economic situation on the other hand, the lack of tradition in this kind of voluntary contributions, donations, sponsorships affect that big progress cannot be expected at once and that no large inflow of funds can be expected in the first years of the foundation's work. But what I would certainly like to see is that this foundation, as much as tomorrow, is funded by artistic performances in which some new conceptual artists like today, one of the biggest artists in Croatia, Sinisha Labrović, will challenge the boxing duel of the culture minister. I would like to see the foundation finance this kind of artistic creation, that kind of performance, and only when it happens regardless of whether someone is going to challenge Minister Mesic or another minister of the future, will we actually know that the foundation has fulfilled the purpose of its existence. In that sense, I repeat once again, the HNS and HSU clubs will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77541	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Bozo Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to say that these are two programs and last year, at the end and this year, Sinishi Labrović was funded. Therefore, its value has been recognised.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77543	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it away. Now it's the honorary representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Culture Nova Foundation will first of all help develop the creative scene that we used to call new media cultures in the media space when it appeared, and it was more than 10 years ago. The operation of the foundation will be directed towards financial and professional assistance. But I sincerely hope that it becomes an excuse for some. Why am I saying that? Because establishing a foundation will also contribute to decentralisation of decision-making. Unfortunately, I'm going to set a bad example, I don't like it because it's coming from my town. We rarely witness, for example, that when budget cuts are made, and in particular I am talking about the levels of counties, cities or municipalities first cutting funds intended for culture or if you want an example of this kind of fear. The town of Čakovec, where we have only one monument of the zeroth category, has been singled out exactly zero kuna for that monument. You can imagine how much a young creator, a young artist who comes with so-called. The new media scene has received any support from such funds, therefore, if the monument of culture has not earned any kuna. I sincerely hope that there will be no such cases, and I sincerely hope that those young people who work in cities and counties will give more opportunities to those who express themselves differently, and that is different in a creative way. A few more examples of why new media cultures deserve our attention. According to established criteria for the evaluation of the programme, members of the Cultural Council for New Media Cultures have also defined the proposal for the 2011 programme and 247 programmes have been reported. Why do I mention the number? Because it's for 100% more than, for example, in 2010 where 135 programmes were co-financed. Of course, the foundation itself will not solve all the problems, but there will be a new format if we can call it that and at any moment it will be able to react precisely to the problems of the segment that it is intended for. It also, in order to avoid confusion, will not stop public funding for modern and independent cultural production but will be plus existing sources of funding. There were also words here that might not be enough funds, but the funds are as they are, but there's a great chance of finding funds through a trust fund in so-called. Partnership relations with similar foundations that exist in the region and I think that we will see the result of what will contribute to financing other than the projected financial resources, so lottery funds and what we have already heard. In accordance with all of this and of course with as many young creators as possible on our cultural scene, I will support law-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77545	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77546	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Culture Nova Foundation, second reading, P.Z. No. 794. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Culture Nova Foundation. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 106 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77547	We move to point 8, that's - Proposal for a law on air protection, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 852 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nikola Ružinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. We have before us here, or before you, a draft air protection law that goes into regular procedure because we believe that the matter handled by this law is extremely important and that two readings need to be made through the parliamentary procedure and accept proposals and remarks that will be in line with what we have to cover this law. So today, the 2004 law is in force, on air protection with additions from 2008. However, in 2008, however, the European Union continued to adopt a number of new laws covering the area of air protection and, in particular, climate change, so that we decided to go into the new law, not to amend and supplement, because changes are too large and too extensive. In 2008, the European Union passed a law or directive on the quality of surrounding air and on cleaner air, so this is the part that covers the quality of air in the environment. This law that is before you is practically made up of two, so to speak, an integrated whole. One is connected to this very quality of air, and the other is related to the protection of climate and ozone envelopes. As regards climate protection, this is one of the most important new issues within the European Union that is given special attention because the European Union is one of the leading groups of countries in the global climate protection movement within the United Nations and gives exceptional importance to new regulations, new directives and new ways of combating climate change. This law creates an opportunity to adopt as many as 28 regulations and directives recently adopted within the European Union over the past few years so that the matter here is extremely large and new. So I'm going back to the air quality, so the air quality that's covered here basically refers to the classification of the area in the agglomeration zone and the classification according to the levels of pollutants in the air. Here they are prescribed specifically for certain substances that characterise air quality and based on these specified substances such as sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides, floating particles extremely significant and lead, benzene, carbon monoxide and ground-floor ozone, for example, as one of the significant characteristics of air quality. They all have their restrictive concentrations allowed to be given in particular in the Borders Regulation and therefore a decision on air quality is made. Unlike the current or current law, there are only two categories of air in the new proposal in accordance with European directives, so first and second. The first category is air which is of correct quality or slightly polluted, and the second category is when it exceeds certain limit values. In this respect, quality is determined not in general but for each of the individual air quality ingredients. The second part of the law is related to the protection of the ozone layer, so what is covered by the Montreal Protocol and in that part is given authority to the Government to clearly through the Resolute Ministry to bring measures and regulations that are related to the deadlines to which substances that damage the ozone layer, the ozone layer, may be used. That's what they're called. Freoni. And they are also defined by this law and obligations in front of legal and physical persons, craftsmen for the operation of service operations, therefore extremely strict service regulations so as not to blow these freons up. It's also the certification of persons handling these substances. However, a more significant part of this law is tied up as I have said in the area of climate change where the emission trading system is introduced according to the latest provisions of the Directive within the European Union, consistent clearly with all those programmes that go through the United Nations where it is spoken about how emissions from energy will be traded, including industries such as refineries, cokers, the use of energy in metal, cement, paper, ceramic, etc. the industry that contributes to the most greenhouse gas emissions. So all of these sectors where energy is produced, so where fossil fuels are used, we have a emission trading system. This has been introduced into the European Union since 2013, and a system of aviation emissions trading has been introduced since 2014. All this quota, so the Republic of Croatia, by entering the European Union, enters the quota system set at European Union level, which is less than 21% for this trading system as compared to what we had in 2005. In doing so, those plants that produce electricity are going to buy emissions through auctions. Therefore, for the production of electricity, emissions will have to be bought at auction while this other part that is related to industrial plants emissions will be allocated free of charge to the same quotas. Clearly not without any conditions, but the industry will have to have the best technologies. So they have so-called. Benchmarks or limit values, so let's say in the cement industry the limit value of 766 kg of CO2 per tonne of the klinker produced so that these are all that above these limit values will also have to be bought by industry. So, they're in the interest of having the best available techniques. The basic system of emissions trading is that it will be traded at auction, will be traded within the European Union and Croatia will not trade within its own country, but we will be part of that entire system. We'll just have to keep all the data that's related to that trade. For that part of the greenhouse gas emissions coming from the so-called. ... The system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, outside the trading system. So, those emissions that aren't in energy production. So, from agriculture, waste management from transport specifically. These are emissions that actually make up most of the shows in the Republic of Croatia today. They remain at the level of the Republic of Croatia with the need to monitor these emissions. And we're allowed a total of negotiations we agreed that these emissions could increase by 11% by 2020. So this is Croatia's specific position in terms of economy and conditions, GDP etc. Some other countries that are at the second stage of development must even reduce these emissions by up to 20 percent. What is important with us is that we reduce the amount of fuel we put on the fossil fuel market by 6% by 2020. It may also be important to say that the emissions trading system, so what we have said from energy from electricity production auctions is taking place within the European Union, is being organised. However, the revenues made by our companies that will buy do not go to the European Union, but they come to Croatia. It will be paid to the Special Account of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and will be used exclusively and especially for the deterioration of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, clean production and all that can contribute to the reduction of emissions throughout the system, adaptation to climate change, so that the Government can give funds to other sectors as well. Therefore, not only in the electricity industry, or the production of electricity, but also in other sectors to improve the system. Here are the short contents of this law which, as I said, will eventually experience some changes after the debate. Then we'll give it up for final reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77549	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Environmental Protection Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77550	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have an extremely important bill of law before us because without water, we can spend a few days without food for a few days, and without air, we're certainly dead in a few minutes. Croatia has a long tradition regarding air and air protection activities. We're rich in forests. And so far, we're even producing more oxygen than we're releasing greenhouse gases, and that's how we need to stay. This proposal for a law that is before us is extremely good that it goes in two readings precisely because it respects the voice of the profession as said by the honored Mr. Secretary of State and it is extremely good that in the public debate the vast majority of the Croatian Air Protection Association's objections as a professional organisation dealing with the topic. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Joined Resources Center, i.e. the European Commission's Directorate-General for Science, paid great attention in its European Economic Development Strategy from 2010 to 2020 to this segment of the development of a low greenhouse gas economy in the atmosphere and, of course, to the control of these trends and emissions. I believe that this Law, after the second reading, provides a well-quality basis for us to be coherent with this European Union strategy, which provides for a great role of science, expertise and expertise in these processes. And it is a very good solution that this bill gives great importance to the profession and in these processes related to monitoring, control and testing, measurement, monitoring, climate change and, of course, air quality. In general, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a very reasonable and quality approach related to environmental and health protection, with monitoring. Therefore, because most of such activities have been entrusted to scientific institutions, and it is known that scientists give these processes added value because they do not have that binary approach to monitoring, harmfully, is not harmful, and above the allowed limit, below the allowed limit, is not allowed. Scientists always want real numbers, real numbers with measured uncertainty. They want to obtain validated data from which it is possible to predict certain trends and predictive models so as to model future events and environmental impacts. Of course, such an approach is also appropriate for countries that are the size of the Republic of Croatia and which do not have the resources to waste, but that all capacities must be exploited, and thus scientists must contribute to the expertise, knowledge, skills that contribute to the overall improvement of society, not only to scientific work. And here, essentially in this law, speaking about this first part of air quality, we have a situation that essentially intertwines the interests and responsibilities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but also the Ministry of Health in assessing certain effects, health effects on the population, which is unusually important for example in testing the concentration of floating particles in the air for which it has long been established to cause increased mortality at certain concentrations. And it is no wonder that in the Republic of Croatia, which is the author of the public health doctrine as perhaps the most spectacular export product of all time, and in which great attention is paid to just assessing the risks of environmental pollution, there is also great attention to this segment. Article 27 of the Law provides that the work of the State Air Quality Monitoring Network and the construction of new stations shall be provided by the State Hydrometeorological Institute, which is, in the context of the Ministry Act and by the authorities of the State Administration, also the competent authority for the implementation of such activities. However, as I said, and since Croatia is a small country, the State Hydrometeorological Institute is like some other state institutions, the State Bureau of Measurement, the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, along with its administrative part and works and part of the profession. So so is the State Hydrometeorological Institute in terms of the Law on Science and Scientific Institution in which scientific projects are conducted related to hydrometeorology. However, these two functions of the State Hydrometeorological Institute are intertwined here because the State Hydrometeorological Institute also has certain laboratories dealing with the profession for the last 150 years, which makes it one of the longest institutions in the Republic of Croatia that continuously carry out certain measurement and testing activities. As this law, as well as previous laws and regulations, provides for laboratories dealing with air quality testing to be accredited, this can be indirectly concluded from Article 54 or some other articles, that this laboratory of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, if it is engaged and trained, will also have to pass through the accreditation process with the National Accreditation Authority in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croatian Accreditation Agency. Otherwise, it would mean that the State Hydrometeorological Institute, except for the roof organisation that manages the network, which is good, because the network must have one master to know who, what, when, where and why it works, but otherwise, if the State hydrometeorological institution within the meaning of this law is also assigned certain professional posts, would be a direct violation of freedom of movement of goods and services, or already closed criteria, that would be a violation of competition. So, in fact, the already closed standards and accepted acquis of the EU would be violated. What could even compromise this unstoppable process of joining the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership in the monitoring process. So in this context, I hope that even these little inaccuracies, although I say from the law itself, can be read from some articles that accreditation is also needed for a state hydrometeorological institution in that segment of the profession, but when a little expression is said to be strengthened, it improves to prevent any connotations, think etc., the law was really perfect. In fact, many of the private institutions involved, private laboratories dealing with air quality testing, have, of course, had to go through this set of long, complex and not easy accreditation processes, and somehow look at the possibility that now that they've done it all, they've got someone just taking a job like this. On the other hand, the fact is that the state hydrometeorological institution does not have a tradition related to only the examination of air quality and therefore it was extremely good to hear the director of DHMZ that he needs institutions that have this tradition of knowledge, skills and published scientific works, and in this segment of research and monitoring of air quality. Unfortunately, because of the complicated and prevailing public procurement system, we have a situation that we have no valid data in the last two years for some measurement stations but it is not the fault of the DHMZ but of our public procurement system that is too complicated and often bureaucraticly long so that even without sanctions for those institutions or organisations that appear in competitions without actually having all the references fulfilled. And in any case, this law should be supported with only more regret that, with regard to this segment of climate change, we have not accepted in the Assembly a solution that, for example, those forests that are catastrian or pasture, and in nature have not been legally allowed for decades to be translated more easily by cadastrian operators as forests because it is known that forests serve as... carbon dioxide and we have essentially lost one procedural chance to improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77551	Now it's the turn of Club HNS HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, At the very beginning, I will say that the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will support the proposal for a law on air protection in the first reading. This Proposal for a Law on Air Protection is in line with the acquis of the European Union. By adopting and in force of this Act, the Law on Air Protection from 2004 and the 2008 amendments and the Regulation on the authorisation or consent to carry out air quality monitoring activities and air monitoring from stationary sources of 2005 will be laid down. This Law sets out in the 160th article measures, how to organise, implement and monitor air quality protection and improvement, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in order to mitigate the effects of climate change. Gradual elimination of the consumption of ozone-damaging substances, the information system for air protection and administrative and inspection surveillance. During the three years following the entry into force of the amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, significant international contracts in the area of climate protection, greenhouse gas emissions and substances that damage the ozone layer that require significant changes to the law have been adopted. During the implementation of the air protection law and the implementing rules adopted on the basis of it, the need to remove certain existing inaccuracies and inaccuracies was observed in the law. Meanwhile, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a new directive on the quality of surrounding air and cleaner air for Europe, in addition to this, the European Parliament and the Council have adopted a new directive on industrial emissions replacing the existing IPC directive, which sets out obligations for large storage devices and facilities using volatile organic compounds, amendments to the Directive on the quality of liquid and oil fuels, terminals and petrol stations, and new directives in the field of climate protection and management of ozone-damaging things. In order to protect and improve the air quality of the ozone layer and mitigate the effects of climate change, the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and other regulations shall apply if, of course, this Act is not otherwise prescribed. Air protection against pollution caused by radioactive substances, technological accidents and natural disasters shall be governed by specific laws. This draft bill plans to set up reference laboratories whose work will be partially financed and the resources of the state budget and new funds need to be planned from 2012 onwards. Today, at a meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, we heard that there are some doubts in Article 27, so there are other readings, and as the proposing representatives say, these doubts will be resolved by the second reading. I'm going to make a small break from this law, but of course I'm not going to step away from the subject. It is clear to all of us that the air means life, so it protects the air from any kind of pollution. Each of us 20 thousand times inhale every day, bringing 12,000 gallons of air into our lungs and supplying oxygen necessary for life. Unfortunately, 90% of their time is spent in closed spaces where air quality is the worst. The air in closed spaces contains up to 20 million particles in one cubic metre. This level is 20 times higher than that found in the air at a dense traffic intersection and up to 200 thousand times higher than that in the sea air. The situation is getting worse in the winter or in the summer, that's what we're witnessing these days. Thus, it is generally known that polluted outdoor air can be dangerous to health but few people know that polluted air in closed spaces poses an even greater risk to their health. Almost half of all diseases have been caused or worsened by indoor air pollution. But I had the need to say these few sentences because, well, we've disturbed almost everyone with the mind of how important it is to stay in the clear air and as little as possible in places like this. And in the end, we go back to the very measure of this law. We at the HNS Club, HSU think it is more than good that a number of factors that respect the proposals of the professional association, the economy, the public, are included in the draft law, and the wide way is open for scientists whose tasks through scientific works and results are to activate and launch preventive measures that will improve the state of air cleanliness or at least keep it at satisfactory levels. Once again the HNS club, HSU will support this bill that we hold to be a good, quality and positive step in better and better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77553	Thank you very much. It is next to the HDZ Club of Honorable Representative Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. The basic legal document defining the policy and measures to protect and improve air quality, climate and ozone layer in the Republic of Croatia is the 2004 Air Protection Act adopted under the Environmental Protection Act and all known EU directives. In order to further bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis, the Croatian Parliament adopted in May 2008 the Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, which entered into force on 5 June 2008. The Air Protection Act has been amended and amended in that section relating to the harmonisation of provisions with the Environmental Protection Act adopted in the meantime in 2007 and a legal framework for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change is given. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted documents and implementing regulations on the importance of air protection and climate protection, thus completing the transfer of the EU acquis adopted by the end of 2007 to Croatian air quality management legislation, climate protection and ozone layer. Air pollution is a serious problem of the time in which we live and has a significant impact on human health, quality of life and a harmful impact on all environmental components. Emissions into the air of sulphuric and nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, heavy metals, floating particles of benzene, sulphurics, ammonias and other substances from various sources are the main source of these pollutants. It is known that the main sources of air pollution are the burning of fossil fuels for energy production, industrial processes, and traffic that is increasingly taking the lead on pollution in cities. A particular problem is the possibility of spreading and transportable pollution at large distances, which dislocates the consequences of the cause, and is often due to emissions from industrial areas, the collapse of the eco-system, some distant natural habitat. Air pollution does not know the state borders, and this area is one of those required and the highest level of international cooperation. Croatia is in the process of accession negotiations. By closing chapter 27. In December 2010, the environment has brought its legislation into line and thus air protection with the EU acquis adopted by 2008. Today, in the Republic of Croatia, the Air Protection Act and the air quality monitoring rules are carried out through the state air quality monitoring network, through local networks carried out by counties, cities and municipalities. At the same time, air pollutants must carry out air quality monitoring through special purpose stations. The Republic of Croatia is divided into areas or areas and 6 populated areas according to air quality categories. Air quality is today monitored in all agglomerations, and since 2010 and in all zones. Today, there are 146 measurement stations in the Republic of Croatia on which air quality is measured. Of which 35 automatic stations, 42 classic stations, and 69 stations that measure only the total storage. Data from 12 automatic stations of state networks are available to the public through web browsers on the website of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction while data from automatic measurement stations of local networks are available on the Internet stations of the Environment Protection Agency. The state network continues to develop and in 2010 it was launched into the work of new 12 measurement stations that monitor air quality in protected areas and due to cross-border air pollution. During three years from the date of entry into force of the amendments to the Law on Air Protection in the EU, significant legal documents have been adopted in the area of air protection, climate protection, ozone layer protection and the treatment of fluorinated greenhouse gases requiring significant changes to the existing law. Also on 27 April 2007, the Republic of Croatia ratified the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force on 28 August 2007. This draft law transposes the elements of the European Union Directive adopted after 5 June 2008 and will complete full harmonisation by adopting implementing rules. The draft law also creates a framework for the implementation of 28 regulations and decisions of the European Union relating in particular to the monitoring and reporting mechanism of greenhouse gas emissions in the Community, the establishment of auctions, the emission quotas of greenhouse gases necessary for the implementation of emissions trade in the Community, the establishment of a minimum contribution of the Member States of the European Union to meet the Community's obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the economic sectors, the economic activities which are considered to be a significant risk of carbon leakage, the list of aircraft operators and the determination of Member States for the administration of each aircraft operator, the treatment of substances that pollute the ozone layer, the treatment of florified greenhouse gas gas gas emissions, the verification of ozone layer and florinised compounds in stationary equipment for cooling, the air conditioning and fire-fighting systems, as well as the minimum systems for air-conditioning and air-conditioning systems. With this adoption of a new law, we are awaiting demanding systematic, institutional and organisational changes and investment in the best available techniques to meet the objectives set with regard to reducing and preventing adverse impacts on all environmental components and air quality. This Proposal for a Law on Air Protection specifically deals with the air quality system and the system of protection against climate change and the protection of ozone envelopes, which is particularly important for every citizen, so it is good to discuss it in detail and agree to the end with the profession in two readings. The Croatian Democratic Community club will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77555	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77556	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support this proposal of the Law on Air Protection which, although very complex and professional, is also difficult to understand for people like me who are not natural and mathematical professions, this is a very quality document, and it is good and that although European law will be discussed in two readings. Most of all, I was drawn to the provisions of the laws concerning climate change, given the fact that the fight against climate change and adaptation to climate change are the biggest challenge facing all countries in the world and so is the Republic of Croatia. I remind you that in 2012, the post Kyoto period begins, which means that Croatia will already participate in the trade in emissions, which will put new challenges before the Croatian economy, finding new ways to survive on the market. I recall that last year in Cancun, the Republic of Croatia refuted the final finding of the Kyoto Protocol Committee which decided that Croatia could not use a decision adopted at the 12th meeting of the Conference of Parties, a convention to implement obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. Croatian negotiators and negotiators argued that the adoption of the decision at the 12th meeting of the party conference was a prerequisite for ratification of the Kyoto Protocol in Croatia, so unless Croatia recognises an increase of 3.5 million tonnes of CO2 compared to the reference 1990s, Croatia will not be able to make commitments under the protocol. Croatia has filed an appeal for the final report, but the parties to the protocol did not agree on the Croatian appeal, so the resolution of the appeal issue has been extended for the next session of the Kyoto Protocol parties. Although Croatian Environmental Protection Associations are extremely dissatisfied with such a negotiating position because they believe that insisting on increasing emissions compared to the base year Croatia ranks in the group so-called. Evil polluters countries such as the US and Canada, the fact is that the already knock-out Croatian economy and the state as a whole will find themselves in very serious problems unless we recognize additional emissions on the reference year. This would mean paying according to current estimates between 50m and 100m euros per year due to the excess of emissions and the absolute inability to develop new industrial and non-renewable energy plants. Unfortunately, Croatia is classified as a group of developed countries of the world even though the 1990s reference year is because of the war, which due to investments in the thermal power plants in Bosnia and Serbia has had extremely small emissions. It should also be said that our '90s CO2 emissions are significantly lagging behind the average of European countries with which they should now be equated in terms of achieving an equal percentage of emission reductions. There is no doubt that the Kyoto Protocol has been unfairly set because it implies that almost equal responsibility for the current climate change must be borne by those developed and those undeveloped who, in addition today, feel the most devastating consequences of climate change caused by decades of irresponsible and arrogant behaviour of the rich countries of the world. It would be fair if the agreement were set up in a way to commit rich and developed, and these are also polluters countries to sell cheaply, subsidise the transfer of the latest modern technologies with low emission levels and to determine quotas by country on the basis of the number of inhabitants and the general development of the state. But since we can assume that this will not happen, Croatia is unfortunately required to comply with the provisions of all conventions and protocols governing this area. Croatia already has a regulation governing flexible Kyoto Protocol mechanisms, which are common implementation mechanisms, clean development mechanisms and emissions trade, but I do not think these mechanisms are in use at all. That is why I have also asked a written parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this subject and I have received a rather confusing answer showing that Croatia does not want to use the mechanisms of joint implementation with the reason that Croatia has too little emissions that by realising the "Joined implementation" of the mechanisms it leaves to other countries, but is ignoring the benefits for the environment of Croatia and the free raising of the standards of environmental protection in Croatia that Croatia would have through the realisation of these projects. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State to answer the question of how much the Ministry has issued for "clean development" or "joined implementation" projects outside Croatia with letters of support or letters of approval. I guess neither. I guess that's enough talking about the fact that there's something wrong with the system itself. I fear that Croatia is not at all ready in the political administrative and economic sense for the new situation that will arise in the beginning of emissions trading. Croatia does not have a strategy for economic development in Croatia, and especially the strategy in which the integrated situation is related to emissions trade, and this can be fatal to Croatia. I would warn that this law also shows a well-used practice that the Government imposes itself on it to carry out certain measures such as regulation and similar but not limited by time limits, and unlike the operators or industries to which it prescribes the exact deadlines. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. I warn them that the European Union has a deadline for this measure that expires in September of this year and until then we will not have a new law adopted, let alone a regulation that could mean that no industry will have the possibility of using free emissions. It is extremely important for industry to have clearly stated reasonable deadlines and obligations in order to adapt in a business context to the new situation. I didn't figure out who was gonna pay for those free shows, I guess. How much this will be a burden for future budgets, I don't think we know either. I will also look back at article 41, which can also be restrictive for new economic projects because it, as you also know, does not allow the realization of some projects in areas that have satisfactory air quality. Realising that the current global economic crisis is not only a monetary crisis but the beginning of a much more serious crisis of available natural resources on whose exploitation in terms of production of constantly new goods is based on the economic philosophy of the steady economic growth of many countries today talk about a green new agreement not only as a way of overcoming the current crisis but also as a transition to a completely new model of society, a model in which there will no longer be an economic paradigm based on the frantic globalised consumerism or the creation of an atmosphere in which general social but individual well-being is based on increasing production and increasing consumption of increasingly unsustainable and short-term goods. A green new agreement in economic terms manifests itself as an investment in energy efficiency projects, renewable energy choices, waste management systems and decarbonisation of the economy. In this context, I would like to stress that the article 120 on economic incentives uses the term that income tax exemptions and income taxes can be prescribed according to specific regulations, and I think that it should be considered that the inclusion of the word will be prescribed because this would also mean that we are committed in some way to the implementation of the new green agreement. So the green new deal means decentralisation, the opening of new jobs in the environmental industries. Resistance to industries that prolong harmful effects on the environment and human health, fossil fuels and nuclear energy. In the long term, Green New Deal implies abandoning the philosophy of constant economic growth and accepting the idea of so-called "the." Zero growth. For the time being, it seems to me that there is none of it in Croatia, and I would like to stress that the European Union and international conventions are telling us what to do, but they are not telling us how to do it and we can respect our obligations in a way that will be extremely unfavourable for Croatia and in a way that will stimulate other people's economies but we can also implement it in a way that will stimulate the domestic economy. I hope that in this way we will realise it and will soon pass the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, which is a basic prerequisite that renewable energy sources are more implemented in Croatia and that they are realised in a way that we can use as many domestic potentials as possible. It is also possible to make significant steps in terms of the use of biofuels because Croatia must not be able to achieve the 10% target of renewable energy in biofuels in transport by 2020 by mixing out-produced biodiesel, biogas or bioethanol or by producing biofuels in Croatia. Unfortunately, for now, we do not care, and this is not a wise way to prepare the country for the very climateological and economically insecure future of planet Earth. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77557	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77558	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In your discussion, you mentioned that the developed and undeveloped should implement the need to reduce both greenhouse gases and air protection in the same percentage. I mean, from the beginning, it's certainly not fair that you also mentioned and explained it. And I think that this is precisely why the issue of organising the supervision of this protection should be in this Law relating to origin, meaning the origin of whether it is organic or inorganic origin, or whether it is greenhouse gases and all that conditions that air protection should be carried out. What is certainly dangerous is related to these greenhouse gases and the dangers of agricultural production because certainly not the percentage of the country's development or development in the 1990s was the same in Croatia and everything that happened here in other countries and now the percentage of the reduction should be the same. The other thing is the issue of Croatia as a tourist country, so clean air should be one of the brands. In this particular area, we need to take more care of nature parks, quarrys and similar things that I'm not talking about right now. I therefore believe that this Law should be brought into line with the needs and opportunities that Croatia has in developing those productions of which we will have the most economic benefits and the preservation of tourist destinations and natural beauty as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77559	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77560	Well, it is hard to believe that Croatia as a small country and a small player on a global scale can do anything in terms of correction of international conventions, protocols and agreements, so it is crucial that we make documents and strategies to prepare for these circumstances which will be extremely difficult for both Croatia and many other countries in the world in economic terms. I don't have any big objections to this Law, I think the Law is good, and in the end it's not so much in the domain of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. The ministry can be a very important factor but it is in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a strategy of economic development that will respect these new circumstances and to define certain things in a completely new way. I'm afraid that in that sense we haven't done much, and it might soon cost us a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77561	Thank you very much. And Branko Box the esteemed representative in the individual debate as the last.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's to the fact that my colleague Holly gave her unreserved support to this law, and there's nothing left for me then, but also at the beginning, I'm going to say that I'm going to support this law. Thus, this law sets out measures, how to organise, implement and monitor air quality protection and improvement, reducing greenhouse gas emissions to mitigate the effects of climate change, the process of eliminating the consumption of ozone-damaging substances, the information system of air protection and administrative inspection. The 2004 Air Protection Act and the implementing rules adopted by this law require, inter alia, the adoption of planning documents at national, regional and local level, the reporting of air quality conditions in the Republic of Croatia, the location of stations and the air quality monitoring programme in the national air quality monitoring network, the method of monitoring air quality, the method of monitoring emissions from stationary sources of border, tolerance and critical values of air pollutants, requirements for products such as oil, biofuels, paints and varnishes, etc., the establishment and management of the air protection information system, inspection and administrative control and criminal provisions for non-compliance with the provisions of the laws and implementing rules. In order to further bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection in May 2008. The same law has therefore been amended and supplemented in the section relating to the harmonisation of provisions with the Environmental Protection Act and the legal framework for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change is given. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a series of documents and implementing rules, which have fully completed the transfer of the EU acquis, which was adopted by the end of 2007 to Croatian legislation, air quality management legislation, climate protection and ozone layer. Meanwhile, in 2008, the EU adopted Directive 2008/50 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on the quality of surrounding air and cleaner air for Europe, which EU Member States were obliged to transpose into their legislation by 11 June 2010. During the 3 years since the entry into force of the amendments to the Law on Air Protection in the EU, significant legal documents have been adopted in the area of climate protection, ozone layer protection and greenhouse gas treatment requiring amendments to the law. Also on 27 April 2007, the Republic of Croatia ratified the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which came into force in August 2007. This draft law transposes the elements of the EU Directive and will complete full harmonisation by adopting a series of implementing rules. Based on the draft Air Protection Act proposal, in order to fully comply with the new acquis, the EU will need to be harmonised, or amended and complemented by a series of implementing rules. The parties which have signed the UN Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol are obliged to establish a national system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions, to improve it, to report on emissions annually, and on a two-year basis on projections and policy implementation is a measure to mitigate climate change. In the negotiating positions for the Republic of Croatia, an 11% increase in emissions from the sector is allowed. The Regulation on the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia will be complemented by new requirements for monitoring and limiting emissions. The Republic of Croatia is a party to the Montreal Protocol on substances that have damaged the ozone layer since '91. A year. Thus, the parties to the Montreal Protocol are obliged to abolish the consumption of certain substances that damage the ozone layer by 2030 at the latest. In the EU, the deadline has been shortened and, in accordance with EU legislation, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to abolish the consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer except for specific purposes. So, until the Republic of Croatia enters full EU membership. For all of this, I will once again support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77563	Thank you. On behalf of the representative, as a representative of the motionor on behalf of the Government, the esteemed Nikola Ruzhinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd just try to answer a few questions or remarks. First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting this law and what I would like to say to the honourable representative Franić that we are, indeed, ready to talk and agree on these things which are, for example, related to Article 27 which may not be fully clearly written, but in any case, I agree with what he said. So we'll handle it. There are a few other problems about all the public procurement, etc., I think these are the technical things we discussed today on the board. It doesn't need to be answered here, it's the things that are being solved. What might be important is that I give my distinguished representative Mirali Holly some information and answers. First, the fact is what you said, that we came to Cancun, thanks to NGOs, for example one blacklist because of our request that we be classified as agreed and agreed by the Conference, of the UNFCCC accepted flexibility of 3.5 million tonnes of CO2 additional to what belonged to us under the Kyoto Protocol. And we disagreed with that, and we did not agree that in the first binding period, the first marketing period, so in the first binding period, we would not be recognised this flexibility. We felt that we had been brought into an unjust position and made a complaint. However, in the meantime, and I have to say unfortunately these quantities will not be needed in the first period because the measurements show that due to reduced industrial activity our quantities are not that much to go over and that we will need it. So that's what happened and we're not happy with. However, we have still stood at the point of view that we must fight our right and, in the meantime, the European Commission has offered us, or the EU has offered us the possibility of covering the potential needs we will need if we come to a position that we do not have to buy on the condition that we withdraw that appeal. And we decided to withdraw the appeal, concluded, or adopted the protocol together with the European Commission, which is entering into a mutual agreement between Croatia and the EU. So we've secured those quantities if they need them, but I'm afraid we won't need them. That's the first one. There are a few more questions. So, as far as SDM's concerned. There's also a possibility for SDM. Croatian companies were not interested in going out of Croatia and investing in a renewable energy source. We had one attempt to move down South America from the Croatian Forests, given that we have extremely good, quality forest management. But that part didn't get into this part, it didn't come true. GA projects that wanted to be made in Croatia we did not accept them because we could not allow the reduction of the emissions in Croatia to come, because we have such, so little that they still come out of Croatia. As for the other thing, let's say the other thing that you asked about is what's going to happen with free shows, that there's no strategy that doesn't know what's going to happen. First, free emissions will be obtained, our companies will be given the moment when we become a member of the European Union and for this is determined according to all the reports that we have submitted to the European Union during the negotiations are reserved, these emissions will be reserved. And the other thing is we're doing it now, we've got 72 companies registered in Croatia, and they're now getting a show license. So now they register all of their shows through the Croatian system. We have this and we will send it to the European Commission, but we cannot officially apply for that part yet. And the third thing you've set up is that you think in article 41 about investments in areas where the second category of air is. It is practically today but is implemented through the environmental impact study system, and if the air is such a quality that building a new facility, say energy or industrial, could be burdened further so that its improved quality cannot be obtained from a building permit. However, there are also measures in the law, in this proposal, that measures are being made in this case that must be respected by the time the plant enters the plant. Therefore, with the efforts of the local community, and I believe the states also said that we would have certain resources available from... We'll make it happen, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you just can't afford it. We have even now cases where, through an environmental impact study, it was not allowed to build a specific facility until the system was built, so because of the burden of truck traffic, the system had to be solved by rail. So it's allowed. And finally, as far as the industry strategy is concerned, which is waiting for industry the moment we enter the European Union, I can tell you an example of a cement industry that is extremely well organized. It prepares for all these critical measures so that they also work on the use of renewable sources, thus being mass or what it may be, anything that can reduce emissions and prepare to be a technology filled with Benchmark. So industry is one part of the oil industry, cement industry and some other industries are trying to accept and adapt to what will happen by entering the European Union. I'd like to thank you once again for supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77565	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77566	I'm sorry, I'll probably abuse this instrument. But I just wanted to say that the cement industry might be ready. Unfortunately, however, the state is not quite so prepared. I talked about it, and we know that in 2011 we still have no waste management centre in Croatia, which means that our cement industry probably will not be able to use RDF fuel that could reduce emissions to cementers, and we know that they are not allowed to import RDF fuel to Croatia. So they're in a very awkward situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77567	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77568	We move on to the proposal of the Air Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 852. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: First, a proposal for the Air Protection Act is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. The result? This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 113 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77569	We move to point 16 and that is - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 858. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and by the representative Zvonimir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77570	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me give you a brief explanation of the changes and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. First of all, we propose an amendment that will move one date that exists in the existing law, which is 1.1.2012, when all principals and primary and secondary schools are scheduled to re-election. We propose this change of date to move three years, i.e. by 1.1.2015, for the reasons that the conditions for licensing were not created, so it would not be correct, is it, to introduce the directors into a position that would actually be difficult to resolve? And two. This applies to the existing Article 126, which states what conditions are for the director, and is prepared by the expert. This section applies primarily to principals of primary schools. We had about 340 principals around here. That number has now fallen to below 300 because some in the meantime have acquired the necessary education, or some of them may have retired or are no longer in that position. However, what we also wanted to correct here, and related equally to the directors, they had until now been entitled to two terms of office for five years and then guaranteed their return to work. However, after the third term, they were no longer guaranteed. We now propose one article of the supplement to enable them as well as all other teachers in primary and secondary schools, that, after the end of the term of office, unless they have obtained the conditions for retirement and if they are not chosen to come to the lists of joint ruling committees for the deployment of technological surpluses at the founder level. Furthermore, we propose here to change the structure of the school board members. According to the current law, 9 are members of the School Board and three of the founders directly appointed by the Founder, 1 is a representative of the Working Council, 1 is a representative of the parents on a proposal from the Board of Parents of the School, and 2 are from the teachers and professional associates of the school institution. This is 7 and 2 were members according to the proposal of the Office of State Administration or in the City of Zagreb of the Central Office of the State Administration. With these amendments, we propose that there be no more these two members in the structure of the School Committee, which is proposed by the Office of State Administration or the Central Office of the State Administration, and that is actually the suggestion of the Ministry of Administration and their arguments for abandoning these 2 members are very convincing and we have accepted it. And we therefore propose that the amendment be such that the entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the law ceases the mandate for them, and that all the other members, so that the term of office runs until their end, and then will be re-elected in the new procedure. Furthermore, during 2010 and 2011, we signed border collective agreements with trade unions in primary and secondary schools and with them in border collective agreements, and in the basic collective agreement, we agreed that there was no longer any need to publish competitions for new jobs in school institutions in the daily press, rather than that there was only an obligation on HZZO’s website, HZZO’s advertising board, the school’s website and on their advertising board. So on the basis of one year, we're actually going to cut the cost of the state budget between 15 million and 20 million kuna. These are decentralised funds and the founders will still be able to dispose of these funds, so they won't have to pay for these tenders. We hope this change is welcome to everyone. Furthermore, we suggest that students' books be removed, so these are documents that our students had from 1st to 4th grade of primary school. However, as we now have a queen from which the testimony is withdrawn at the end of each school year, we suggest that the same treatment be done with students from 1st to 4th grade. That savings won't be as big as the last item I mentioned. It will be just over a million kunas, which parents will not have to pay at the start of schooling their child from 1st to 4th grade. Since the withdrawal of the testimonies from the queen is now going well with the initial difficulties that you are all bearing witness with us, we believe there is no reason not to introduce it for students from 1st to 4th grade. Furthermore, we propose here to supplement a provision on the Ministry of the Interior which conducts education for the occupation of a police officer, so far it was a course of eight months after the completion of a four-year high school. However, a proposal from the MUP came that they would have wanted to introduce it as early as the third year. And this year, they first opened a contest to receive 300 students. The interest is quite large, a thousand 570 applied, and we are in fact in this law only harmonising with their provision under their Law on the Police where they've already arranged it. They believe it will give them a better education of police officers which is actually in our interest in the Republic of Croatia and also in the education system. Furthermore, here we say in one paragraph that education for art programs will be implemented according to this law and according to a special law. I would like to inform you here, given that we have announced the adoption of the law in the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Art Education, that in the next week at the coordination of social activity this law will be and that in the autumn you will be welcomed by this law in the first reading, so we are actually opening up the possibility in the fundamental law. The same applies to a provision also to sports programmes, so it is a decision made by the minister himself, so here it is sanctioned. Furthermore, we propose that when it comes to enroling students especially in primary schools, it has initially become a permanent release, in the case of multiple difficulties, which many institutions are concerned about. Here we propose a temporary stay of enrolment that may take, say, a year. That's something the law lacked, so we want to make that clear. We suggest that under exceptional circumstances, with the consent of the ministry, the school watch can be shortened to not last for 45 minutes but, say, 5 minutes less, so we did not say it with a saying but at the request of a particular school or their founder to open such an opportunity. We also suggest that instead of the translation testimonies so far when a child passes from school to school, for example, because of a change in the residence of his parents, we believe that we do not need a testimony but only a copy of the grades and so we have suggested in these changes. We also suggest that at the beginning of the school year, the minister does not make a rule on the duration of the school year, but that he settles it by decision. We open up the possibility that it can be easier to intervene in some kind of unforeseen situation, and if it is a rule, then there is a procedure that needs to be published in the National Journal to pass a certain number of days which actually limits us if we need to react urgently. We prescribe ourselves the obligation to adopt rules on working time records in school institutions. In fact, there is a rule that has been passed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is actually adapted to all those who work 8 hours a day, and it is easy to record. However, when it comes to school institutions where the teacher works for 5 hours and spends the rest of his time at home preparing for teaching that we will adopt this rule which will actually be more precise and adapted to this activity. Finally, we propose that a framework programme of pedagogical competence be adopted for all those teachers who work in our secondary vocational schools who have completed the engineering course. So that the framework programme obliges those higher schools to implement these programmes so that there are not many different solutions. So it won't tighten them up that framework will be quite flexible, but that would be what would bring this ministry. Here's Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, for the introduction, I think I've said enough maybe more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77571	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First up are clubs, first up is the HDZ Club's distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. At first, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I am pleased that these amendments to the law have come into the procedure and that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the final proposal of the law, has resolved some dilemmas and, in particular, recently introduced a little unrest in our schools because it was necessary already in 1.1.2012 to re-election of all principals of primary schools, and in particular, it was devastating for those who had only a higher professional preparedness and such were almost 350, and it caused one situation in which there was dissatisfaction in schools. With this legislative proposal, re-election of directors from 1.1.2012 will move in three years so that the issue of these honorable people who have spent their lives in schools will be resolved on one hand, and now, at the end of their lifetime, they have come into a situation that a year, two before their retirement, may be left without work, in some way on the street that this has not happened. Therefore, this amendment of the law solves these cases, so more so, they solve all those cases additionally to which they highlight the labour contract and if it cannot be extended, and the principals are in primary schools, they can apply legally to offices that are our school practice with construction unions, state offices or the office of the City of Zagreb and be so on. A technological surplus. That's how I think we've made order in the system, and we've made it a situation for everything that's equal to saying hello, and I think that's one improvement in the system and that we've balanced some of the neural points that we've had so far. And what seems very good to me, and what I particularly support, we have saved up a system of money with a new way of advertising, the ability to advertise jobs in schools, which is on the web pages and on the advertising board of the Croatian Employment Institute. This seems very good to me because schools often open competitions for a variety of reasons and fill jobs not only regularly but also there are schools needed for ad hoc, although there is an institute for 60 days, but all these costs were extremely high if these competitions were published in the daily press, and it had to be that way and it was millions of kunas. This is for founders, huge money for schools and a solution has been found and I welcome it because this solution has long been sought and I think it is a good solution to keep it on the web pages and on the advertising board of the Croatian Employment Service from now on, everyone can be informed where it is sought, from the shortest deadlines to permanent jobs and that is good, we welcome it to the club of the Croatian Democratic Community. Indeed, there are some other solutions here in this legal proposal ahead of us that seem to be good. So I'll point out the following. Amendments and additions to the laws are proposed to prescribe a primary education obligation for students with multiple development difficulties up to 21 years of life, as well as the possibility for children or students with those difficulties to be temporarily released from enrolment in the 1st grade of primary school, or that if justified reasons arise during education, temporary school releases. These amendments simplify and streamline the keeping of records on pupils in such a way that students of all primary school classes are given a certificate which has not been so far, and this is one practice which is now technologically and technically arranged, unlike the practice so far for pupils from 1 to 4th grade of primary school to issue student books. So, let's forget the schoolbooks, they'll be gone. Respecting the specificities of educational staff's activities, these amendments and additions are also proposed to adopt a specific implementing regulation which will regulate the way in which the working time is recorded for school workers. I think this is very important, and it should be said that we in Croatia have done education quite quickly, we have given it that place in infrastructure, in the normative part, as in every European country. Education in Croatia is science, multidisciplinary science... Education and it has a complete vertical university, so we made it compatible. [[You don't understand.]] And I think that the record of working time, and the work at school itself is very specific, it's not work in the office, so the school is one dynamic, different organised, and I think this rule can handle these relationships well, but we have to determine our consciousness quite differently towards school. School never stops, learning never stops. However, such practices have been, I have seen this in many places as State Secretary before in Croatia. Let's say from some small places, I'm not going to say which one goes the last bus at 13,15, after 13,15 at that school there's nothing more. It's not good, it needs to be changed, but we still have to consider that these are specific situations. But it's a tragedy if you come to a city school where there's no one left in 14 hours, if there's one shift. That's what I think that practice is gone, that it's gone, that schools live, work, create and are very dynamic, not only in relation to their community but in communication with the environment, with the community they live in. So that seems to me, Mr. Secretary of State, that it's a good thing you're dealing with it. Since the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools is prescribed that teachers, teachers and professional associates must have the necessary pedagogical competences with appropriate training, these amendments and additions are proposed to adopt a provision which prescribes that the minister responsible for education adopts the Pedagogical Competence Framework Programme. It's good that this word is indicative because pedagogical competences really give our high schools which is fact. And here it seems to me that this is just one additional warning, one additional force, I don't see this as the only one but I think our higher schools are preparing teachers for the job, later the Education and Education Agency, but other competitors can also impose themselves on the training system, giving additional competences and strengths. And besides, we are witnessing that the European Union is also designing an additional system with constant directives, and here Croatia is on the verge of entering the European Union and we must innovate our system as we are innovating it because as far as we know this part of our system, the systematic training of teachers, professional associates, the director is ongoing and is happening today, and it is certainly some programme in the Republic of Croatia that makes such training seem. And here's to the end I want a few more details here pointed out. Amendments and provisions on the composition and selection of members of the school board are proposed. And that seems good to me, because we chose that variant of the congested body. The school board shouldn't have nine men as many as it had. And even seven might be a little full. But it might be five measures, but I won't bid because both seven and nine and five are legal. But it seems to me that this solution that you are now offering is much better so that the school board is no longer represented by the members who are proposing the Office of State Administration or the Ministry of Schools, which is the founder of the city of Zagreb as an amendment to the provisions for disbanding the school board according to which school provisions, the committees the founder of the city of Zagreb is disbanding the city's office, unlike the provisions in which the Ministry of Administration did so. In short, these are some facts that I wanted to present on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, repeating once again that I am particularly pleased and that we at the club are glad that these changes that bring wind in the system have occurred and will likely be possible for an even better organisation of the entire system in the coming period. The Croatian Democratic Community club will also vote for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77573	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77574	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me only begin to conclude one fact that I wish was no longer happening in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, while we are here today discussing plural, the Law on Raising and Education in Elementary and High Schools down in the Assembly is the thematic session of the Education Committee on one other law. It is very difficult for us as representatives of the field of education and science to be in two places, at the the thematic session of the board and at the same time here in the tide. We understand that Parliament's agenda is such that it is dense. However, if we had moved this debate for which hour I don't think anything historic would have happened, and we would have been able as agents to do our job and at the the thematic session of the board, but also here in the tide. But let's get back to this law. My colleagues and colleagues, I do not know if you are aware that the law we are now discussing was passed in 15.7.2008. Before this amendment and supplementation, the law has been amended twice. 15.7.2009 when you abolished free textbooks and free transportation. And second time, the law was amended in 15.7.2010. Now in 15.7.2011, the fourth year in a row on the last day of the emergency session, we again bring amendments and additions to the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. What has been a practice since 2008 has shown that this law needs much more than some ironing in the last days of the emergency session, that it needs a really big reconstruction, because its almost three-year application has pointed to significant shortcomings. First, colleagues and colleagues what is important for school, which is what is taught and taught at school. We didn't even touch that. We don't have a national curricula. We learn from old programs, we learn from old books. And as long as we don't change that, qualitative changes for the better at school won't happen. The other day we read in the paper recently that our children are xenophobic, that there is no value in society. My colleagues and colleagues, how will they be if we didn't touch the programs. And it's the responsibility of this ministry. Second. The law was passed, so three years ago exactly. The deadline for the adoption of implementing rules for the application of the law was one year. We don't have a good part of the implementing rules today after three years. When you passed the law, you boasted of new rules on the licensing and promotion of teachers. Do you know what rules and today's teachers are making progress? It's a mid-90s rule. The provisions on directors I'm going to tell you about a little later we're postponing his application, the State Secretary said, because the conditions have not been met. The conditions do not fall from the sky because the ministry did not prepare them for being bound by the provisions of this Law. By the way, they suggested it themselves. So it's a special problem in this law. Another type of problem is as I said all amendments and additions to the law, the law itself and then all amendments and additions have been made, or indeed proposed at the last moment just before the summer break of the Croatian Parliament. The resulting law is in many parts due to the speedy adoption in many parts of it inaccurate, insufficiently designed, and even professionally dubious. Many, I will mention these things later in the debate, many of these changes have been rejected by the SDP's amendments three years ago. But first, let me say something about the urgency of the procedure. The urgency of the procedure is justified by three substances in this Act. First, there are particularly justified state reasons since new legal solutions need to be implemented in the system by the start of the new school year. My colleagues and colleagues, you probably don't know that in December, the Education Committee reached a unanimous conclusion and sent a request to the ministry to go with the amendments and additions to these urgent things that we need for the next school year as soon as possible. They promised it in the spring. We waited 15.7. So, indeed, there are no particularly justified state reasons, but possibly not to say the leniency of the word to use the insufficient design of work within the ministry itself. Secondly, the second reason is the urgency that says the proposal includes provisions in line with collective agreements. In fact, a new collective contract for primary education was signed this year in the spring and just before and for secondary school. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you whether the law should be adapted to collective agreements or whether it should be the other way around. Who brings laws here? Union and ministry negotiating teams or the Croatian Parliament, which is the employer of the same minister and the same team from the ministry. And the third reason, he said, is not possible to ensure the conditions for the implementation of the entry into force of the provisions of Article 126. It is this already known directoral license and problem of the director with higher professional training in primary schools. Let me take that a little bit more. Therefore, it is proposed that this delay, therefore, take place until the end of 2014, i.e. on 1 January 2015, the full scope of the provisions of Article 126 of the Law, which means that directors must have a lodged, renewed licence under the new programme, i.e. that principals can no longer be trained in primary schools. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you what will happen, what will we do by the end of 2014, would we not again have an emergency procedure to postpone it for the next three years? If we're not going to do anything, I suggest we make a deal, put the amendment there that the provision is valid until the last director retires, this more professional fit. The directors of more professional training must be educated from 2 to 4 years of studies, assuming that there are programmes in Croatia and do not exist. To enroll now in the autumn of that programme, so in the academic year 2011/2012. This is the first year of the year, in 2012/2013. 2nd year (Bolonski is 5), 2013/2014. the third year can theoretically not be 1.01.2015. VSS, or experts at the level of graduate studies. That we have programs and that they're all listed now. Neither are they enrolled, nor do we have a program in the Republic of Croatia. So, what's the problem? One part of our principals was more professional equipment because they used to apply regulations and in schools worked more professionally. Meanwhile, as the entire system was being developed, a regulation was passed, and that is fine, that only VSS experts can work in schools with a transitional provision that those who have been educated can work previously with titles that they have acquired, which is quite fine. The Faculty of Teachers in Zagreb had a school program with a 2-year study at a 4-year study. However, the teachers of mathematics, physics, chemistry, geography, history, everything else theoretically in the Republic of Croatia could not have been educated from 6 to 7 degrees of high professional training, or now to graduate studies because our universities did not schedule programmes, and the ministry did nothing to encourage them to set up such programs. Some of the principals made it. Two universities, two high-level institutions in the neighbouring country have made the whole business. One director tells me I can go to Banja Luka, finish my studies and get that VSS diploma, but I will not pay several thousand euros out of respect for the profession. And now you won't have any problems, such directors will have problems, and those who are for, let me say rough words, several thousand euros bought diplomas with them are all right. Something Mr. Secretary of State doesn't work in the system. We from the SDP would like to hear the answer to what will be done by 1.01.2015 so that we do not have the same thing again to extend the deadline. I repeat, even if in the autumn they now enter programs, which I repeat do not exist, these studies can hardly be completed within the time limit set by this law. And it's almost certain, that we can bet here, that we're going to have to push that deadline one more time because it's not right to throw people on the road. When they were employed, their jobs were kept, and other regulations were valid. As fair as the opposite attitude is, that is, if teachers have to be VSS, they should also be principals. However, we are in a transitional period, so I think that we can leave some of these inconsistencies, but of course, on the condition that we allow people to be educated. Okay, well, then those who choose don't get schooled should have the consequences of that decision, but now they didn't even have a choice. So much for Director VHS. Now, about the license. The law stipulates that the directors who are in the current election have the first licence of the director, which is also valid until 1.01.2012. He said counterpart Šetic had just said on behalf of the HDZ club that this should be extended because the conditions had not been met. Hey, buddy, why didn't they get the terms? Did the Ministry bring in the Director's License Regulation? It's not. Did he have to bring it? It is. Did the ministry, in cooperation with the agencies, bring in the School Programme for Directors, which they boasted about three years ago when the law was passed? It's not. Did they have to? They did. So we're extending that deadline not because of some abstract unscathed conditions, but because in this country, co-workers and colleagues someone isn't doing their job that was obliged to do. Of course, as representatives, we don't have much choice, we need to support these changes because we simply don't have a choice. But I think it's time for once to say enough and for people in the executive power to start implementing laws that, by the way, have proposed themselves with opposition from us from the SDP so that the thing would be a little bit even bizarre. In this law, there are several less important ones, although they are not irrelevant and indisputable, as far as the SDP is concerned, changes. This enrolment, the change in child enrollment in the first grade of primary school with multiple difficulties, the abolition of the student's book is indeed rationalization with one note – I hope Mr. Secretary of State that your e-mail is working. By bringing in, therefore, the introduction that these 4 first classes have to print e-Mother's testimonies we have another rush on the e-Mother's system that we've overpaid and which unfortunately doesn't work, so I hope there's still a little money invested in improving functionality so that this part won't be a blow to that system. For the testimonies, the translators and the copying of the evaluations are worth the same. Bringing in a special rules for the record of working hours for school workers is perfectly fine. It is really not possible to apply the general rules of the Labour Act, unfortunately our teachers and school teachers do not have their own cabinets, all and that they will not be able to spend 8 hours working hours and then part of work from home, part of work at school and really need a new rule. Unfortunately, the amendment subsequently established through the Committee in cooperation with the Ministry provides for the adoption of that Regulation within 90 days. My colleagues and colleagues in 90 days, we'll be halfway through the first term. We say he has to get an emergency procedure to get to the next school year. Now, if we have to go urgently to arrive for the beginning of the next school year, that rule must be passed within 30 days, what 90? Then why the emergency procedure? This part of the recruitment contest that doesn't have to go to the papers, colleagues and colleagues of the SDP club, we submitted an amendment in 2008 to that effect, you refused. The Ministry is... And you told your colleague Shetić that we would make significant savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could've already realized them if you'd accepted our amendment. All right, well, it's better to be smart, or even later, than nothing. Several more of our 2008 amendments have been encrypted through these changes. We're glad to see this part of the school board, then we've proposed a different composition without members of the Office of the State, but I repeat better ex post than any other smarts. We from the SDP club have submitted two amendments to those amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture which have been amendments to the SDP proposal, we have submitted two amendments. One of these concerns is that the joint commission made up of representatives of the Office of Administration and the majority but also of the minority unions in education jointly decide on the distribution, so on the employment of these people available. We wish there was enough wisdom in the ministry to accept this proposal. In fact, there are numerous disputes in the field between one union and another. Very often the state administration offices don't know which union, so to speak, and it seems to us that it's simply a matter of reason and responsibility, and not that we have to have an ex post mind again in a few years and now accept that amendment. In the end, we SDP MPs depend on how the Proposer will plead on this amendment, if it is expressed positively, we are prepared to support the amendments and additions of this Act with one more warning that in this way that every year 15. 7. We bring changes to the Law of Speed, that the system has many problems and that the most important problems we have not touched are not well written for our education or our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77575	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations of the first respected representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative presented a number of facts that could be said and challenged but one said that implementing rules, so sublegal acts that the ministry had done nothing. Well, I think colleagues are almost 80%, 85% of what the law predicts is real and something isn't. I agree that education needs a high degree of consensus between the political forces that lead the country because education enters every house but it seems to me that this legal proposal also shapes our education system and improves it as a whole so that some of your remarks that may have been in your discussions earlier may be accepted but I don't think it's as black as you've tried to set.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77577	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Lugaric is not correct that colleagues and colleagues who are in the system of primary education and school principals are also a problem of education and education in Croatia. In my view, the problem of education and education in Croatia is that we do not allow that person to enter the system regardless of the level of basic schooling, secondary schooling, professionally to enter those people who do not have pedagogical psychological education, who do not have the didactics, methods, psychology of childhood and youth, pedagogical psychology and work with our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77579	Thank you. And individual debate, one registered distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well here we have seen that in this area of education and education there are the most amendments, the most submitted amendments, we have also seen that very often those who come from this side have been rejected, but also today I welcome that they are still put into being actually an integral part of the Law. Today, in a very short discussion, I'm actually going to ask a few practical questions. In fact, this law shows that the state office, on a proposal from the expert commission, makes a variety of solutions among other things, we have a solution to early enrolment, then temporary releases from education, postpone enrolment in the first class, then it is an appropriate programme for students of primary and secondary education, for students with developmental difficulties. Mr. Secretary of State, I hope you'll listen to me because I'm going to ask a very practical question about what's bothering me. Also involving students with developmental difficulties in regular programmes. It actually raises questions that I last had on a college of principals that I had in Dubrovnik, if the commission is a psychologist, a defectologist, a teacher, a school doctor if, for example, a proposal for a solution for a special form of schooling in elementary schools, is it really the parent who gives a professional opinion? Professional opinion cannot be given by a parent, of course, because if a parent does not give permission to the observation process regardless of the difficulty it can not begin with... or begin. At least that's how it is in our Office of State Administration. So the question arises here is whether a parent is doing well for his child and who here is a more competent parent or doctor, or the whole team, that is the first question to be asked. The second question, I'm going to use it here and this is about a list of schools that work under difficult conditions and receive a protective supplement. About this Šipan and Lopud are on the list, and Kolochep is not, so I simply ask the question of what is the difference and whether Kolocep is an island or a land. We all know it's an island. And yet another question, the city of Dubrovnik has brought a network of schools, however, it is obviously not adopted because we have received that still the school of Šipan does not go to the school in Gruž. Here are three questions I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, either now or later, to answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77581	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to give a final review? Yeah. Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77582	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm going to try very quickly to answer these questions that have been asked and what's been troublesome. Namely, I'm sorry that we're not here anymore who had participation in the debates when the laws were changed, etc., but since Commissioner Lugaric mentioned a lot of things that weren't good, I'll answer that first of all, that the system no matter how much he invested in it will never be as good as it could be. But please, when we talk about what needs to be done, it would not be bad to mention what the good is done. So let me fill in this story, so I'll mention what not only Commissioner Lugarić agreed to, but also the HDZ Club when we brought these documents here to the Croatian Parliament. So I'll remind you in these 7, 8 years how long it's been since we passed the Law on Professional Education which in one special way arranged this education system and made it possible on the one hand to adopt new curricula, only these things I mention on the other hand our participation in a number of IPA projects. So I'm going to mention that we've already brought a curricula, a nurse of general care since last year and the first year he entered the school benches with a very big interest both this and last school year that this year we've brought a new curricula dental assistant and that by the end of the year we're bringing another 24 new curiculas. So much for what it's about, let's say, these curriculas, that it was a premise to pass the Law of Professional Education. Furthermore, why not mention the Law on adult education which you have also welcomed as well as this previous law. We established both the agency and the education agency for adults and the Professional Education Agency. When I talk about supporting the law, I think first of all about the Law on Professional Education that you supported and I think it's almost unanimously passed. Furthermore, we have passed the Law on textbooks that you finally took part in and made quality suggestions that finally arranged this matter to last at least 4 years so that the textbooks could inherit. Furthermore, we have brought a network of schools that has never been brought to the Republic of Croatia, we have brought state pedagogical standards that have never been adopted in Croatia, we have introduced a system of external evaluations that has never been in the Republic of Croatia, we have spent the second year in a row of state graduations that have never been in the Republic of Croatia, and according to the grades of all of them, it has provided a different enrollment at higher schools where no one can call and ask for any intervention because of what the system is so set up and what is enrolled from summer or wherever you want. Furthermore, we announced and you had the opportunity to see we go with the pilot e-mail project, even for many years with on-line enrolments in high school. So we're in that part of the system I'm not talking about right now this queen who's had initial difficulties and I pointed out that, now you're not, and that's what you're witnessing these days when the testimony is being printed. So we have fully adapted the system to new technologies. And that would be worth mentioning. And when we talk about this detail where you asked for it, and we can accept it to shorten the time limit for the adoption of the rules on records in school institutions, I must remind you, four months ago, a commission was appointed to make that rule. And that's why I accept it, so be it by the beginning of this year and it will be. So that's what we did, so don't put it under suspicion that it won't be done. This is what I say responsibly here and we do it with our partners or unions on this team. Don't caricate and tell me how we adapt to what's out there in collective agreements. So if you know that there are correct relations between the social partners and if there is something in one document, then it is correct to cover it with another document. If we were to eliminate by law everything that was signed in collective agreements, then it would be an act of agreement reached in the case of basic schooling after negotiations of almost 8 months. So for these reasons, we see that this is identical in one document and then we start using it. The goal is to improve something and we did it. So all these questions that you've mentioned about all the questions are actually answers, and the fact that we have frequent changes is to improve the system. And when we do, if we're going to blame that, then I don't know why there's an institution of change. When it comes to difficult working conditions, the respected representative Bonačnić therefore has a school with difficult working conditions. These are the material rights of our teachers, they are determined by collective agreements and there are listed schools with difficult working conditions and therefore teachers who work at school with difficult working conditions and pay off. Therefore, it is not a substance that is taxed in the law itself from 1 to 34 but is in a collective contract and is treated accordingly. So that's the result of the social partners' negotiations. It's written there and it's handled. Why some school is some school isn't, really isn't a matter that needs to be regulated by law. And a long question of the school network. The government of the Republic of Croatia brought a network of schools on June 2nd. It is a document in the work that was actually attended by all who were invited to do so, especially the founders of school institutions. In this case, when you talk about Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so as she suggested, so is the school network for the county and brought in. If there are different proposals, the possibility of changes is open, if the founder in his area is considered to be something to change, there will be no reason for the Government to refuse such a thing. When there are enough such suggestions, let it change as you say, because you know best in your field what a network of schools should look like. But I must remind you that we need to be rational and we cannot allow some school with 76 students to function as a parent school that will have both directors and secretaries and accountants, so one entire drive if there is a home school nearby that can be a regional school. We have a situation like this and we have to be good masters here, and we don't let a class department in one generation of schools function as a parent. I don't think anyone would let that happen. When it comes to our cooperation with the offices of the state administration, I promise you here, on these matters, that we will resolve these matters with the offices of the state administration which may be for some unarranged, but in this case and with all those institutions that are referred to it by the attorney general through other services. In the end, I want to thank you for the debates, for understanding, it is, of course, no matter what you say best at the beginning of the school year, with what needs to be changed. The worst solution when in the mid-term, some changes are made in the middle of the year and schools have to react accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77583	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77584	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 858. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, MP Zvonimir Mršić and SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask Mr. Željir Janjic's representative of the motion for State Secretary of State to take note of the proposed amendments. First, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture relating to, Amendment 1 to Article 13(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77585	We accept the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77586	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Next, Amendment 2 to Article 15(1) of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77587	The second amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77588	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third amendment of the same proposal to Article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77589	And we accept the third amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77590	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the bill. Then we have the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the first amendment relating to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77591	The amendment of the SDP representative club relating to Article 11 cannot be accepted. Namely, the setting up of a framework programme for the acquisition of teacher competences is based on a number of reasons, we have found that the introduction of the Bologna Process at higher school institutions has been an innovation of parent programs but the old system of education of teachers has been maintained through four areas of pedagogy, didactics, psychology of education and education and methods of a particular teaching subject. High school programme holders did not all modernise teacher education but continued to implement it as a common programme basis. I must point out here that high schools have addressed the ministry with requests for approval of their programmes and after we have established differences in programmes we have decided to adopt a framework. The higher schools of course expect this from the ministry because the framework programme will facilitate their creation of implementing programmes. We also note that in the economic recovery programme, we have had the tasks of adopting teaching competences, teaching professions that are of national importance, and we believe that the Ministry should worry about achieving these competences together with higher universities. And in other countries of Europe, the competent ministry brings a framework curricula to obtain the profession of teachers and is realised by high school institutions. And for these reasons, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77592	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77593	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, even though one part of the argument on the non-compliance of the high-school programme does not stand autonomy of the university is the constitutional category and is guaranteed especially in this programme section. All that the Ministry prescribes a framework programme for the acquisition of the competences of higher universities it will in no way and cannot, by constitution, and must not commit higher schools. Therefore, to establish by law the obligation that the Ministry determines the programme that they have to implement universities is, I dare say, almost and unconstitutional. So we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77594	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment to Article 12 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77595	The second amendment of SDP's Club of Representatives also cannot be accepted, it is a matter that is regulated by border collective agreements and is thus established. If a person sees a certain error in the process, then there are services that need to be reported, and they are obliged to sanction any such procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77596	Mrs. Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77597	The fight against corruption does not take place by adopting a national anti-corruption programme, the fight against corruption is not driven by declarations, but is conducted by prescribing clear rules of the game that prevent corruption. Secondly, the rules to say so, the social agreement is primarily determined in the Law and the collective contract is not and cannot be above the law. You said if he showed up on the field he had problems. Secretary of State, you know better than I do. We've been talking about a lot of problems. In some counties, the situation is dramatic to the extent that even the price of a given job is known. I really don't understand why you don't want to completely disable such corruption by accepting this amendment and why you continue to support such behaviour. The introduction into the Law of this provision would make it impossible for those attempts of inadmissible conduct, so unfortunately, the Ministry continues to support corrupt behaviour, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77598	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We move on to the proposed amendments by Mr. Zvonimir Mršić to Amendment 1 to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77599	The amendment of Zvonimir Mršić to Article 5 cannot be accepted because it is a multi-year practice that, in accordance with the law, the Office of the State Administration or the City Education and Sport Office of the City of Zagreb, which has the necessary capacity to carry out the prescribed tasks on a proposal for expert commissions, provides solutions to early or postpone enrolment in the 1st grade of primary school or temporary school leave or an appropriate primary or secondary education programme for students with difficulty in developing or eliminating a solution on an appropriate basic or secondary education programme for students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77600	Thank you. Since there is no representative, who is for this amendment please raise your hand? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Second amendment of the same agent to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77601	The second amendment of Mr. Zvonimir Mršić also cannot be accepted, it is a matter of extension of the first licence and since this first deadline is to be moved until 31 December 2014 in this way should be formulated, i.e. we do not have the conditions for the implementation of Article 126.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77602	Who's in favour of this amendment to Mršić? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment of the same agent to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77603	Even the third amendment of the same representative cannot be accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment and concerns the obligations of the school boards to discuss the competition, since we move that deadline in 3 years, so it will be in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77604	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to Mr. Mr. Grić? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment 4 to Article 19 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77605	We also cannot accept this amendment because it also refers to the extension of this deadline to 1. 1. 2015
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77606	Thank you. Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a final bill. Score. The law was passed by a majority of 109 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77607	Now we move to point 15. that is - Final proposal of the Household Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 859 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. A businessman. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77608	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. The first written traces of foster care in the territory of the Republic of Croatia date back to 1902 and since then in foster care in different parts of the Republic of Croatia have been developed in a different way so that in certain areas we have almost highly developed foster care as well as in large areas of the Republic of Croatia where we have no developed foster care at all. At the moment we come before you with a new Household Law proposal in the Republic of Croatia, there are 1332 foster families with 1955 users of children of whom 1675 children are without parental care, 250 children with developmental difficulties and 30 children with behavioral problems. We also have 1303 foster families for adults with 1394 users, most old and powerless persons, persons with disabilities or mentally ill persons. During the reform of the social care system, we have announced, therefore, that according to the strategy of the development of the social care system adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the new Social Care Act adopted by this House, that a new law will be found before you soon, the Household Law, in a way that fostering the Republic of Croatia is popularised, improved and in a way that is based on the development of the deinstitutionalisation of the social care system, and that is one of the main objectives and common memorandum on the inclusion and way that our citizens who need certain assistance in life in a way that is suitable for more than one family environment, allow them to achieve at least the human rights that our Constitution allows them to achieve in Croatia. In this bill, the new thing is that it divides the way of foster care into four categories. The first category or the first way of fostering is the traditional way of fostering as we have today and what practically most foster parents have developed this foster home to the adoption of this law and for which it is predicted, clearly and loudly, that there will be a majority in the future, which means that no one who has so far been engaged in foster care loses that right of foster care but that he will continue to pursue foster care in the same way, but this time through the form of traditional foster care. In addition to this, we introduce novelty, it is a specialized foster care, the foster care provided for children with developmental difficulties, children with behavioral disorders or persons with disabilities that foster care should be a high professional foster care that could provide all the challenges and meet all the needs of users who will be fostered in such a way. The third system is a system of occasional foster care that is designed precisely for certain situations that we have, human situations in today when it is not necessary to determine permanent foster care, and when it has to go out to meet and help families and in some way temporarily take care of the user of the system from any category of citizens so that something can happen in the family itself or as a problem solve or develop. And the fourth, perhaps the most interesting part for those of us who run the system is so-called. The urgent foster care that implies, in this proposal, between others and the possibility and a new instrument, that if we have a child victim of domestic violence, a child in one quality way should be taken care of extra-institutionally so that in one timely and quick way, the institutions of the state can react and, on the other hand, leave the institutions of the state to do their job in real time quality. Such foster care will be provided through three types, so it will be provided through related, non-native foster care or professional foster care. For professional foster care, we have envisaged high professional training, a profession that will be able to work not only in a professional way but in a highly professional way and provide already mentioned the necessary care. It is also necessary to point out in the opening statement that it is in the foster care system of the Republic of Croatia, it is one of the basic conditions for deinstitutionalisation, how this deinstitutionalisation will result in children, which was the subject of the Social Care Act, children up to 7 years of age no longer being prepared in institutions, and also to provide greater capacity for the accommodation of older and powerless because we are aware that there is a problem in Croatia today with capacity and arrangements in institutions for the accommodation of old and powerless. The drafting of this legislative proposal was attended by associations that have so far been involved and representatives of foster organizations have therefore translated all their experiences and all their thinking into one such document. We hope that today's debate, if there is a need, will allow certain things to be added and here in the opening statement, we can already say that during the debate on the Committee on Law, we have received three amendments to improve the text and we accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77609	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nedjak Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is what the secretary of state has already said that the need for the adoption of a new Household Law stems from the new Social Care Act, which came into force on 2 June this year, and one of the main provisions of social care reform is deinstitutionalisation, improvement and popularisation of foster care in Croatia. Therefore, the point is to reduce the number of users in the institutions of social care and to popularise housing, to produce more foster families in Croatia at all at all, and especially in areas where such a form of extra-institutional care has not been revived and is still being stegmatized. The value of the foster home institution lies in the fact that the householder lives in a foster home as if in his own family, so in the most similar way, meets the need for housing, nutrition, care, education to have complete care about health, being respected and loved, and cannot be met in his own family. The plan of deinstitutionalisation and transformation of homes of social care from 2011 to 2016, which was brought by the Minister of Health and Social Care, set deadlines for providing users of accommodation outside the institutions and youth without adequate parental care, children and youth with behavioural disorders, children with developmental difficulties, older and powerless persons and adults with disabilities, as well as mentally ill persons, and firstly through accommodation in the foster family. Mr. Secretary of State already spoke of foster care, so there's no need to repeat that. As much as Croatia can raise itself with a tradition of foster care that is longer than a century for some user groups is a very rare form of social care. In traditional foster care, children are placed without adequate parental care and their psychophysical development does not deviate more from the growth of other children of the same age and adults to meet the daily needs of life related to their life or health. Hostage, for example, in Dalmatia is very poorly developed unlike some other parts of Croatia and what exists now are mostly related foster families. This law will certainly change that picture, popularise this form beyond institutional care and regionally unify the number of foster families. We now have 114 state and non-state homes and other legal entities in Croatia, and in all forms of care, 12813 users, i.e. 8545 persons, are taken care of at regular or weekly accommodation. Of that, 71 is a state home, 24 non-state, and 19 other legal entities. We also have 1332 foster families for children and youth and 1955 users of whom the most children are without adequate parental care 1675, 250 are children with developmental difficulties and 30 children with behavioral disorders. For adults we have a total of 1303 foster families and there are 1394 users for elderly and powerless persons, persons with disabilities and mentally ill adults. The new Social Care Act is, as I will say again, the secretary of state has already highlighted the foundations of the deinstitutionalisation of children under the age of 7 of life placed in homes for their accommodation in foster families and where possible for the establishment of adoptions. Furthermore, 40% of children with behavioural disorders located in homes and 40% of children with developmental difficulties deinstitutionalize into primary family or outside of institution-based accommodation by 2016. That's how it's drawn up with this plan. So specialized foster care is brand new. Therefore, for children with behavioural disorders with developmental difficulties, adults, victims of family violence and people with disabilities. A specialized foster parent must have special skills because he and his family provide a user with specialized care services. We at the HDZ Club welcome both urgent or temporary foster care for the prompt action of, for example, the child who suffered domestic violence so as not to continue to suffer in his family until the perpetrator's proceedings have been completed. Emergency foster parents will also have important potential for foster parents so that they can restore their energy and, during the rest of the year, be calm, or calm, that his child is in safe and professional hands. A whole new category is also a professional foster care for children and younger adults as well as for people with disabilities. A professional foster parent may carry out his activity as an independent professional activity if he is an expert in the field of social work, social pedagogy, logos, psychology, educational rehabilitation, working therapy, education and medicine, whether he will work as single or with members of his family in this case. A professional foster parent must have at least 5 years of experience as a foster parent, at least three years as a specialized foster parent or five years of work in a childcare profession or other care facility. Therefore, the previously acquired work experience is recognised. It must have at least a secondary school education of medical orientation or high school education. Furthermore, this law clearly lays down the conditions for the provision of foster care in the network of public social services and the conditions to be met by the foster home and family members. The Minister shall be responsible for the adoption of rules on the implementation of tenders for the completion of the host network. The social plan of the county is very important and the means provided will show what is special, which is needed by the number of types of fosterers in the network of public social services. The decision is made by the minister, informs the institutions and they hold a public tender. So the focus is going in the direction of the foster home network. The law accurately prescribes the procedure for granting, renewing, suspending and suspending the authorisation to carry out foster care. Where a foster care team adopts a solution to fulfil the conditions for the provision of foster care, it shall refer to compulsory training prior to the issue of a licence. After training, he gets a five-year licence for a particular type of foster care and is registered in the foster home register. The law imposes personal compensation on the fosterer for the care provided and the effort made with the monthly compensation for the accommodation and other needs of the users. No foster care is recognised in the family household. There is great responsibility on the foster care team of the foster home, i.e. the current or current social care centres located in the centre of the county where the child or user is located. This responsibility lies in the obligation to develop a network of fosterers, public social services in the selection and preparation of foster parents, to monitor the provision of accommodation services and training of foster parents with professional assistance, support and supervisory of foster parents in the county. A very important obligation for the foster home is the implementation of compulsory training and education of foster parents. The law clearly defines even greater fines for violations of this Law. In the preparation of laws such as the State Secretary and stressed the participation of representatives of associations engaged in this activity and foster care such as the amendments adopted. The HDZ Club particularly supports the award of recognition to foster parents for outstanding success in hosting the International Family Day. The ultimate goal is to make the life of the householder happier, such as in spite of the compensation for the efforts and needs of the beneficiaries of the prizes, i.e. thanks to the foster home and family members for their noble work, for they are men who are surely beside empathy for this work deep in their insides cherishing the philanthropy. Finally, the HDZ club supports the adoption of the Household Act in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77611	Thank you. Now it's the turn of the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Householding as a volunteering service in Croatia has a tradition and functions for many years. According to the proposal of this new law, fosterhood could become a profession, or full - payed profession. It is about foster parents without adequate parental care with behavioral or disability problems, and the conditions for a professional foster parent are: completed college in the field of social work, social pedagogy, psychology, logopedia, educational rehabilitation, working therapy and education or completed secondary school and at least 5 years of experience as a foster parent or 5 years of working in a children's home or educational institution. Professional foster parents are also expected to receive a monthly salary of 5.5 thousand kuna. The Union of foster parents disagrees with the conditions for foster parents. They believe that professional preparation should not be a crucial factor but an experience and model status of a person as a foster parent. For example, they state the practice in Slovenia, and since it is about children with developmental and behavioural difficulties, experience is much more important than education. That is what the Hosts' Alliance states. And I'm asking the promoter do we have a picture of the number of potential foster parents? If we have it then it's a good situation, and if we don't, I'm afraid that part will remain a dead letter on paper. The Household Act regulates an extremely sensitive topic that requires wide involvement of professionals and practitioners who can and should offer quality and enforceable solutions with the aim of improving life and work both the user and all those who will work on these difficult social problems with a lot of love and joy, but also benefits both personal and even more general social. For these reasons, the HNS-HSU club expresses regret that the law only goes in one reading. I believe that the law has experienced another reading that this uncertainty, or opposition from the Union of foster parents, could then be resolved until the second reading. In case there is no second reading, and the HNS-HSU club suggests that this law goes into second reading, and if it is not reached by the HNS-HSU club, it has submitted 2 amendments to this bill. The first, relating to Article 6 or to the principle of the HNS-HSU club, we propose to amend the name of the principle – the principle of integration in the principle of inclusion. Here, I'll explain why we think so. The proposed name shall, to a greater extent, maintain the intention of applying the principle, i.e. to highlight the cooperation and proactive role of users in planning how to meet their needs in relation to the concept of integration which suggests the integration of users into the social environment, which is reflected through the principle of sustainability of social ties. We further propose, so beyond Article 6, we propose a new principle and Article 7. – the name of the principle would be the principle of best interest to the user. The following shall be held in paragraph 1: "In determining the needs and circumstances of the user's accommodation in the foster family, the needs of the user, or the objectives of the individual plan, shall be guided." The proposed principles were, in fact, guided by the legislator, I hope. And finally here I would like to personally wish for all the happiness in finding quality foster families of the Social Care Centre in our beautiful town of Zapresic, who has betrayed a flyer and I will read that message from the flyers because I believe it is extremely significant and extremely important. The message says, "Don't change the world, change the life of a child." I absolutely agree with that message, and I really call upon all those who think they can and want to change the world of one child to engage and respond to this social center's call. The HNS-HSU Club will support this bill because we believe that the bill brings positive shifts, but if it is possible at all, it would be good for the Proposer to accept a second reading and in that time would agree to this opposition from the Alliance of Hosts for which we hold it justified and that time must be given to agree on the views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77613	Thank you very much, ma'am. And there remains a SDP representative club and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77614	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The family environment, in fact a positive family environment is one of the most important factors in protecting young people in order to protect themselves from various risk impacts during their growth and development. However, all families, of course, are unable to fulfill their tasks, i.e. to adequately take care of proper growth and development, and that is why if the child’s development in the family is at stake and if parents are unable to care for children for some reason, then the welfare system is obliged, or has the task of providing children with the best possible care. One of the possible forms of extra-institutional, or extra-parent childcare pardon is accommodation in a foster family. Households are usually temporary until they actually settle opportunities in a biological family or actually do not refer to a decision on the permanent care of a child. Actually, until that decision is made. Householding as a volunteering service dates back to the 18th century. At the end of the 1980s and 90s, the scientific community recognized the advantage of the household accommodation of users and organized the first course for them in Dubrovnik. I must say that foster care is a great responsibility, but, of course, it's also a big challenge. In their homes, foster parents give these children and adults a warm home and surely that such children are always hurt and let down, they have bad experiences of this, it is one big responsibility and on the other hand it is a challenge to try to change the fate of such children and, of course, to help adults. As far as foster care in Croatia is concerned, I must now say a few details of the picture now. The total accommodation of foster families when watching adults and children in 2007 was 5 thousand 519 users, 8. 5153, 9. 5105, today 3349 users of which 1955 are children and young. From the present one is visible, I am talking about the current state of affairs that the number of users of foster care from year to year is falling and, of course, this is not the direction towards deinstitutionalisation towards which they want to go. Therefore, when we look at the current picture of the situation in Croatia, we have an unbalanced number of foster families in the regions, so children often settle far away from their residences or responsibilities, the home care center or relatives. And I'm bothered by one finding somewhere at the beginning of the opening part when it's written that they're getting cultural and climate change that they're getting, that they're getting, that they're climate change, that they have a whole other concern than that. Then, we have a continuous decline in the number of children in foster families. I think that the lack of compensation for the foster parent is 400, 500 kuna depending on the number of children, the amount of supplies for children who amount to about 2000 kunas is very easy to melt, and then it's counting the child's supply into the income of the foster home, and here we have an example of Nova Gradiška. The supply isn't income, it's child's expense. It may be an accident in Novi Gradiška because it is an example only in Nova Gradišca. Then, the problem is that social care centres find it difficult to express measures for the necessary separation of children from the family or for the necessary lack of parental care. So very often we have that it is enough to sometimes call that a parent is interested in one, twice a month, so this individual interpretation still has a problem between the centre and the court decision where black holes children do not have time to wait, children are threatened by this time is sometimes very long. The current state that there is no register of foster parents which this law will improve, then, poor co-operation of foster parents with kindergartens and schools. Then it's a problem right now, I'm talking about conducting a supervision for foster parents, there's not enough experts to prepare foster parents and children to leave the foster home, that's when they leave. There is then a small number of educated foster parents, a small number of foster parents in urban areas, and a lack of preparation for specialised foster care systems. For children with specific needs, for very small children and infants. Also, the largest number of foster parents are women 50, 60 years old, and even 52.21% of foster parents are schoolless, with incomplete elementary school or with finished primary school. Most foster one child, even in 43% of cases. In about 27% of cases, it's related foster care. The largest number of users in foster families is located in Zagreb and Zagreb County, followed by Osijek-Baranja, Koprivnica-Kryzevačka County. Unfortunately, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska and Sibenik-Knin County in Sibenik-Kninska have only 41 users. More specifically, if we are talking about the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the coastal area of our country from Cavtat to Umag including this and the entire Licko-Senj County in the foster care there are 604 users of both adults and children. I am not saying this by chance, the new social care law stipulates that children until the 7th year of life must be placed in a foster family or related family. I agree that this is the most appropriate form of care for children of that age and, of course, older. However, the logical question arises, how children, for whom it is necessary to put in a foster family because of inappropriate parental care, if such families are not in such a wide area of our country. How to get a child out by law which I welcome, of course, how to get a child under the age of 7 from an institution if there is no one. In order for such measures to be taken above all, it is necessary to popularise foster care, to achieve favourable conditions for potential foster parents, to provide quality care but, of course, faster development of that foster institution. Here we are now on the subject of the proposed law that we are discussing today. I wonder if this law allows what we're talking about. I've read it a few times, on a few occasions, I'm a very empathyist person I don't see, I didn't find it encouraging me to foster foster care. The law is written in other countries' experiences, it is commendable to consult with others, perhaps they also sought a Portuguese model because the working group during the draft of this Law went on a study trip, we may have a Portuguese model. However, this Law may need our existing and potential foster parents, this Law must function well in Croatia and accept the condition it is found in Croatia in the application of this Act. The law is not like the one that was brought before did not pass a quality public debate, so at least those who deal with the team say because the proposer did not leave enough time for it, it is an emergency procedure again now. In a non-normal part of the Law, the Proposer argues that this law will allow for faster and better quality development of the institution. That's what we've heard from the previous debates. I'm not sure. We don't think so. Here's why. According to existing data, the number of household users is in decline. It's a lot harder to run something that's allowed to start collapsing? Whether there was a new Social Care Act waiting to begin to popularize foster care. It's one space that's lost time. Then the prescribed conditions that must be met by a professional foster parent are such that it can be freely claimed that the number of interested parties that meet will be able to count on their fingers. In addition, a 5.5,000 kuna salary was mentioned. Who's going to leave some other job or go to work for it? So let's see what a professional foster parent should look like on this proposal. I quote the law: "The expert in the field of social work, social pedagogy, logopedia, psychology, education, rehabilitation, working therapy, educational medicine and the professional worker in the social care activity who has been trained to provide specialized additional services to the user. Have at least completed high school education, have prescribed housing and material conditions to carry out foster care. It must achieve its own means of restraint." This is all wonderful and wonderful, but I don't know who's going to answer, if we're going to have a chance at all to have candidates for professional foster parents. We agree that a person who takes care of people with severe disability, children with severe behavioural disorders or children who are severely traumatized by family violence must have appropriate care. But who of the existing foster parents can currently meet these requirements? But if you consider that in the region that I used to talk about, for example, most people are also focused on those who have excess living space and spatial capacity to actually put themselves on the tourist market during the season because it is just unfortunately more cost-effective to him as objectively as possible. How do you expect these people to turn to foster care under the existing rigid conditions prescribed by this law? The solution offered in this case is to place a child in another most likely remote county where foster care is popularized and we have seen that there is, where there is a tradition of fostering children. But then children lose contact with their biological family, lose constant contact with the social care center that is in their place of origin and which is with them and their biological families should work to remove the deficiencies or to work on meditation to get that child back to his biological family as soon as possible. Also in our society, these very profiles of experts are mostly deficiting professions. Do you think that someone on the labour market as a deficit profession will be able to make very good incomes, however, decide on the 24th hour care of a seriously ill child. This law also provides professional foster parents with the possibility to work elsewhere in short four-hour working hours. Do you think that's possible? For such examples of life, it was enough to ask mothers who care for their children the hardest 24 hours a day and find it difficult to find a free moment to go to a doctor themselves, let alone get a part - time job. So this law does not answer the question of how to increase the number of foster parents how to interest young people in this form of childcare, how to popularise foster care in regions because this institute is not yet recognized? In short, according to its concepts and regulations, is it doubtful whether it is going towards the best interests of the users or to the Proposer only represents another obligation to carry out? After the Law on Social Welfare, another law that must be dealt with. I hope that we will see this in individual debates. Now I'd still like to be explained some of the articles. We have article 15. 4. I think it's an unfortunate formulation, correct me if I'm wrong, where it says that a professional foster parent can work in incomplete working hours in other activities in the rest of his working hours. Before I mentioned speculating with working hours when it comes to foster work, I think it is extremely inappropriate because this job by its kind cannot, must not be, can not be predicted to be a restriction, the classical division of free working time in children or child care is not. Will you let me make any more suggestions? Here's a very short one. Thank you very much. And then, when we have the right of foster parents, I think it's an article 41, if it's possible to add the right to sick leave, let's say, then the right to leave at the time of child adjustment, the right to the advantage of enrolment in kindergarten, the right to maternity care if a child is taken very little, the right to maternity care. Then it's Article 47 where it writes the obligations of the institution. I think we should still take care of the office and give funds for prom and then for small schools that are mandatory then that these are mandatory school trips etc. I can see that my time is obvious. So I'm very sorry that he's not going into another law reading to actually discuss all these shortcomings with the profession. We don't doubt at the SDP club that the law is necessary and necessary, of course it is. However, I wonder in the end how many of our fellow citizens know what foster parents are. Therefore, it is necessary to work on sensitising the public through broad campaigns, but before the law is passed rather than waiting for the law to work on the popularity of foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77615	Okay. Time's up. Thank you very much, Madam Representative. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would be much happier if the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament would allow me a replica, but I have to correct one quote from the representative lady when she says that we do not have enough training experts. This is indeed incorrect because I will tell you one thing the promoter did not mention and gave in power and great responsibility in fact entrusted the team of experts at the Social Care Centre or under the new Social Care Act of the institution in the centre of the county that is obliged to prepare the foster home, to monitor the provision of services it provides to its host. Also train him, give him professional support and do a supervisory work. It is very important that this role is actually of the institution and its experts, and I personally keep knowing this work and working for many years I hold that we have qualified experts for this kind of really fostering. There may be opportunities in the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77617	Thank you very much. This is the end of the club debate. There's an individual debate coming up. The first of the five reported is a respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to join those who support the adoption of this law that really stems from the reform of social care, that is, the Law on Social Care, which is exactly the obligation to pass a law like this. The reform of social care is also based on the deinstitutionalisation of social care homes and stopping the construction of large-scale children's accommodation institutions. In our country, indeed, a large number of children are located in institutions that are seen from the very reason of this law we have 71 state homes, 14 for children and youth without adequate parental care with 782 users, 11 for children and youth with problems with behavior with 147 users, 28 for children, for adults, 24 non-state homes, 2 for children and youth without adequate parental care with 188 users etc., etc. The definition itself is when, despite the institution’s efforts, it is not possible to ensure that children stay in their biological families or return to their parents after a certain period of time outside the family, the state is obliged to provide family care. There is, of course, the most appropriate adoption and foster family. The foster family, I am very glad that this law provides for a register of foster families, and of course, it is not even a matter of adoption of this law, but I would point out that a large number of parents are interested in adoption and that married couples without children send a lot of enquiries to welfare centres, so to over 180 centres that rarely any of them get an answer. It might be good to make a family register that wants to adopt children and that is transparent, to know exactly which home they can adopt, which are families, which are in order etc., etc., that they do not have to seek a relationship to adopt a child. Many legislative frameworks and national plans work on children's rights and children's interests. I am particularly pleased with the plan that by the end of 2012 in cooperation with alternative care providers will fully deinstitutionalise children from three years of age. If we do that, it'll be a great success. The exception will be only occasional accommodation for a maximum duration of six months with the aim of rapid identification of adequate permanent family-type care. The average duration of accommodation for children in homes is four years. It's a really long time, even though it used to be even more. However, the lack of knowledge of family life has resulted in, for example, a study that showed that young mothers grow up in homes, and later they do not know how to care for their children, so their children end up the same in institutions. Hence, this results in the importance of a child’s accommodation in the family. It's not just this law-advertised family and propaganda that's run for foster care and family. You remember that already in 2005 under the auspices of Mrs Kosor UNICEF presented a campaign "every child needs a family". So it's not from today, since the adoption of this law. What I would like to stress is actually developing awareness of the need for fostering and regional unification. What the colleague herself said, you have areas in Croatia where really fostering is developed, Varazdin, northwestern Croatia, the area around Vrbovac. Ten, 15 years ago, you had foster families of five, six children. It is good that today it is limited to number three, or adult four. But the problem is that, say, in Dalmatia, you have no developed awareness of the foster family. I think she set an example where one child in the home expressed a desire to settle into one family, but in his region they couldn't find a foster family, and so he refused to be somewhere else in another county so he wouldn't separate himself from his relatives from his family. It is very important and specialized foster care for children with developmental difficulties, with behavioral disorders given the specificity of health and education needs because simply without one education you cannot even deal with such a child. In that sense, I would also welcome the professionalization of foster care that will lead to really I think of a greater interest because it seems to someone 5,000 kunas a little, but if in that sense you are professionalizing and having love for children then it is a lot to you rather than a little. Traditional foster care really exists with us, but the foster parents themselves who traditionally do so are already quite late in years, the truth is that they are not educated, that they are mostly persons with primary school, therefore they too point to the need for professional help and must indeed play a great role in training such families. Studies have indeed shown that children located in a foster family achieve a high level of psychosocial function, have built a positive picture of themselves, high self - confidence, and high self - respect. So this tells us all how much it takes to place a child in a family, how important it is to take care of a child, how important an interdisciplinary approach to coordination is, both at regional and national level, and I just think that way we can succeed. And this law, with all the other measures that we have national policies for people with disabilities and others, can only contribute to raising awareness of the need to foster children, not to put them in institutions such as homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77619	Thank you. Replica has a respected representative, Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Caparin, you've said nicely that one of the intensities is, namely, the obligation of this law to have children up to three years of age by July 2012, so no more babies should be in institutions. So in the homes of social care rather than having to be placed in the family. And I hope that this adoption of this Household Act will create all the assumptions that this goal that we set ourselves by adopting the Social Care Act will be solved. And we heard on the Committee on Health and Social Care that at this point in Croatia 73 children are up to 3 years old in social care homes, which in this way now according to the existing network of centres for, existing centres for social care would be one child per center, that is, in this area. And now, my colleague Caparin, I link it to that problem that we're all talking about here because you touched it in your debate, and that uneven distribution of this foster home in all parts of Croatia. I will present my example of Brod-Posavina County only two cities, 160,000 inhabitants of Nova Gradiška cover some 50 thousand inhabitants. So, the town with the surrounding area has a foster home, a tradition of foster care for over 40 years and hundreds of families who have been in foster care so far. And unlike the area covered by the Centre for Social Care Slavonski Brod, which has only 8 families who are foster parents for children of which 5 are related, and only 3 are non-native and only 12 children are located. I therefore think that today's debate and the adoption of this Household Act is, in addition to all that the ministry is doing together with UNICEF, what the fostering associations are doing is encouraging and creating the assumption that fostering in Croatia is living in that way in the interests of children, or users who need foster care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77621	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica has a respected representative, Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77622	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, I worship those families who have been in foster care for years. They're really great families that don't do it for money, because that money they get is only for children and not for their profits. However, I also pointed out that these are families that are on average 60 years of age. You must know that and you know I believe that those children who went into foster care were mostly poor children without the possibility of existence, and what they are today is that children who have experienced violence, abuse, trauma and need a completely different approach precisely to this Law, which is the specialization and professionalization of foster parents because it is truly understood a multidisciplinary approach to such children and cooperation at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77623	Thank you very much. It's the honorary representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, there's no doubt we need a new Household Act. The foster care system in Croatia really needs to be changed and developed and it needs to be transformed whatever it is, but something needs to be done with it anyway. A large number of children in institutions are still unwarranted in Croatia. The ratio that we were seeking and which we plotted in the National Plan for the Rights and Interest of Children from 2006 to 2012 is 80 versus 20. So, 80% of foster children and only 20% in institutions. There are too few people who choose foster care. There are regions where foster care practically doesn't exist at all. So you need to build a foster home network. They need quality, professional support. So, education and supervisory. It is necessary to develop different categories. Abuse should be prevented, child abuse should be prevented, etc. etc. So we need to pass a quality law that will respond well to the needs we have. So there's no question that we need a new law. It is only a question of whether this is a good enough law and whether it provides answers to all the questions we have and whether it provides or whether it meets all the needs we have. I believe the proposing's intentions were good. Thus, it strives to provide children with one more humane, one more natural life - style for growing up and rearing. And there are numerous and truly irrefutable evidence that indicates that children do not develop properly unless they have a family environment and that only in the family environment can they learn what is common family everyday life has to do with support and belonging. I'd say this could have even been a good law. You're giving him an emergency procedure, though, which I don't understand. I don't think there's any excuse for that. But there's nothing you can do about it. My key observation of this Law and the fundamental lack of law is the inability to implement in many of its segments. So, I think that's the essential problem with this law. And why he can't be good after all. And implementation is actually a purpose. At least that's how it should be. What we need is a law we can't implement that we can't apply. So who is it written for if it can't be applied? And any public policy should actually respond to needs and problems. And the real need and real problems at the moment when we talk about this problem in Croatia is that we do not have enough number of foster parents. And now the question is whether this law will help increase the number of foster parents in Croatia. The ones we see today from various analyses are too old and uneducated. Over 50% of the foster parents are schoolless, and that's actually our reality. So I ask the question of what has the current policy done in the last seven years to make the foster home in Croatia more? Which is why the current policy has made it possible to create a network of foster parents. Without it, there is no implementation of this law. And who thinks otherwise I think she's guilty. So it's hard to support that one I'd say the reverse logic that disrupted the order of law enforcement. Was it not logical to first create preconditions for the application of the law? So, the key prerequisite for law enforcement is that you created a network of foster parents, and you don't have a foster home network, or without it, this law is simply a dead letter on paper. If there's not enough foster parents, and there's no law in practice zero. So, to have a situation like we have today on the ground, to force foster care, and that's what this law now does. So there is no transitional period, and the law requires foster care. So it's not only wrong but by my deep conviction it can also be fatal for a child. So, we don't play dice, it's about children's fates. In a situation like this, foster parents should be recommended, which should be sought, but not forced. And the law does, and I wonder whose interest it is. I can give you an example of a young mother who, for example, She just gave birth to a child in Rijeka, so there are no foster parents in the Primorje-Gorski County, even if you were looking for him, you wouldn't find him, the mother is unemployed, extremely poor social status, she wants to take care of the child, so she wants to be with him. But right now there's no conditions, no job, no roof over his head, and no money. What will a social worker do by upholding this law? They'll send a child 300, 400 km from the mother who wants that child. So how will a mother maintain and develop an emotional relationship with a child? How's he even gonna get to him? So, are you aware of what this means for the child and mother's future relationship? So I set an example, or very strong reason why this will not be a good law regardless of its potential and noble intentions. Here's another reason why I think it's like that, side no. Article 15 – professional foster care. We've been great at regulation, so that's what we needed. But did you do it right? I don't think so. I don't think that's well done because you define that a professional foster parent can be an expert in the field and you list, so it's hard not to agree with you that an educated and professional person is needed to provide children with disabilities who need 24-hour care, but my question is, what does it prove to be an expert? What does an expert in the area mean? Is that a high-level expert? Is that a senior expert? Is that supposed to be a doctorate of science? If you were here to mean that you had to have a college first, it's absurd, and second, you were bound to do it here and say it. Or to be more specific, to make it simpler for you, please answer my question if a nurse can be a professional foster parent? I would conclude from this article that she can't do that. And if I'm right, then why can't I ask you? And based on which parameters you have concluded that the mother who gave birth to a child with a severe disability and who is cared for 24 hours a day, and not a medical profession knows more than a nurse or technician. So that's what I'm very interested in, so I'm asking you to answer that question. If you find this expert in the area, etc. Is that what a college graduate means, so that means we can say goodbye to professional foster parents right now. It means such rigorous conditions that no one will be able to satisfy them. This means that the conditions for professional foster parents are such that they will practically not be. But now the question is, is that what you wanted? Did you really want professional foster parents not to be? I don't know, I don't know if you really think that the social workers who are the deficiting profession in Croatia will be thrilled to work for this 5.5,000 kuna job anyway. I don't think that's what you meant. And in the follow-up to the same article in paragraph 2, you're also inaccurate, you say children with greater difficulties. Well, it's not possible that you can't define what major difficulties these are. You say children with severe disability. So is it possible that you are unable to define what it is to be disabled with the fact that there is an official classification of the type of disability. So, I think this is how you leave space for both manipulation and abuse. In my view, then, the essence of this law is foster families and professional staff. We don't even have foster families, and we don't have teamed centres, or seduced, so we don't have enough expert personnel to carry out what the law says. In conclusion, you will create a problem in the field because there will also be those who do not respect the law, and today many provisions violate it because there is no logic and because it opposes the interests of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77625	Thank you very much. It's two replicas. First Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we agree that when you say that the needs are great, the foster parents are small, the number of foster parents, or even the professional staff, are reduced, everything is questionable. She would also say we can all agree here that of course that we are all for extra-institutional care because the child in the institution is also on the one hand expensive, and such accommodation very often can come, is harmful to the child. Therefore, it is of course in our best interests to enable the child to be placed in the family. However, in this way with all the conditions set, I think we will not be able to achieve the goal we all want together, but I will set an example for Slovenia here when they have a special commission that assesses a very positive long-term experience. They look at excellence in it, look at the model, choose the model foster parent. So they even award a special, special commission award to a model foster parent. Now that's what we've been saying since the beginning that we should have worked on sensitization to prepare for this law. Of course, the law should, but it should make it possible for the law to be applied, that is, to achieve this goal which, of course, we all agree together that it should be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77627	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica has a respected representative, Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77628	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you are on the trail of what I said, and that is the problem of implementation. So it's no problem to pass the law, but there must be a condition for the law to be implemented. It's not bad that we take solutions from other countries, it's just a shame we don't take their good practice. It is a shame that in some segments we have looked up to Slovenian practice and legislation, but we have also taken some extremely bad parts. And I really wonder if we've brought provisions for professional foster parents just like that because we don't even want to have professional foster parents because we can't provide financial resources. Too bad that from neighbouring countries, here's another very good example and it's related to the implementation and problem of personnel who probably won't be able to track everything that the Law proposes. In Serbia, they were able to put into office the Centre for Family Accommodation, which has heavily relieved the work of the social care centre. I'm surprised we didn't predict anything similar to our legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77629	Thank you very much. And the second is the replica that Neda Klaric has for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague I really don't want to be rude to you in any way but I really have to say in this replica that this law is really going to get a lot better results than the law we've had so far that was first passed in 2007. The truth is also that we could mainly talk about traditional family foster care. The law we're talking about is completely different, and I agree, however, the truth is that it actually makes me wonder about your question, you're a scientist, so it creates any doubt that these are personnel from the field of social work, logodia, psychology, educational rehabilitation or work therapy. I think it's much clearer to you than you stated in your individual debate but it's also interesting and we should stress that the possibility of professional fostering can work professionally with people having the right to their salary providing them with the right to pay just as much as compensation for fosterers for their needs and for their lifetime. And on the third hand, we have the possibility that this professional foster parent is doing it as a secondary activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77631	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica has a representative, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Klaric, thank you for teaching me that experts from the domain of social care. I'd like to say the following on your line. The unfortunate children in Croatia are very much. Bad parents who didn't deserve these children are even more, those who want to adopt children in Croatia is also very much. So if you are interested in the welfare of the child, or if you can, I ask you to use your authority and do everything in your power to abolish the provision of the Law that says that parents do not take custody of the child until at least one time in three months answers the phone and asks if the child is alive. Here, you'd do a lot for foster care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77633	Thank you very much. We are continuing an individual debate, a respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the foster home institute, as many colleagues have already mentioned here today. It's a social welfare law recently passed in this House of Commons. Article 260(3) provides that the specific law will regulate the conditions to be met by the foster family, the way in which foster care is carried out and agreed and other issues related to foster care. Here, we have before us the Household Act which I personally think is a good law and I think it will certainly be of great benefit when we talk about deinstitutionalization. Households are defined as a form of care outside their own family, which provides a child or an adult with accommodation for the foster family, and this Act provides conditions, this Law categorizes foster families in view of relatives and other criteria, authorisation procedures, training, supervision, rights and obligations of foster parents, users of institutions, etc. We heard in the opening statement of the secretary of state when he mentioned that just over 250 users of people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties are currently in foster families. My opinion is that this is what I will say to a relatively large number, but since we are all in favour of better and better quality deinstitutionalisation, I believe that this law will achieve the purpose of making as few children with developmental difficulties as possible and disabled persons located in one of the institutions of social care, of course when possible. We need to know that this category is not always possible, so I am now based only on children with developmental difficulties, persons with disabilities that it is not always possible to place them in foster families or perhaps in some regular systems of education, but that they especially need an institution for many reasons, most often it is the weight of disability, which is certainly easier to say in some way, less sense when a child is located in one of the institutions. I mean experts who are in institutions and are further educated in relations with children with developmental difficulties and with people with disabilities. In view of the needs of the user, foster care in this law can be traditional, specialized, urgent and occasional. Furthermore, when we talk about foster status, according to this Law, this Law distinguishes related, non-similar and professional foster care. I think that this professional foster care will apply, by law, to persons with disabilities not only to them but also to many others. But it is very important that these experts who are listed in this professional foster care who can deal with this type of foster care to know their job well, because when it comes to people with disabilities, don't forget that we still have a lot, a lot of cases today when someone decides to take a person with disabilities into their family. There were such examples, but such individuals returned to institutions precisely because families were not educated, they did not know what to do with such users, and in a few cases there were abuses of such children. So I think that really such foster families should be educated and professional when talking about professional foster care. When it comes to the weight of damage or the weight of disability, then I believe that it is not necessary or I am sure that we cannot regulate it by this law since it is absolutely certain that the unique body of art will most precisely be able to deal with it. So when it determines what disability is and who is a disabled person, such a unique body of art will also be able to say what is more difficult than disability and when it is necessary for the weight of disability and for the sake of their own family opportunities to be placed in a foster family. In any case, I am convinced that this law will certainly contribute to the deinstitutionalisation of all persons in any need, especially children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities, to which the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities obliges us. So this is one of the rules that contributes to deinstitutionalization which I think is certainly useful and here I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77635	I thank Mrs. Representatives. Replica has a respected representative, Tatja Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77636	Thank you very much. You mentioned various examples of how families care or foster parents are people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Of course there are and I welcome them this time and I know them personally. However, I would say that I am not sure whether or not we are going to find professionals who will do this kind of foster care. Why? Well, they've never been in foster care before. On the other hand, they may rightly assess that other ways of employment can be not only to provide themselves more. Let's put it aside, but on the other hand they're more socially useful because as professionals they can provide more than one person or so. Therefore, I doubt at all whether we will be able to find such people who will be foster parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77637	Thank you very much. And the individual debate will end, and perhaps not the esteemed representative of Kozlevac Dino. He's gone. Then we'll ask the esteemed Secretary of State, Ante Zvonimir Golem, for a final review on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77638	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So I have to say that I'm expressing a little regret in part of today's debate because I'm going to say that many of the things that have been said here today will certainly not contribute to the development of foster care. The data discussed during today’s debates are accurate in the part that was presented but also not all that would give the right light to that data. So I'll just remind myself that in 2004, when the Household Act was changed to when a single foster parent could have 10 users, when it was reduced to up to 3 foster children or up to 4 adults, then a good part of the foster parents were reregistered to family homes. Thus, it was not a householder’s fall, but a change in the way of providing certain care. I must also say that all day in the debate mentions this professional foster care as something that will endanger the existence of foster care in Croatia, not taking into account at all that we have three kinds of foster care. So we have a relative and non-native foster care which, like today and that professional foster care is exactly the one that requires very high expertise and which will require very high work. And it is clear that there are criteria for such a thing and ultimately when you want to mention such solutions in the world, and on the other hand, you have to say about what is clear and loud about what was here at one point and the media alarmed families that are now engaged in foster care. The provision referred to therein shall be obtained both in non-similar and related foster care in a given part, not in its related foster care. Because we bring the professionalization of foster care to special categories of users, not whether or not the user will have the right to supply. Therefore, all those who received today clearly say from this pay phone supply to users which is a matter means users who had in foster care will continue to receive. It is not professionalisation of those who receive supplies, and those who do not receive professionalisation in relation to the service provider, and the user has the right to his supply. So surely these are just some of the parameters that speak for this debate will not contribute to a little popularity. I have to say that just as I was a little freaked out by the fact that, for example, this law would ensure that a child is sent 300 km from my mother, which would be very, very bad for the child, I absolutely agree. However, just as we have today, we have today not to send to another foster family 300 km but to Nazorovo, but to another institution, which is probably an even worse solution than it was the solution that if there was a situation that could not be in the foster home family, in the local environment, which would absolutely put the first priority in the area environment that might go to another county as one of the options, but certainly better than the institution. I also have to say that simply, some things have been dealt with on the Health Committee, and I'm going to do it again here. We have a problem, let's not keep mixing up the concepts of adoption and foster care. We have a family law to adopt. The problem with contact with parents, taking away parental care is a matter of family law, is actually a matter of adoption. No need to take care of anyone in order for the child to be fostered to be completely different categories. And to talk about the problem of fostering just by calling a mother once in three months, these are adoption problems and we're solving these problems and we're going to solve it, but it's not the subject of this, so we don't need to put it in the context of the Household Act. For this simple reason, what I would say in the end, the Household Law will certainly give a boost and certainly is not the only thing to be done to popularize foster care and certainly that many other things appear that may not be visible to people at first sight. But if we have said that we will do deinstitutionalisation, we have a large number of interested professional workers in our institutions who, when given this way, are able to make professional foster care that will decide on such a thing, by the more our institutions in their transformation will stop providing stationary service and providing care for such children is already a service of professional assistance, and the possibility is that people working in these institutions can also start foster families, can deal with professional foster care. Since it's really a law that's pretty comprehensive, it's a lot of newspapers, I said in the opening statement that we're going to accept amendments to the Committee on Law, we also think that the essence of the law is not changing but that things can be strengthened. On behalf of the promoter, they would also accept amendments to the HNS, HSU and Danica Hurse Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77639	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this final bill. We'll vote on him when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77640	We move on to the Final Proposal for Household Law. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 859. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by Danica Hursa. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. So, I am voting on the final draft of the Household Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstention, 34 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77641	Now we're going to do one more item on the agenda today, and that's - The final proposal of the law on public procurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 865 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This final proposal shall be subject to an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. Rules of Procedure. You also know that an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law and that amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received reports from the board at the session. The amendments have been submitted so far by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Jozo Sarac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is a proposal for a new law on public procurement whose adoption represents an important step forward in improving the overall public procurement system in Croatia. The total value of public procurement in 2009 was 40.6 million, and in 2010, it was €24.8 billion, thus representing a significant factor in the overall economic activity of the Republic of Croatia. The area of public procurement has been significantly improved over the past few years through the implementation of the applicable Public Procurement Act, however, this very dynamic area requires continued further improvements, and all with a fundamental objective of implementing as effective public procurement procedures with respect to fundamental principles, which is competition, equal treatment, prohibition of discrimination and transparency. The first objective is to further comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, and what Croatia has taken as its commitment as part of its activities in the closure of the negotiations in Chapter 5-public procurement and therefore I would like to ask that, given this first objective, we take particular account of the fact that we have installed only what is important and consistent with the European Union's liquids. Another key objective in drawing up this bill is the introduction of new legislative solutions that will make the experience of a number of stakeholders in the implementation of the current law as best as possible. It is primarily several thousand Croatian and economic operators. Therefore, this multiannual practice, which pointed to the need for amendments in force at the implementation of the applicable law, will primarily allow for more efficient public procurement procedures, which will facilitate their application and implementation by the contracting authorities, as well as participation by economic operators. The most important mechanisms whose introduction is planned through this bill, which we have seen during the debate in the adoption of this public procurement law, are the removal of all unnecessary administrative barriers that have made it difficult to implement in the process so far, but have also linked costs to the contracting authorities, and especially to economic operators. The provision is therefore introduced that all documents required by the contracting entity can be delivered in an unconfirmed file, while the original documents will be requested exclusively from the successful bidder and this amendment we consider that we have significantly reduced the total costs of participation in the procedures for economic operators, but we have also reduced the time needed to collect all necessary documents, which is very important for the economic operators. The important newspaper to be introduced is also related to access to documentation for competition. Namely, in the open procurement procedure, the contracting authorities will be required to make the documentation for the competition unlimited and to place it entirely electronically available in the electronic public procurement notice. The above provision will therefore allow for full transparency of all competition documents in the open procurement procedure used in over 80% of cases in the Republic of Croatia and will reduce the costs that are now linked to copying, sending and downloading the necessary documentation by the contracting authorities and interested economic operators. So far, Croatia's customers have almost exclusively used the lowest price criteria even though they have had the opportunity and the most economically favourable offer, however, it was extremely rare. With a view to equating these two criteria, this proposal for a law on contracting authorities is abolished by the obligation to draw up reports on the reasons for applying the selection criteria on the basis of the most economically favourable offer and has been recorded in practice as an administrative obstacle which has led to an impossible situation in the application of this criterion. In this way, the current trend will change, so the examples work. All one and a half percent of all public procurement wastes on the most economically favourable offer. The European Union does not even have similar cases of demand, so the preliminary report on the reasons for applying this criterion, and the comparisons from Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden show that 80% of public procurement is precisely on the criteria of the most economically favourable offer. The bill also introduces mechanisms that will have an important impact on the current problems of the economic sector in Croatia. Participation in procedures will also allow economic operators who are granted a delay in paying their tax obligations and pension insurance obligations which will be of great importance to a number of economic operators who are currently in difficulty due to the economic crisis. It also foresees more significant positive consequences for the economy in order to be achieved through the provisions relating to subcontractors. In accordance with the proposed provisions, the contracting authority will directly pay the subcontractor the goods, works and services provided by the subcontractor. This will therefore address the frequent problem of non-payment of subcontractors, which is particularly present in the construction sector, and in particular affects small and medium-sized businessmen, and this has been a common cause of shutting down economic operators, the removal of many jobs, and the withdrawal in one of the non-payment chains that we have detected in the Commission for detecting the problem of individence. In order to achieve the quality of public procurement contracts for the contracting authority, it is important to exclude the procurement process of economic operators or economic operators that committed certain professional failures. It is therefore defined in this proposal. For example, as a professional failure, a failure made by an economic operator in carrying out its activity is also determined by acting against the relevant regulations, rules of the profession or collective contract. For example, it has the work of workers without employment contracts, unreported workers, non-payment of pension insurance, non-payment of minimum wages. So that's where we defined certain professional failures. The part in which the practice pointed out the need for certain amendments is the system of legal protection in public procurement procedures. A large part of the novel also refers to harmonisation with the provisions of the legal acquis of the European Union, but also to the simultaneous objective of the real, fast and effective protection of the rights of economic operators at the stage of the proceedings when illegality can still be corrected in time, thus eliminating appeal proceedings in some later stages. Accordingly, compensation for the appeal procedure has been increased, and in particular for the procurement process of very high-valued values, as the practice so far has pointed to a large number of complaints which were exclusively aimed at stopping, i.e. the intentional blockade of public procurement procedures, and not real protection, so the rights of a specific economic operator, which increased the risk of certain corrupt actions. In particular, when increasing the fee, it was taken into account that this complaint was made possible, so that small and medium-sized economic operators where this fee was extremely little adjusted upwards while the fees for the proceedings were also made available for the payment of compensation by groups of items of compensation, items of purchase, and not only for the whole acquisition. An important impact on the effectiveness of the appeal proceedings will have to do with amendments to the provisions relating to significant infringements of the law in which certain difficulties have been observed in the current legal solution, and, under the proposal of the law, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the appeal procedure will act within the limits of the complaint allegations, and will, by official duty, take care of the significant infringements committed during the procedure in which the appeal was made. So what will significantly speed up the time that has so far been making complaints at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. For example, a complaint is being introduced on the tender documentation and it can be expressed exclusively until the moment the offer is opened which we have so far had exactly the opposite cases because at the end of the opening of the offer and after choosing the best bidder, so the complaints would be lodged on the tender tender tender itself. A great deal of attention in drawing up the draft law is also given to improving provisions related to the prevention of conflicts of interest, and are prescribed for both the heads of the bodies and the members of both the boards of directors and supervisory boards, as well as the authorised representatives of the contracting authorities as well as other persons who have had an impact on a particular procedure. We know that 20 % of the ownership of business shares, i.e. other rights, in the current legal solution, has been reduced to 0.5%, with which we consider that we have significantly reduced the possibility of conflict of interest, and in the end it was also one of the European directives and provisions of our Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Enhancing transparency will also contribute to the obligation to publish procurement plans and contract registers on the website of the contracting authorities. The publication of the procurement plan will enable all interested economic operators to take into account the specific needs of the contracting authority for the following period at one place and the publication of the contract register to the interested public shall, therefore, enable easy access to information on the execution of those contracts. Otherwise, we have adopted amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and we believe that the implementation of the new Public Procurement Act will allow further progress of the public procurement system through the achievement of the basic objectives, which is the implementation of more effective procedures for the contracting authorities, and simpler participation in the procedures for economic operators. Otherwise, this Act provides for the adoption of 4 regulations and 4 regulations which will more precisely define certain articles of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77643	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I ask the representatives, the committee's rapporteurs, will any of them take their word? I don't see anyone. Therefore, we can proceed with the debate. I'm opening a debate. We're going clubbing. On behalf of the HNS club, HSU respected representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. This completely new large and legal, extensive and detailed legislative proposal has 188 articles, 17 additions, 21 powers for the adoption of individual signatures and covers one very important matter, one very important area. It is a law that is in line with EU legislation and has one pearl, I will say immediately at the beginning, which is that it is worth from 1 January 2012, that some provisions and some articles are in force when we enter the EU, but some provisions and some articles are in force within 8 days of publication in the National Journal. This in other words means that certain provisions will be in force of the legislative proposal, which has been in force since 1 January 2012, if I have understood that correctly. Well, if the amendments were settled, then I ask, and what did you write if it was supposed to be settled with the amendments? Namely, why am I saying that? This legislative proposal is a first-of-the-art, bureaucratized, slows down the public procurement process, information from people who deal with public procurement in public enterprises every day are struggling and they probably had communication with you, if not, it's not good if you didn't have communication. And a legal proposal to try something with a law that does not lex specialis solve all black holes in the overall public procurement system. In particular, Article 18(1) and (2) – new thresholds for procedures, it is okay to bring this into line with European thresholds, however, nowhere is it specified because they are harmonised every 2 years when, in which way, information, where, why, for which reason, in addition to the principle provision. Article 18(9) is completely unnecessary because this article allows tenderers to manipulate the price of the offer because the contracting authority does not have at all the possibility of placing in the market position its public procurement in the event of such regulation. Because everyone knows right away at the beginning his main asset, and that's the intended means, and it also gives the offerers the opportunity to associate with something we usually call cartels, because this information that you, on which you insist on entering a public procurement notice, already exists in the procurement plan. Therefore, we do not see the reason why this is necessary with this information to be made public. Article 20(4), (5) and (6) is completely unnecessary because these data also exist in competent authorities and there is also the possibility of using such data maliciously and, in any event, business data which do not need to be made public. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Furthermore, there is so much that I am trying to put up my discussion in 15 minutes and I have no opportunity to explain it, but since you know what you wrote about it and you understand our attitude. Article 31(2), (4) and (5) why it is necessary to ensure that all possible documentation is fully available, which is the same as the wording must be made available electronically. What about contracting authorities who can't put all the documentation in electronic form? It's a case of old designs, drawings, floorwork or some other documentation, and there's no data. Furthermore, the deadlines for the delivery of tenders as from the date of the amendment of the tendering documentation are too long since small changes to the tender documentation are possible which do not significantly affect the making of the offer. So the whole story's getting longer. Article 38(6) of the Framework Agreement, why up to 4 years if there are several economic operators and only 2 years if one is an economic operator? With only one economic operator and one or more variants, the public procurement contract is concluded with only one economic operator. Also, category of valid offer. What's a valid offer? Nowhere in the law does it say that it definitely causes one legal uncertainty. Article 44(1) and (8) is an unclear link of these two paragraphs, the request for the collection of tenders must be made available 60 days from the date of publication and the time limit for the delivery of tenders shall not be less than 15 days from the publication of the application. And we're cutting public procurement deadlines with this bill? Furthermore, Article 62(1) considers that the 40-day deadline is too long because the current Public Procurement Act is shorter than this draft, and yet the public procurement process is quite long and in practice often creates problems. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, paragraph 7 states that the successful tenderer may change subcontractors during the execution of the Public Procurement Treaty. And now the question is, how is that prefected to a public procurement contract? Does this mean that every subcontractor change will also change the contract? Furthermore, what about the evidence of the capacity given to subcontractors in the offer on the basis of which the contract was concluded and will the ability to prove itself subsequently during the performance of the contracts and for new subcontractors be proved? Article 86(3) and (5) if the contracting authority is to be able to pay the subcontractor directly on the basis of a certified invoice or situation, and what about the contractor? Since it continues to comply with paragraph 1 of the same article, the participation of the subcontractor shall not affect the responsibility of the tenderer for the execution of the Public Procurement Treaty. So now it's my question who's in charge of the situation, the bill? Because if such a direct payment obligation is introduced to subcontractors, there will be major misunderstandings in practice. Who, on the basis of what rights and responsibilities is responsible for the quality and quantity of the goods delivered, the works carried out or the provision of services? What if he refuses to give consent? Therefore, it tries to solve something directly between the contracting authorities and subcontractors in terms of payment, definitely opens up one space and possible corruption, and tries to say something that is not solved by this Law but solved by one well-designed economic policy, the obligation to pay for something that has been ordered. We at HNS have already sent you a bill on several occasions where we asked that a public partner when making a contract to his partner service provider give one instrument in terms of a guarantee of payment. This one's got to give you 6, 7, 8 guarantees, I think it's minimum courtesy for a public partner to give just one. And that's what the contract specifies that the payment then and then and at that time to secure it with the payment instrument. The fact that the job holder will not pay the subcontractor I don't think it's reasonable enough and I don't think this article solves the problem in practice. Article 144(2) instead of simplifying the procedure before the State Commission, in particular as regards the conduct of official duties, has again been attempted or failed to define the concept of material infringement of the public procurement law in a way that calls for inappropriate or incorrect application of the provisions of the source of law. What is all the source of law? Namely, the fact that the Republic of Croatia has one extremely large number of appeal procedures and, accordingly, the cancellation of public procurement procedures. Therefore, the objective of this new Law should be to reduce the appeal procedures for the cancellation of procurement procedures, to simplify the implementation of public procurement procedures and appeal procedures, to accelerate and to make economic progress rather than to return to the slow and bureaucratic system. Article 146, 147, 148(3) and Article 149(3) are the deadlines for making complaints which we consider to be too long in the HNS HSU Club. For example, the appeal within 30 days of the date of publication of the contract notice shall be too long for legal protection. For whoever is interested in the procurement process will use that right before. Therefore, if they really want to speed up the procurement procedures, then we feel that these deadlines should be shortened or should be shortened. With the fact that the deadlines are relatively well regulated in the applicable public procurement law, however, only a more precise definition of only certain moments starting to run on the appeal rather than unnecessarily complicated to define the deadlines. Furthermore, Article 152 of the appeal deadline from the adoption of a decision on the conclusion of a contract under the framework agreement, we at the HNS HSU Club consider it unnecessary to bureaucratise the procedure. Because this encourages the contracting authority to enter into framework agreements and, in any event, it turns out that it is better to go directly to the contract in view of the multiple legal protection at each stage of the procedure and by signing a framework agreement which should make the procedure somewhat flexible and there is a deadline of 30 days again. In any case, and not only in this article but in many so far, we believe that this Law should have been brought closer to the principles and principles of the market and competition to the extent possible and not to bring it down to the regiment and law in the field of administrative law. Article 167 of the State Commission has the right to annul a contract or framework agreement. Now the question is what should be done after the contract is already in effect, for example, to refute the lawsuit, whether a lawsuit is happening to the state commission again. And finally, regardless of the fact that this legislative proposal is to a large extent a alignment with the legislation of the European Union, whatever the legal proposal gives us the obligation to apply certain legal solutions when we enter the European Union. Since we are entering the European Union on 1 July 2013, we at the HNS HSU Club do not see any reason why we are in haste with this law, that we are only going to go to one reading with this law, and if we conclude that this legislative proposal goes into two readings, that all the remarks that have been made in this legislative proposal are to be corrected until the second reading and if our joint proposal by the HNS HSU Club and the SDP Club is accepted to go to the second reading we at the HNS HSU Club will, in that case, support this proposal of the law as the first reading in the expectation that in the second reading, they will receive a law on public procurement which the entire system and the process of public procurement in more appropriate frameworks, in particular the time frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77645	Thank you very much. The next is the SDP Club, on behalf of the Club, a respected representative of Luke Dennon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77646	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us, of course, a proposal for a law on public procurement with a final proposal for a law marked P.Z.E. No. 865 It is assumed that it is a conformity with the acquis of the European Union and I accept such a way of thinking. I must admit that it is not for you but for all of us this week, a strange week when we have on the agenda before the summer break very important laws that pass through and by urgent procedure and by some other procedures, quite undetected in the debate, and it seems to me that they are quite crucial, so there are some laws that should be discussed a little longer and a little more time devoted to the law in order to really pass a quality law that will satisfy all that in the opening part of this Law, and that is, above all, that everyone will be equal in that public supply of goods and services. You, Mr. Secretary of State, have read quite nicely in your opening statement, say somewhere if I was able to catch that there was a public debate on this law. Well, I'm sorry, I haven't heard much from people who do public procurement in local self-government units, but also from companies that are public procurement participants that have been very informed and that a new law like this is being prepared. I accept, of course, that in the beginning that all the consequences of the new law are good, and I think that it is time that we accepted and installed in this law these specifics which are primarily related to the criteria of choice which this law makes easier to choose from the most expensive offers in some way that it is not the only possible criterion for selection but also on the basis of the economically favourable offers, by compatriating these two can somehow make it easier for the contracting authority to choose the better quality contractor of works or services that it needs. I think that's good. He would even agree that in that ancient law, it is the most expensive and cheapest offer that has even been a good solution and perhaps in that direction to think that they do not happen in these farce contests that occurred before. I also welcome the specifics of this law that you have applied to those who get a job and then give that job to subcontractors, so those subcontractors are primarily at the end of the story because of the non-payment because of one incorrect relationship of the one who got the job and because of the blackmailing position in which these subcontractors found themselves, it is good that for that part of the job that the main contractor takes them into work that the client then pays them at these prices. That's very good, and I think that's the advantage of this law. I just didn't get it, of course, but maybe you should add some kind of deadline. Therefore, one of the consequences of the adoption of this law is that participation in public procurement procedures may also be involved by economic operators who are granted special regulations to postpone payment of tax obligations and obligations for pension and health insurance. I know what economic operators are. These are the means of those who are in difficulty and, of course, should be given the opportunity to live and work. But even here in Article 67, I don't think it's a good idea to put a deadline somewhere in the article 67. So, if at first we said somewhere in your opening statement that it was an attempt to somehow behave equally on the market, then it would be good that those who are special regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were released from paying this contribution, a deadline, some kind of deadline should be given to them. Because someone who isn't healthy, I think we should set them by deadline until they can be privileged for someone else. So, I haven't read it, maybe it's written somewhere, and it'd be good to leave it. Now I'd like this to be commendable. Now I'd like to say something critical so try to understand what the representative of the HNS Club said, so we've got one comprehensive law that has a lot of changes. I'm going to have my own comment which is personal, it's nothing offensive, I don't want to be offensive, I feel like the combination of our knowledge in public procurement and the combination of what's written somewhere European and even that foreign language in Croatia is not well translated. But I would really like to see this law, perhaps, through further reading, clear all the doubts that exist in it, that we may also get a summary of what is in the public debate if it is implemented as you say, what are those to which this law is applied that it may not be good, because I am just going to say it is not appropriate, it is not fair, it is not fair that this law enters into force in 1.1.2012 with some exceptions. Now, because of these exceptions that my court has too many, it would be good for this law to go to second reading, that we may resolve these exceptions because because of these exceptions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will bring some economic operators into an unequal position, and that is not the goal and that is not the intention of the legislator of this law. So, I'll tell you what things later, I think someone's going to be unequal. But just to try to explain how difficult it is to read the law for us here, the parliamentary representatives who are not experts, and who, of course, we're taking part in this debate and we're getting the agenda as we get and we don't know when the law is going to be, so you're going to forgive me on one of the digressions that I'm going to read. "The third part of the law contains specific provisions applied by a sectoral contracting authority which, unless otherwise prescribed in Part Three of the Law, applies the relevant provisions of Part Two of the Law. This part details the sectoral activities of grass." For this purpose, it should indeed be a public procurement expert when something is applied. So also because it's written like this we need another reading of this law, because I think that if the law goes from 1.12 to 1.12.2012, we have enough time in the autumn session to read it again. If part of this law is worth only by entering the EU in 2013 and for this reason we have enough time to further read to clarify all these ambiguities and concerns about sectoral public procurement, about the public authorities about the exceptions and all that might potentially distort that equality in the competition, which, when this is the case with that exception that the government will do before the law comes into force, seems necessary to me, it is necessary that we discuss it once again so that it is clear to all that we have no bad or bad intentions. There is one more thing I would like to say, to commend, of course, and the fact that, in previous public procurement procedures, if you chose the most favourable, or cheapest, or whatever the hell you want, then the others would have to complain by default, for a reason or for no apparent reason. So if I realized well somewhere even if the offer wasn't with some kind of paper tied up, yellow, blue, green, everything was falling into the water and that public procurement was kind of disabling and there was nothing that could be done. I think it should be removed that when someone gets a job then only some complaints can be respected, and to this change of heart, it doesn't seem to me that you've changed that too. But I would also like to say what we are looking for and that other reading would be good if we could explain some things, for example. about the exemption from the application of the law. Therefore, this law does not apply, meaning Article 10, to the following, there are many of these exceptions, to contracts concluded by the contracting authority. We said the public contractor is unlike the other, sectoral, so these are the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they are units of local self-government, state bodies, then these are Croatian waters, Croatian I don't know what, these others. But tell me, the contracting authority is exempt from the application of this law in a series of these paragraphs and articles, and I would like you to perhaps explain to me why he is exempt from Article 10(4), the contract on acquisition, lease or lease of existing buildings, other immovable property, land or rights that concern them, regardless of how they finance etc. I don't understand why, it's also public money, why now the contracting authority would be, it's not the law on public procurement, if it rents its own premises or buys, I don't think it's clear to me, and it's the public money, why it's the exception. This service contracts concluded by the contracting authority with the contracting authority may be clearer to me than anything else or in Article 13, contracts concluded by the contracting authority with the legal person provided that: (a) the legal person established for the performance of the activity in the part of that contracting authority, (b) the legal person carries out the activity for that contracting authority, the subject of the contract with the performance of the activity... , that the contracting authority excludes the owner of the business share, shares or other rights in that legal person. [[You don't understand.]] Here it seems to me that this exemption in some segments, in some cases requires that we also discuss what it means in the second reading. For example. The government of the Republic of Croatia, I'll tell the contracting authority is the owner of my and your money and with these public money needs to be done, so for example. build ships, build something, and then the one who owns the business share can directly order those ships elsewhere. That's what it says here, so I'm reading it, so please let's try that second reading to clarify it. Or in Article 11, for the purposes of defence and security, I see that we are nearing the end, try to hear us out, and we're going to go to another reading, no one's getting the crown out of their heads. Why is something that is, there's too much military there, so you've made such an exception for security sensitive works and security sensitive services. It is not specified that it is a security sensitive service, which is a service sensitive so that it cannot go into public procurement. Military equipment, works and services for explicitly military purposes, does not specify what it is. Look, if we're in a NATO system where everything is standardised, if we know what equipment and what weapons, what security systems we have, and the opposing side certainly knows what tanks these are and what vehicles and armored vehicles are in NATO standards, and I don't think there's any big secrets. And I'd like to avoid possible patricium for the second time, and let that, since that is public money, be it a part of the public procurement, that it be publicly spoken, not that the Patria happens to us for the second time. And because, in Article 168, there are many of these exceptions that I am entering into force on 1 January 2011, then part of the one that enters into force when we enter the European Union and the large part left to do so by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that it is not good, that now eight days since we have declared it in the Parliament some of the provisions apply, and some of the 1st, I think it requires that we once again read this law to be clear to everyone what we have brought and what the Government will be able to do in these five, six months by the end of the year with a direct contract without public influence and public procurement, and in order to ensure that competition in the Republic of Croatia is truly marketable with this new law and that there is no unfair position between private users of public money through public tender and state users through public tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77647	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77648	And it seems to me that in this case it's possible. Here's another reading we're looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77649	Thank you very much. The club debate will be concluded by HDZ club and respected representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77650	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that there is a very important law in front of us, the proposal for a law on public procurement, with a final draft of the law, precisely because of the problems we face at different levels in Croatia, because we are often discussing these three and a half years of amendments to the law on both the parliamentary committees and here at the meeting itself, and also because it is for example only in 2010 about the value of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia of almost 25 billion kuna. This speaks of one significant law, one important area that this law regulates. At the very beginning, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will accept the adoption of a proposal for a law on public procurement, with a final proposal for a law, and in short there is a reason why such a position is the position of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives. It is clear that the area of public procurement has been significantly improved in recent years through the implementation of the applicable laws and any changes that have come. However, this area continues to require continuous improvements, and all with a fundamental objective of implementing as effective public procurement procedures as possible with respect to fundamental principles such as competition, non-discrimination and, of course, transparency. The proposal for this Act, and we heard it from the motions of Mr. Secretary of State, was preceded by a broad public debate and the Croatian Association of Employers and Croatian Chamber of Commerce and many interested public procurement participants, various institutions of the level of local, state administration and adopted in this Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, a whole series of proposals that came through public debate to the promoter. What are the basic objectives of this Law? And that's what we've heard. Of course, the first additional harmonisation is with the acquis of the European Union, and the Republic of Croatia has taken over as a commitment as part of its activities in the closure of the negotiations in Chapter 5. Public procurement. And the second objective of this bill is to introduce new legislative solutions that will translate the experience of a number of public procurement participants, the participants also mean these public debates at the implementation of the current law, primarily several thousand Croatian contracting entities and economic operators that have participated in public procurement processes over the past years. One of the essential objectives of this proposal is to remove all unnecessary administrative barriers that have made it difficult to carry out procedures and raise costs for the contracting authorities, especially for economic operators. The provision is introduced that all documents required by the contracting entity can be delivered in an unconfirmed file, while the original documents will only be requested from the successful tenderer, which will significantly reduce the time needed to collect all necessary documents. Of course, costs, and what is very important for the businessmen, and that is an important difference compared to existing legal provisions. Also, in the open procurement procedure, the contracting authorities are required under the new competition documentation law to be fully available and fully electronic in the electronic public procurement advertiser, which will allow transparency of all competition documents. One of the most important changes is equalising the criteria of the most economically favourable offer with the lowest price criteria, and this will also be achieved through the abolition of the obligation to draw up a report on the reasons for applying the selection criteria on the basis of the most economically favourable offer, which was one of the main administrative obstacles to the application of this criterion. In this way, there will be an increase in the currently negligible proportion of procedures based on the criteria of the most economically favourable offer, which allow evaluation and additional criteria. We heard that about 1.5% of public procurement goes to Croatia only on the most economically favourable offer. So, according to this criterion and 98 and a half percent according to the most favourable price criterion, the average in the European Union is up to almost 85% of public procurement through the criteria and with the help of the most economically favourable offer criteria, and only 15 percent of the most favourable prices. What are the additional criteria that can appear and put in the competition? Quality, technical advantages, operating costs, environmental characteristics of products or projects, guaranteed deadlines, deadlines and conditions of payment, social aspects. So, a whole series of criteria that contracting authorities can use under this criterion of the most economically favourable offer, of course, respecting always and price criteria, but not exclusively the lowest price, and we know to what problems this law has brought exactly the lowest prices that we had to accept in the implementation of public procurement. And another positive change in the laws for the businessmen themselves is that participation in procedures is also possible for economic operators who have been granted a delay in paying their tax obligations and obligations for pension and health insurance, which is of great importance for a number of economic operators who have had problems due to the economic crisis and still have problems, and in this way they will also be allowed to be members of public procurement. Positive consequences for the economy are also planned through provisions relating to subcontractors that will enable subcontractors to pay directly to subcontractors, which will help address the frequent problem of non-payment of persons, the company that received the job, subcontractors, dumped prices and anything else related to this problem. And I think this is really one good solution for subcontractors who almost has all the company that gets a certain job. The practice also pointed to the need for significant changes and legal protection systems. A large part of the amendments concern compliance with the provisions of the acquis of the European Union, but with the simultaneous objective of real, fast and effective protection of the rights of economic operators at the stage of the proceedings when illegalities can still be corrected in time and enable the continuation and legal completion of public procurement procedures. Furthermore, the fees for the appeal procedure lodged with the Commission for public procurement have been increased, for the control of public procurement, in particular for public procurement procedures, of very high estimated values. And now these fees are approximated to European fees, and surely the practice so far has pointed to a large number of complaints which exclusively aimed at stopping or deliberately blocking public procurement procedures, rather than the real protection of a particular economic operator, which has also increased the risk of certain corrupt actions. Attention is also given when drawing up a bill to improve provisions relating to the prevention of conflicts of interest, and they are prescribed for both the heads of the bodies and members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards, as well as for the authorised representatives of the contracting authorities and other persons who have an impact on a particular procedure. Finally, increasing transparency will contribute to the obligation to publish procurement plans and contract registers on the client's website. This Law is one of the most significant developments in this legislative change in the area of public procurement. And we believe that the implementation of the new Public Procurement Act will allow for further progress of the public procurement system through the achievement of the basic objectives, which is the implementation of more efficient procedures for the contracting authorities, and simpler participation in the procedures for economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77651	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. First reported was the respected representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77652	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the resolution body. Let me join what is said today and spoken about the item of the agenda, and the item of the agenda that contains one important law, or one important law, is all the laws that matter, but this is one that would say a comprehensive regulation, a law that regulates relations in the market, determines competition, or regulates even relationships. One of the essential regulations governing market relations. What I'm trying to say is that this law is necessary, it's comprehensive, it's comprehensive, and I'd say what's said and boredom, and I'd join, one step, one step forward, an important step forward to regulate relations within what's called public procurement, or spending money, especially public money in the Republic of Croatia. The law, its purpose and its actual intensity is precisely to resolve competitions to ensure transparency, to prevent discrimination, or to regulate relations in the best possible way. I am aware that these relations, relations in the competition and public procurement will never be able to handle them perfectly. Therefore, none of the countries were perfectly regulated because they are both in the final market and market mechanisms are one living area. Thus, no European country has dealt with the ideal way, the problems have always been and will be, and that is one law that always adapts to the whole situation, relations and what is happening on the market, and what is happening, and I would say in the economy of a particular country. This law is one of the essential mechanisms of anti-corruption and all that it implies. Therefore, a step that must contribute and give exactly and in the fight against corruption and a stronger momentum in this anti-corruption act that we are currently in a very delicate phase, as we know. So that every law, including that law, is precisely his goal to and in making his full contribution. What I would say and agree with what is said, I believe that this law has come here in one way in an emergency procedure today three days before the disbandment means in this early summer, summer break of Parliament, and I think that one law and by what I've heard, is not discussed enough, at least as far as I know, in the professional public I would say. In the expert public who was invited. As we know and under the previous law that was a step they were created, educated, trained, I would call them experts already, i.e. professionals, professionals working in the field of public procurement and who must have all the knowledge and knowledge that I would say and skills even for the implementation of such a regulation. That was a good step. We today have people who are also licensed, etc., who are qualified and who are well trained to carry out that list. I think the law should have been better discussed with the professional public, as with professionals, means with the profession, so that some more questions that I think might be better in that law. I am also aware of what was said, and even when we read that this law was taken over in the good part. Downloaded means from the EU country rules and what is good, and I will say exactly what is good, and I will repeat that what is good is that the selection criteria that have been problematic so far, because I have had experience with being exactly the most popular offer that we are now in the most favourable offer phase. I must point out that this is also a significant step that will facilitate, make it possible to make a quality decision of the one who needs to get something and ensure the purchase of quality goods or services. That it is precisely the most favourable offer that will include all the elements of the other ones that allow, and not only that it is the cheapest in the financial means. Therefore, it is for the distinguished. Also subcontractors, I must say that subcontractors in that part are newspapers. Several times there was this problem with a subcontractor who simply couldn't collect his quality professional service from a job performer, i.e. the legal person who got the job and there was a problem that is now being made possible by this law. And I'm also joining in, that's what my colleague Denon said in front of the club, that it's exactly the relief that makes it possible for someone to report to the competition, and who is allowed to postpone the payment of certain obligations relating to the payments that everyone is obliged to pay. I therefore agree that these are generally legal persons who have had problems in their business for x reasons. Especially today when high-priced indifference is present. So people have certain problems for various reasons. I agree that this measure is one of the options for allowing it to continue to operate, especially if payment of commitments has been delayed, if someone has assessed let's say they were "justified", under quotes, or that payment of commitments will be made for the very reason he could not do and which they are justified. I agree that it can participate, but it is also necessary to set a time limit for someone to be able to participate in public procurement procedures, and where he owes, where the state has obligations to him for a year, two, three, five. Therefore, that should be defined. I also need to highlight the problem with complaints that were present. You know I'm not gonna say the number, but the vast majority of cancellation means it didn't just happen to cancel out. Repealing would not be problematic, but not to say how many times the financial resources were disabled that they could be used precisely for the intended purpose that was for public procurement because someone had reported, especially for the sake of point, a score of what was said or certain formal reasons which essentially did not affect the reasons for each decision. However, the law thus defined the appeal procedure, normally, the body is to be safe, not to be extreme then other proceedings, secondary and lawsuits etc. the procedure would be annulled, the procedure would be repeated, or the procedure would already be annulled and the selection body and the procurement would be carried out indefinitely. There are multiple means, I won't say failed, but it was impossible to use them for that purpose and it's good to do it in such a way now. The 2013 deadline, I agree. 2013 is a deadline if we have defined many things. So, a lot of things to see if this is a delay, on the other hand, whether we can set something up before I speak for individual subjects, but I would also say that all of those do not make it easy, all of those exceptions that are envisaged, I think we should review them and that ultimately I join what is said that there should be no difference between the private and public sectors in the conduct of these procedures or in the conditions for the implementation of this Law. Because just certain exceptions for x reasons are suitable ground for making, I'm not going to say, let me say one word of arbitrary decisions, multiple times the bad decisions on which we have the consequences that we can see today. So I'd be done with this. The law is a step forward, I repeat, I think you should go to another reading, nothing will happen especially on the deadlines we implement in order to see if we can fix it anywhere else, because don't forget that law when it's not good, when it's problematic when some things can be interpreted by two or three, it produces great economic damage. The law produces economic damage, to repeat multiple times, for the purpose of carrying out a public tender, and the financial resources were impossible to spend so as not to say that they had failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77653	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. It's up to the Honorable Representative, Joseph Leco. Here you go. I apologize to my colleagues, Leki and colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, who reported the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77654	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You are right to say that two days before the Constitutional break there is a comprehensive law on public procurement, which is the main anti-corruption law, and it is not serious from the promoter to do such serious things. If the first reading was we were really doing it since the 15th, and it was supposed to be the first reading with the more he pulled the legions up to 1. 1st of next year. But what's there is it's nothing new from the promoter. However, research from the economic institute has just said that the area of public procurement is our biggest corruption problem that devours a huge amount of money. This is also known to the promoter, and this is certainly this bill in order to curb the very space to narrow down the possibility of corrupt action in this area. You mention that a large number of complaints, nor that large number of complaints in the public procurement process, are the members themselves who decide to complain that they do not endanger a large number of irregularities in the public procurement process that are such a degree that they are certainly a serious criminal problem in the Republic of Croatia. I am particularly interested here in subcontractors which are the biggest problem, which cannot even be formally recorded, and this bill does not give an answer, so I ask you to think about it. In fact, we often come across either state-level or local self-government units, which give a much higher price and then agree to work as subcontractors. Here it is now nice in the article 86. Stimulated conditions of subcontractors that they must be listed, cannot be mentioned at the same time, please keep an account of it and we have solved 90% of the problems, that at the same time can not compete as a bidder and as a subcontractor, there is then doubt about the corruption action and their mutual arrangement to damage the public budget by setting prices, and indeed it is most favourable in fact quite comprehensible, but it is still greater but it is the most favourable of all compared to these. So, I am asking that this provision, too, if you are counting on it until the vote, if you really think that this biggest problem in public procurement is being contained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77655	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative of Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77656	Dear colleagues, yes, you have the right I have spoken in this segment of the newspaper that concerns just let's say that part of the subcontractor who entered the business fairly, did and couldn't collect it because there have been such cases but I absolutely agree with you in this part when reporting for public procurement procedures when 3, 4, 5, 6 companies reported to the public procurement process were given 3 companies, 4. And after that they were all in business together, I wouldn't say subcontractor, but I would use the term if we had a subcontractor, a subcontractor, a subcontractor. Therefore, in one whole chain, it is absolutely necessary to regulate and enable in a certain way that, through applications or through competition on public procurement procedures in the public sector, subcontractors can be negotiated and then the subcontractor becomes an integral part of the work done. It's hard to hijack the impression, in fact impossible for one whole story to have been arranged and to go consciously into such public procurement to achieve the material benefit, I'm not going to use another word. I absolutely agree with what you have said that this anti-corruption law a couple of excellence should be and must be, and precisely the quality solutions that we will prevent from such events are one full contribution to anti-corruption, i.e. that corruption, which is the largest in the public procurement sector or public spending, is to combat it never to eliminate... to the least possible measure. Therefore, it would be correct to read differently, it would be correct to note that this came to the table today, here two days before the session, we see the atmosphere itself which, after this whole period of work, is also to be brought to peace after the second reading, to make some improvements and precisely in order to have as much quality of the Law as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77657	Thank you very much. And now for the second time, a respected representative, Joseph Leko, gets his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed promoters, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with those who have argued that the law on public procurement is a very important law on the economy of the Republic of Croatia and that it is very important for the fight against corruption, robbery, that I agree with those who qualify it, but I must say that even so far the Public Procurement Act has not been the cause of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, nor has it happened in the Republic of Croatia. So, so far, the public procurement law has neither produced HEP nor produced corruption in highways nor created FIMI Media. So not to glorify, we are not celebrating that this law will solve the problem of corruption. He can prevent it as a law, but any law requires bodies to implement it. So, I'm going back again, so it's not important to keep calling for normative optimism, but it's important political will whether or not to implement the law as we have imagined it. Is it logical and possible to expect from a government that has tolerated corruption and robbery under the current law, the Public Procurement Act? Is it possible to tolerate it? Is that possible to expect? It's hard for me. There are several reasons why the new Public Procurement Act is being passed here. One is the formal nature, such as the harmonisation with the European Parliament's directives and the European Commission's regulations. Two directives and two regulations are the reason for supplementing and amending the law, not for the new law. And the new law in general probably wants me to say it comprehensively, entirely on the principles declared by this law, which are principles, principles, freedom of movement of goods, freedom of business creation or business creation, freedom of provision of services, etc. they have not been completed and have not been amended by the previous law. So there are still principles that have been true in the current law, but they stand out here again as a special value. In particular, what needs to be noticed is the need to amend the law in order to strengthen the interaction between the state and the economic operators, the economy. As if the amount of financial resources the state will have through public procurement has increased, this would seem so when it is said. But he didn't. In 2009, again, this reasoning of this law said that 40 billion kuna, 2009 and 2010. 25 cc billion kuna in public procurement. Thus, the country's significant impact on the economy has been reduced through public procurement. But let us move on to what I would say to the normative part of the bill. In the light of the exceptions for sectoral contracting authorities, the law is significantly liberalised, especially because of the procurement procedure in the negotiation procedure without prior publication in Articles 116 and 117 of this Act. In my court, the law is also more favourable for the client or supplier or supplier of goods and services because the assessment is now combined except for the lowest price and economic assessment in the selection of the contractor or supplier. However, the question is raised here, who and what body is scheduled to assess what is the economic best offer? For this assessment, it is very important to have some objective criteria. This law doesn't mention them at all. For the assessment of the economic usefulness of a job, the most important assessment of the entity itself, since it may have short-term and long-term objectives, may have strategic plans in this context to order or order jobs and services. There's nothing to talk about here. It is an area that will be the next area where corruption will be able to manifest itself. The law then provides for an exemption when it comes to the purchase of goods and services under this defence and security law. It's a huge area that will be beyond these procedures. Is that meant to be a state interest? If it is, then it needs to be declared somewhere and I have nothing against it, but it has to be controlled and not left as it has been until now, so after a certain period, we find out what's been going on. There's something I'd like to mention and it doesn't make any sense even in the explanation we've heard. So the conflict of interest has been particularly processed in this law and says the law re-liberates participants in the tender of public offerings, as it says there is no conflict of interest among those owned by the bidders with up to 5% ownership structure. So it's not a conflict of interest defined by the ownership structure, it's someone doing a job at the expense of general interest. So, do you think the value of the shares to the company's supposed several billion kuna or a billion kuna would be allowed to do business with the state, and in a company that is 20 thousand kuna and half percent would not be allowed. Imagine what influence that is and what conflict of interest is possible. Therefore, there is no logic to say that there is no conflict of interest, that it should not be investigated if the participant is in a tender for public procurement the owner of up to 5% stakes in a competing company. That doesn't make sense. There's no logic from the point of view of conflict of interest. Then I'd like to think in my article that the 177th Central Authority of the State Administration is set up by this law? Is it a new body or is it a body that exists so it will be found in some already established body, like the Ministry of Economy? If this is a new body then it should be established by a special law because we already have a law governing the organisation, jurisdiction, delirquency, etc. State bodies and organizations. And finally try to finish the transitional and final provisions. My colleagues have already mentioned that it is very strange that the law has three degrees when it comes into force. In general, it enters 1.1.2012 if I remember correctly, and then one part when we enter, which is suspicious again from the point of view of security, when we enter, we become full members of the European Union, and no one knows what it will look like and when it will be or at least think they know. And third, part of the law comes into force in eight days, and it concerns a lot of subjects. There is a new problem that the articles in the Transitional and Final Provisions and the Government and the Ministry have six months to adopt regulations and regulations concerning this law, and the law will enter into some norms within eight days of the publication of the legal force. It is neither legal nor economic nor justifiable. And the more I wanted to mention, it really has very rough definitions, now I'm going to give you an illustration of one. In Article 116(5), the contracting authority shall carry out one of the public procurement procedures specified in Part of this Act for the conclusion of a public service contract referred to in Appendix 2B to this Act. Please, colleagues and colleagues, honourable proposings, you tell me what this part of the law means. This part of the law can be the front, last, in the middle, and immediately you write very precisely that the provisions of Articles 45 to 48 of this Act apply to the sectoral contracting authority. So either you stick to the principle of writing the standard of determination or you don't. And code, one more sentence only at the statute of limitations. Paragraph 1 of Article 183 states that the infringement procedure prescribed by this law cannot be initiated after three years after the date of commencement, hence the objective criterion for the outdated initiation of the procedure, but the next 2nd paragraph says absolute limitation. Write down what this absolute limitation implies, that proceedings cannot be conducted, proceedings cannot be initiated and sanctions cannot be imposed when a period of six months has elapsed, so an objective period since the infringement has been committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77659	Thank you very much. Time and the chairman's compensation of time are running out. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77660	Thank you very much. So, fellow Leko, you in your introduction very clearly and very precisely said that norming or a normative act such as this one before us will necessarily not contribute to corrupt thinking and behavior in the Republic of Croatia will be reduced or increased. Of course, one such act goes to the fact that these corrupt thoughts and behaviours in the Republic of Croatia are reduced to the lowest possible extent in that technical part of the act. But that requires political will, of course, political will. For this reason, I do not think about the corruption of this law, but the possibility which puts participants in an unequal position in public procurement would be necessary for a second reading, it would be necessary for Article 168 to be limited to this exemption until we enter into the European Union, and that all these other articles of Article 2(8), so as not to read them, in particular Article 11(4), where this law enters into force before it enters into force and concerns works and services for explicitly military purposes. It's not strictly military purposes, it's our money, public money, for public use, and I don't think there's any secret if we're going to build a ship for military purposes that it's going to be a public tender, not a discretionary offer or an offer from someone, a MORH or someone for this shipyard, for that shipyard. It creates doubts that there's something wrong after all. I think it would be necessary to correct this article, and then it will be likely that with these nomotechnical changes that have happened, it will be much clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77661	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is given by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77662	My colleague Denon, I will put it this way, the concepts or entities that are marked in Article 2 of this Law cannot be given good attention, the attention of a good reader, nor should I set out norms or provisions that will take effect within eight days of publication in the "National Journal", let alone prepare well for a public tender. Therefore, there is no reason for us to pass a law that significantly affects the business position of entities in the Republic of Croatia, to enter into force within eight days, and we want to facilitate their position. So it doesn't make any sense, that there is no more fire in public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. So let us open up a second reading and give people a statement of solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77663	Thank you very much. And the last reported individual debate is the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I believe that there is a safer quality of the proposal for a public procurement law ahead of us than there has been so far and in fact, not only harmonisation with European directives but a desire to install the shortcomings we have seen in the application of the existing law into this law in order to assess that they are also well presented. But as a representative, I always have an observation that MPs, or Parliament, are deprived of the right to conduct a public debate because the first reading is essentially a public debate. At that time, the committees of Parliament have an opportunity with those who are interested in feeling and their remarks, try to assess them and help the promoter to make a quality second proposal. It is evident that the date 1.1.2012, when the law will be in force, has given sufficient time to open this process in which Parliament is indeed able to say something, because this is a document that is really important for Croatian businessmen that should have been studied through two readings in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what our wish is to be brought into line with the European directives, but the harmonisation will only be 1.1.2012. A law that goes into procedure whether it ends today or a month later isn't so important. Therefore, I estimate that a quality law that, apparently, in our opposition will not get such an easy positive opinion for the simple reason that the debate is bypassed. The first sentence in your text of reasoning is something everyone needs to worry about. 2009 40 billion kuna of public works or public procurement. 2010. 25 billion. What does that mean? The Croatian economy, which is in crisis from year to year, has an increasingly small cookie that can be used to report to public needs, public tenders so that they can simply participate and essentially find employment in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the crisis plus fewer public procurement jobs means fierce competition, battle, dissatisfaction, objections and all that we have. And therefore, the denial of this public debate and the result of some dissatisfaction, so today you have also had a public conference or a press conference, it seems to me to me that the shipbuilders' associations simply revolted with the provisions of this article especially when we talk about exceptions. We do not need all of this to really respect this procedure, that at least this public debate is partially carried out through Parliament because then something more can be done, that there are as few dissatisfactions as possible. And we don't need to have fundamental remarks on this document right now, and the comments are very clear. We give state sector support, I would say subsidies, we give such horizontal, vertical ones, whatever you want, and by law we will also enable them to make a direct contract, and the private sector in Croatia that is in crisis, which is out of business, simply feels threatened and forgotten about it at this point. And that's why I think it would be a lot easier for the Proposer to discuss such problems publicly at committee meetings and essentially try to find some kind of compromise on one of those perfectly normal, normal I would say the procedures that we have constitutionally defined in our Rules of Procedure, and this is how we are simply where? In 24 hours, prepare for the law, hear what someone thinks. One of us had a chance, so it's been in there for a long time, but in a one-day debate, we're closing a chapter that's so, so important in a crisis situation. That's why I find it hard for you to get a confession from us, and it's really worth admitting this proposal that's ahead of us. It will be difficult for us to identify what is now more important to consolidate state-owned companies where the majority capital of the state is through additional subsidies if we directly conclude some new business again, I would say new subsidies unlike the private sector that will collapse, which cannot carry out its obligations. So I would ask you to accept the proposal in which we propose that this is considered a first reading and that, in fact, through that second reading, we have more opportunities for Parliament to do this possibility of communication with the interested sector. Of course, the biggest problem is Article 10 and Article 11. What are exceptions, were they affected and did they just notice what was going on in public procurement in that part. No one mentioned it, and I can't. I can't mention the minister of police Karamark, his Sobolo company. It's security. It is a protection, so let's start all the ministries, all the public enterprises, all the ports, all of them I would say the enormous potentials of Croatia, which are based on only one company on Sobola, because the police have issued only a document to her that she can deal with security and technical protection. Just her. It was not enough either, so the Ministry of Agriculture proposed a Law on Special States, countries of special interest, to companies of particular national interest. The agricultural sector, the sector that is important for the feeding of the population in the war, so they were ordered to take physical and technical protection from only one company. Physical and technical protection includes complete equipment, software programs, computers, people, wires, whatever you want. All just one company. This law, these exceptions had to know that this is happening in Croatia, that we have companies that have a monopoly position thanks to special conditions that no one else can achieve. And we know very well that the current case is Minister Karamark and Sobolo. But we've allowed the exception here again. And yet these companies without a direct contract with documents from the competent ministries will have such positions. I therefore believe that we would have to examine what is happening in Croatia and how Article 10 does not allow such phenomena. And of course, as we heard from earlier discussions, Article 188. We have a law on public procurement that is old, which in one way defines the area of public procurement. He's worth it by the end of the year. In Article 188, we are trying to introduce new articles that will be valid before 1.1 and essentially which will be parallel to existing solutions in the existing law. And we feel that we should have explained very much why we are trying to find exceptions for these articles in Article 188. And it is evident that these articles will have catastrophic phenomena, economic consequences for the good part of the companies that depend on public procurement and that with articles that will take effect before 1.1.2012, I would say impossible access to competitions. There won't be any. The government will directly negotiate that with all the government's good will to solve certain problems in me, I would say to certain sectors of the economy, with all due respect. But we wonder if this law is in a difficult position to place some businessmen who are still not in such a position under the current law. And that's why these are the topics that should be discussed until the second reading. So I suggest you think about the amendment if you don't think about another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77665	Thank you very much. Replica has a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77666	When you quote from your status assessment, one alarming data that clearly shows that the total value of public procurement in 2007 was 40.6 billion kuna and in 2010. 24.8 billion kuna. So that's one exact piece of information that the government and the prime minister herself don't seem to care about at all, so the question really is, and you're rightly asking yourself, so we all have to ask ourselves why this haste. This was really one, this is one serious proposal that has to experience two readings. What's the rush? Well, it's not because there's so much jag behind the stones that we need to create a foundation stone factory that seems to be the only one who has a chance of public procurement to show up here to justify this haste. Also when speaking and mentioning special services and the selection criteria, I must quote the provision of Article 82 which now says that architectural, engineering and legal services will be the subject of public procurement. This is not even surprising in one part, especially when only certain people were able to represent the country for huge amounts while others had to deal with natural persons and smaller legal persons with unquestionable payouts. While these guys had an elegant position, and they don't know any. However, I warn you of what you yourself are paying attention to and here you are quoting it and then I ask you what these are, what are the criteria that you have mentioned here do not apply either to architectural, engineering or legal services whose services are regulated by special tariffs and I cannot lower them in order to be potentially more tempting to the client. For if they did, they would do harm to their duties. Therefore, all of the above criteria you state do not apply to these services referred to in paragraph 4. So again, there's something that's absolutely unregulated. That's another reason for another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77667	Thank you. Time's up, no extensions. And the reply to the replica has a respected representative, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77668	I agree that we have objections, we have objections which are also referred to by individual chambers, regardless of whether they are lawyers or others, which disagree with the new bill and therefore I believe that they should have been included in the work and parliamentary committees that had to try in some way in these conflicts of interest and suggestors to say one word before the second reading. In the part where chambers define their fixed prices and where the price is clearly not going to be a criterion then it is very difficult to carry out competitions and define what is the other thing to choose about or not. But at the same time, you have to understand, I return you to Articles 10 and 11 where this will not apply to the state because the state will always declare it a matter of national security, a matter of military security and something and it will simply behave differently in that part of the country. And that's why I think it was necessary to make more serious access to certain suggestions from interested chambers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77669	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the final review will be by State Secretary Jozo Sarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. A large part of your debate, both in clubs and in individual debates, has been defined in the public debate of the previous public debate. So, the public hearing takes almost a year. The proposals of the Public Procurement Act have also been analysed by the association of cities and associations of municipalities and the public interest, both the HOK and the HGK. The association of municipalities and cities did not even show itself on the final proposal of the Public Procurement Act, considering that we had installed all their observations, and you who were in local self-government or administration, and there are parliamentary representatives and MPs, engaged in public procurement, then this resulted from the debate you are aware of the great shifts that this bill defines. A large number of remarks were made by Mr. Korajevic, a respected representative, and related to those deadlines. So all this is defined and harmonised with EU directives. So, 99% of those things we had to put on. To make it clear, however, there is no longer a threshold of 300 thousand kuna for the service and 500 thousand kuna for the works. So that threshold for small purchases goes up to 5m euros. And for that, it's 20 days. Therefore, there will be significant shifts since this is defined by EU thresholds. So these terms are now small and large purchases that we had in the old law, so it's now changing along the borders. There were still significant comments from your discussions, and they were also related to subcontractors in one part of the subcontractors, there was little negativeness in the other part. However, the offerer will have to specify those works and services to be provided by the subcontractor. At these prices, after the verification of supervisory engineers, the contracting authority will pay directly to subcontractors. So, at these prices, where we will avoid the interest of those performers who perform the work and not just interest in taking special cashiers, but also not paying. Therefore, we must make it clear and loud that any subcontractor change will have to be negotiated with the contracting authority and the contracting authority will have to accept that subcontractor so that we eliminate any form so as someone in the debate mentioned corruption on that basis. Otherwise, the Law itself as an anti-corruption element was not the correct observation by Mr Leca that it was 5%, it is 0.5%, and this is in line with the EU directives regarding Chapter 23 and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which was voted in this House of Commons. So 0.5% not 5% to eliminate conflict of interest. I agree that you will never be able to eliminate those people who are looking for a possible crime in advance. I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown that they are dealing with and are struggling with such attempts and those who have done so, and so far activities in the fight against corruption I think they are a clear indicator that no one should try to play with it anymore. When we talk about exemptions, all of these exemptions related to Articles 10 and 11 are under the EU directive. I think Mr Denona or I think he mentioned article 10 on land and that article and point are defined in EU directives. For example, you, as a local self-government, want to build a kindergarten, is it logical to call a tender for 2,000 square squares of land and to have someone on the city’s periphery where there is nothing to offer 1 euro of land or you will directly without public procurement obligations buy it at that microlocation at the assessment of the tax administration or at the assessment of the authorised court evaluator. So this is defined in point 4. and wanted to avoid and give freedom not to process any prosecution bodies later because you bought something for 10 euros or you could buy a second euro somewhere, at 1 kuna or whatever. So that's what this is all about, and everything that we've listed in Articles 10 and 11 has come out of the EU directive. No one has any intention to please anyone in future times otherwise to delay any doubt, an accepted amendment that defines 188 here delaying the possible colitision that the old Law is valid until 1.1. some articles enter 8 days after the day of publication. Otherwise, as regards exemptions and military equipment in that defined term, it is defined as what UN equipment is and it is taxed, therefore we do not doubt that there can be any problems at all. Here, in the main lines I can conclude that with the largest number of objections we removed at this stage of the debate. We did not have the opportunity to implement and translate some of the comments into the draft legislation because of our harmonisation with the EU. A large part of your remarks and suggestions have been defined through three committees, where we have clearly explained each point at which it has been applied. I hope we vote this law on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77671	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I am concluding the debate and we will vote on this final draft of the law when the conditions are met. This and today's work of the Croatian Parliament ends. Tomorrow we begin at 9:00 with the Proposal for a Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you once again that in 12 hours and 35 minutes, the President of the Italian Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, will address the Croatian Parliament, so I ask the clubs to ensure the appropriate, whichever is greater, if not the full presence of the representatives and representatives, and I ask the representatives and MPs to hold this general appearance of the Assembly until that time. Thank you all for today's work. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77672	We're moving on to the final proposal of the public procurement law, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 865, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of SDP, HNS, HSU clubs, which reads: "The proposal for a law on public procurement, with the final proposal of the law, was held in the first reading. All objections and proposals from the debate will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law." Prime Minister Jozo Sarac, with regard to the proposal for a second reading, has been shown by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77673	Thank you, Mr. President. The applicant does not accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77674	The government has not accepted the proposal to go to second reading, so I am therefore voting on the proposal to conclude SDP, HNS and HSU clubs. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal to go to another reading, on the club proposal. The government doesn't accept, of course. This proposal was not accepted, 39 for, 2 abstentions and 73 against. The amendments were then tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, MPplatmir Mršić, SDP, HNS, HSU. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić and joint clubs of SDP, HNS and HSU. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77675	Thank you, Mr. President. The applicant does not accept the amendment of Mršić's representative to Article 38. The proposal for a public procurement law provides stricter provisions concerning the duration of the Framework Agreement with one economic operator than the applicable Public Procurement Act and limits the duration of that Framework Agreement with one economic operator to two years. This applies, therefore, to the usual items of supply. However, the proposal for a new law provides for the possibility of a longer duration of the framework agreement and, where it is concluded with one economic operator, if there are justified reasons relating to the matter of procurement, and with justified reasons, the framework agreement may be both for three years and for four years and for several years. Therefore, the existing law gives that possibility and the above-mentioned amendment does not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77676	Thank you. Since there is no one for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Committee’ policy area of the ‘Committee’ policy area.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77677	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, Article 188 of this amendment has already been adopted through the amendment to the same article of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-13-0.u77678	Is he retreating then in that case because he was accepted earlier? Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn, so I am voting on the final proposal for a law on public procurement. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 110 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against, together with the amendments adopted. Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia, Ms. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen. It is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me to welcome here in the Croatian Assembly of the High Guest and Honored Friend of the President of the Italian Republic Mr. George Napolitan, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Italian Republic, Mr. Franc Frattini, as well as all members of the Italian Republic's delegation. I would like to thank the friendly Italy for the support it has provided and further provides and still provides Croatia on its way to full membership in the European Union. Taking into account this fact as well as the fact that Croatia and Italy connect a wide range of bilateral relations, it is clear that the visit of the President of the Italian Republic is of paramount importance to the Republic of Croatia. This visit will convince me to further strengthen bilateral relations as well as strengthen the ties that exist between our countries and between the two peoples. So once again, I would like to thank the President of the Italian Republic, His Excellency to Mr. George Napolitan for his desire to address the representatives of this House at this moment of importance for our country. Here you go, Your Excellency.
