ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72491	There is yet another law in the works of our ministry to be amended and complemented in accordance with the provisions of the new Law on General Administrative Procedure and this harmonisation is procedural in nature. This harmonisation is proposed to comply with the basic principles of the general administrative procedure law and concerns the erasure of the subsidiary application of the ZUP. Furthermore, the removal of the provision of contrary purposes of the ZUP and the erasure of the provisions already prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. Furthermore, we propose to delete or replace institutes which the General Administrative Procedure Act no longer knows or modified and which the Law on Spatial Planning and Building of Restraint. The Law is also complemented by provisions which make it more clear that there are legal misunderstandings which relate to the regulation of resolution powers in the 1st and 2nd stages of the completion of the procedure for the solution of the state of play and... of the state of play and to the possibility of repealing the illegal solution of the Ministry in the event of the initiation of the administrative dispute. The adoption of this Act is necessary for the fulfilment of the criteria and closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, and in the end we have received these amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, which are nomotechnical in nature and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and we accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72492	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms. Marina Matulović-DRopulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72493	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the 45th session held on 15 April 2011, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed the proposal for amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 2 April 2011, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the proposal in question under Article 83 of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions are in line with the basic provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act in a way that deletes the provisions which prescribe the application of the prescribed General Administrative Procedure Act or those contrary to it in addition to the provisions in which there was a legal gap relating to jurisdiction in the procedure of issuing a decision on the modification and supplementing the local authorisation, the appeal procedure, the applicable authorisation or the removal permit issued by the competent administrative authority. In the following debate, it was noted that the possibility of the initiation of a administrative dispute, the renewal of proceedings or deadlines in which the action must be carried out was also established in the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction but that the basis of the General Administrative Procedure Act is now considered unnecessary also in specific laws. Three newspapers proposed by the Law in question have also been highlighted, i.e. eradicating provisions that prescribed the possibility of repealing and repealing certain acts definitively in the administrative procedure in the event of infringement of the material law of the Law. It has been stated that so far it has been in the power of the ministry, and it will only solve cases which have been declared by individual parties in the future. In addition, the Ministry opens up the possibility of revoking and modifying its solutions in the course of the procedure at the Administrative Court. Furthermore, the proposal for a law is complemented by a provision which unequivocally determines the jurisdiction in the procedure for issuing a solution to amend or supplement a local authorisation in such a way as to re-emphasise that amendments and additions are brought by the same body which has adopted a solution or a local authorisation. The paper is also a provision that provides for the possibility of appeal to the Commission as a second-degree body, whose members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act. As regards those facts, it has been pointed out that the increased risk of the adoption of unconscious or unprofessional acts is not to be annulled or abolished under the law of supervision but only if the appeal is to be made. It is concluded that the systematic resolution of illegal, unconscious or unprofessional actions in the process of issuing acts or taking action by a competent authority or by an officer of the law in force should be sanctioned by the confiscation of affairs or powers. A further discussion found that an amendment should be made to Article 236(2), which should read as follows: "A decision or act amending and supplementing the building conditions, confirmation of the main project and the building permit shall be adopted by the administrative body or the Ministry which has issued the approval or authorisation to be amended or supplemented". It is stated in the Law for a local permit, for solutions, but it is left out that this should also apply to changes and additions to building conditions, confirmation of the main project and the like. That is why we think that this amendment should be accepted and that in that way everything would be perfectly clear. Thank you very much. And that's all I have to say is that the unanimous Committee on Space Planning with eight votes has adopted this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72494	Thank you. Is there more? There's no one for the boards. I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms Marina Matulovic-DRopulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72495	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept amendments and additions to the Law as it is one of the laws which primarily ensures the harmonisation of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the General Administrative Procedure Act. We've heard that there are about 60 laws that need to be harmonised in this way, so this is one of those laws. This applies to provisions which prescribe the subsidiarity application of the rules governing the general administrative procedure, and to provisions which prescribe the possibility of the initiation of a administrative dispute and the renewal of the procedure, the provisions which prescribe the deadlines for issuing a solution, and those which oppose the purpose of the same. And so far, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction has established the possibility of all this which I have spoken about or the setting of deadlines and as regards the initiation of a dispute with the Administrative Court, but is now considered that, if it is stated in the ZUP, it should not be specifically stated in specific laws. The coordination applies, for example. in the part of the provisions in which the statement, finality, finally, is to be made concerning a solution to the composition, the solutions to the conditions of construction, the location or building permit and the inspection solutions shall be replaced by the expressions of enforceability, executive, executive. In addition, the statement of conclusions on the suspension of the enforcement procedure is replaced by the wording of the decision to suspend the execution. And there's still a few of those provisions. In addition to this compliance with the ZUP, three newspapers that have not been strictly regulated so far are also proposed, which are who may and may issue an amendment and supplement any local authorisation, any confirmation of the main project, any real building solutions, although it was meant that those who issued such permits alone can issue amendments and supplements. Now it's stated exactly, and in law it's explicitly written. It shall then determine the jurisdiction in the appeal proceedings against the applicable authorisation. So far, this has not been present in the law, however, if the investor requests a valid licence unless such use is issued, he has the right to appeal. Therefore, not the others, not the neighbours, but only the investor, because it is now also found in the ZUP. The proposed law deletes the provisions on repealing and repealing under the right of supervision of certain licences, and the ministry can only resolve those cases for which complaints by individual parties have been declared, meaning that so far the inspector could have come out, requested documentation, determined that the documents were not issued in the manner that they should be issued and requested an annulment under the law of supervision. Now it is no longer possible to do so but it is only necessary to discuss the subject only if someone has filed a complaint. As far as this is concerned, the HDZ Club believes that it may come here that certain officials do not carry out their duties as I should, that they will have less attention than they have so far, so we think that all mayors, mayors, mayors of large cities and the ministry of spatial planning, means all those who issue certain acts on the basis of which they can be built should enforce sanctions on those people who issue those permits. It means either taking away their powers, if something like that can be determined. Then, within the framework of compliance with the new basic provisions of the ZUP, and this actually applies to all inspections in all ministries, it is a question of who is the second-degree body that solves the complaints. So far, the second-degree body has been a commission. So when a certain solution is issued in the first instance, the investor complains and after that, the ministry handled these cases through the commission. The commission will now be appointed by the government within 60 days. Therefore, the commission will also address this only thing that will be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order to ensure the rapid harmonisation of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the provisions of the General Administration Act, which is necessary to comply with the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23, the legislator proposed the adoption of an emergency procedure. Therefore, once again, the HDZ club will accept amendments and amendments to the laws because it is really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72496	Thank you. On behalf of the club SDP Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72497	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which complies with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. In the introductory part of the draft law, i.e. in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the applicants, which are the resolute Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, explain that this law is adopted in order to comply with the criteria for closing the famous chapter 23 – the judiciary and fundamental rights to which the Republic of Croatia wishes to demonstrate that it is fully committed to preventing and combating corruption. And since we had the opportunity to read and hear this during the debate on a whole series of other legal proposals that we have discussed so far, which, like this law, are in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The majority of these changes relate either to the extension of the time limit for the submission of an appeal from 8 to 15 days, the transfer of the second degree from the body in which the first degree is carried out to another body by means of the method of laying eggs into different baskets, to the Committee on Frogs elected by the Government, not by the Minister or Minister, and to the particularisation of the criteria to be met by members and members of those committees. It is similar to this bill which, in addition to the new provisions relating to the Board of Appeal, replaces the finality of the solution with the enforcement of the solution, deletes the provisions which prescribed the possibility of repealing and abolishing under the law of the control of certain acts final in the administrative procedure in the event of breach of the material provisions of the law. This amendment could prove dangerous and harmful because the abolition of these provisions prevents the control of damages in the event that acts have been adopted sloppy, unprofessionally or even intentionally contrary to the law to suit the interests of individual investors. If the legal possibility to file a complaint is missed, the only option will be to sanction persons who have brought such harmful acts, but it is very insufficient in a legally unsettled environment like Croatia. This law allows the competent ministry to change and repeal its solutions in the course of procedures conducted in the administrative court, but this is more of a legal patch. In addition, this proposal unequivocally determines that the amendments and additions of the location permits shall be made by the same body which has granted the original authorisation. Although, as I have previously pointed out, the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will not support the adoption of this law without looking at a broader picture of the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and in particular in the context of the prevention of corruption and the rule of law, this is the main reason for the adoption of amendments to this and other laws that we have been discussing lately. And the facts relating to the implementation of this law are not at all flatterous, and this law is very often referred to on one side as an obstacle to investment, but as an object of abuse, intentional and corrupt abuse of red tape aimed at obtaining illegal financing benefits or bribes. I believe that each of us has heard at least one horror story about shagging mostly small investors without strong political ties within a circle of high-ranking officials or officials working on issuing permits, or a solution to building conditions. Procedures due to their intentional abuse of the procedures of issuing necessary acts can be withdrawn for a period of more than a year, two of which can completely destroy investors who have raised loans and have committed themselves to implementing projects completely according to the law, but then those who need to enforce the laws are shown to the greatest enemies of the law and a fair procedure that should be equally valid for all. This, unnecessarily, creates enormous legal uncertainty and rejects investors from investing in projects in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, you have certainly heard many completely different stories, stories that tell that some investors who are fortunate to have good connections in political circles realize projects through order, past the law or by adapting the rules of the game to their needs. The abuses in the area of spatial planning, we would say almost regular manipulations of spatial plans and higher and lower levels speak of the fact that in Croatia today there is no longer any professional spatial planning, especially urban planning, i.e. that spatial planning is completely overshadowed, devoured by construction and very ugly, grebator and predatory construction, which sets the impossible rules for most to neutralize competition and which allows full freedom from respect for any rule to a privileged few. This enabled, to some extent, the current Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, with the help of certain sick, corrupting parts of red tape. That is why we at the SDP club believe that the real desire to improve this absolutely unacceptable situation will only show the separation of spatial planning from construction that is now united in an unnatural marriage, in one law. It is unnecessary to say that the goals of spatial planning are quite different from the objectives of construction and that in this alliance it is always the spatial planning that weakens a partner who must withdraw from often a gramptuous greed for space by uncontrolled construction. The consequences of such a situation are inconceivable because exactly space is one of the most important strategic resources of the state, and in the last 15 years we have ruined it. The desire to weaken spatial planning was seen from the fate of the Croatian Urbanist Institute, the shutting down of the Independent Study of Urbanism at the Faculty of Architecture, the increasing takeover of the area of spatial planning and urbanism, which are extremely interdisciplinary areas by architects and the like. In order to introduce order in this area, order in terms of the prevention of corruption and the rule of law, in the sense of distancing the spatial arrangement from construction, it is necessary to adopt two special, quality and simple laws: the Law on spatial planning and the Construction Act. We believe that this would significantly contribute to preventing corruption from being brought into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Positive in terms of fighting corruption, it would also work by separating urban and construction inspections from the rest of the ministry because, in the right sense, that word would mean putting eggs in different baskets. Unfortunately, the degradation of the importance of spatial planning is seen from the dictation of the obligation to develop the Action Programme to improve the situation in space. Namely, the Programme of measures to improve the situation in space, together with the report on the situation in space, falls under the documents for monitoring the situation in space. The space monitoring documents are documents that legitimize the administration. The municipalities and cities, counties and state resolution bodies shall demonstrate to these documents their permanent concern for the situation in space and their awareness and responsibility for improving that situation within a specified time limit. The programme of measures was therefore a document obliging the executive bodies to carry out certain spatial planning tasks within a specified period of time, in accordance with the budget, the available operational forces for the needs of residents and programmed economic development. Therefore, the programme of measures should include an assessment of the need to draw up new, i.e. to amend and supplement existing spatial arrangements documents, the need to obtain data and professional bases for their production and other measures of importance for the production and adoption of those documents. The programme sets out the need for land planning, land planning levels, sources for financing its arrangements, and the time limit within which a specific land is to be regulated for the intended purpose. The structure of the building land includes the preparation of land for construction, it is the creation of spatial plans of property and legal works and others, as well as the construction of municipal and telecommunications installations, facilities and devices of individual and joint consumption. The Programme of Measures coordinates territorial development with the budget and development strategy. The programme of measures, depending on the specific features of the areas for which it has been adopted, also established other measures for implementing the policy of regulation of space and spatial planning documents. The space monitoring documents shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure of all other general acts at local and higher levels as well as the budget, as the programme of measures is part of the policy of a particular authority and decisions should be in line with the electoral programmes. The introduction of the programme of measures rationalises the need and sequence of the production of large amounts of spatial plans defined in spatial arrangements, designs territorial development and reduces the cost of space management. The decision on the abolition of these documents, the merger of spatial planning and construction, the privilege of one another, the obstruction of others, speak of the fact that, over the past few years, a thought-out policy has been conducted against strategic space management as extremely valuable, according to some of the most valuable resources of the state, i.e. that space has often been managed by interested investors, rather than in line with the interests of long-term sustainable use of space and public interest. And for this reason, although the SDP club will support these changes to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, we are aware and aware that this is just a drop that cannot put out the fire deliberately caused by the chaos that baffles this extremely important sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72498	Thank you. We have one correction. Ms. Representative Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72499	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could make a lot of things right here, but I'm only gonna make two things right. It's about the degradation of spatial planning. I must say, in early 2004, a total of 113 spatial plans were made in Croatia when you too, Mrs. Holly, were in that ministry. Today it's made 556. All units of local self-government have their own spatial plans. Therefore, there can be no more of the things you've been talking about. I don't have enough time to explain it all together. As far as licensing is concerned, I do not think that such a thing can be generalised because it is important whether licences are issued in the northern part of Croatia or in the southern part of Croatia. In the northern part of Croatia, of course, it is much less of an interest. Permissions can all be obtained within 15 days, whether it be the Varazdin, the Čakovec or any part of Slavonia. The problem is on the coast because there are too few people and no one wants to work with architects and builders on the job. So, please, I can't have people generalizing and it can't be all the same because it's really not true. All the analyses have been made, especially with regard to spatial plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72500	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72501	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the Final Proposal for an Emergency Procedure Act, and in connection with the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union in Chapter 23, and as it writes at the beginning of this text, the harmonisation of the law on spatial regulation and construction with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Looks like these changes to the law are kind of cosmetic. However, there are certain articles to be discussed mainly when it comes to Article 290 where the complaint against the building inspector's solution is no longer resolved by the ministry's commission but by the government's commission. As far as I know, the ministry is part of the government, the inspection is part of the ministry, the stairs are moving to the government's commission, so it's not the ministry's commission anymore, it's the government's commission. It's not a neck, it's a neck! Furthermore, it is true that the law that has been amended so many times so far, so here was the last one in 2008 39 legislative proposals, then 86 since 2008. So, published in the People's Newspaper. And here it is again in 2011 changing, or supplementing and changing. So, well, the SDP lady noticed that I wouldn't say it was a chaotic state but that there were two-way damages. Anyway, it's true. Namely, from an example known to the former minister and for whom I personally asked. So, in one case, where a small investor in Slavonski Brod is unable to build, continue the construction of the starting facility, an investment of 2.3m euros, due to the spite and personal intentions of the inspector or the inspection. And now it's as if I were to say "breathing" in the very center of town, and the Ministry's opinion can't even be carried out by the Department of Construction in the city of Slavonski Brod that exists. On the other hand, that's one side, one direction that can cause damage. On the other hand, it is a shame not to say wild construction and when it comes to investors who are already said to have certain political bindings and influential politicians either in the executive, or in the representative, etc. The authorities, then there's damage to the state of the room. So that's another kind of damage both. However, whether this new legislative proposal harmonising the Law on Spatial Regulation with the General Administrative Procedure Act will bring about improvement in either direction, or in the other direction of these repairs, these damages will only show time. What I wanted to point out is that this law, i.e. the draft law on amendments and additions, somehow forgot about one and the acute and subangular and chronic problem of the entire Croatian society, which could, could have been addressed or given certain guidelines in terms of legalisation of illegal objects. In Croatia, there are a large number of illegal objects. The last so-called. General legalisation was also a solution made by the former state to recognise all the facilities built by February 15th 1968. It's been 43 and three years since then. There are over 140,000 illegal objects in agriculture itself. This law, therefore, belongs to this law and to these things. Only 4 to 5% of the agricultural facilities are legalized, and we are entering the European Union. So, not only that if the objects aren't legalized, they won't be able to back down either. Incentives any structural, any other. The reconstruction will not be possible according to the European Union's standards because they are not legal. What damage will arise for the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, or this is going on purpose to damage the destruction primarily of livestock, pig farming, cattle farming, etc. Well. ... So positive, that I'm very positive, only you're not positive. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're negative. Thus, when the amendment and addition of this Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was already made, this matter could also be covered. Not to mention the individual housing, she knows Mrs. Dropulić and the Vir, and the Rogoznica, and everything that was, which collapsed, which didn't collapse, how after that we had to build it again, etc., and make up for the damage, and for the purpose that it had come about, I won't. I'm talking about the agricultural facilities that it has, maybe it's not true either, so it's not true, but it's not in the number one, but about 140,000 illegals. It is clear that such administrative not to say cosmetic changes, where the Civil Engineering Act is harmonised with the General Administrative Procedure Act, we cannot refuse as a party and personally as a representative that it is something that comes into good faith and intentions and positive thinking we think that it will somehow bring or introduce at least a little order into this area, in an area where there is a clear hair of interest, like a wolf and sheep in the same tower, spatial planning and construction, or investment construction, and that is now all together in the same place, and then it is clear that there is a very often conflict between those who, and we saw it on the Flower Square in Zagreb how expensive this has been, and what all the effects it has been doing, so those who think and who represent therefore space and state in the area, of those who want to invest clearly that there should not be stopped or investment, and that it would be to say that there is no matter what they should be, but in any way, that there should be, in any way. However, given that what was possible in the proposal of this Law on Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of the HDSSB Club will do to the special proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of Emergency Procedures, it is precisely a proposal to legalise facilities in agriculture with December 31st 2010, which was built so that people can comply with these facilities, adapt according to the regulations and rules of the European Union, for relatively small money, not walking expensive, expensive permits or solutions, however you will, which per object up to 600 square meters amounts to up to 250 thousand kunas, square meters, and those who are, or cubic if you will, if you will now count, and those who are more than 6 hundred metres of kuna, obtaining permits. Since the subject of this legislative proposal to supplement the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, with the final proposal for a law,... in what we are thinking, therefore, about legalising the facilities in agriculture, the HDSSB club will support not saying this as I said at first a little administratively, and yet a bit of a cosmetic proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72502	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72503	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I don't agree with much of what's been said here by my colleague Grubisic, but I would just like to correct the incorrect quote when it comes to illegal agricultural facilities. You must know that in our area of Požega-Slavon County, we have indeed done everything we can to try to legalise the objects that have been built each and every one of them, so every producer that has built beyond the spatial plan, past the urban plan, etc., and today, all of this is transferred to the Ministry, and it is transferred to power. So we just as a local self-government tried and we try to solve it, but when we come to talk to people, they just don't want to do it to anyone, and they don't want to just give it to anyone. So at the same time I'm asking a question, we at the local self-government want to realize it, when you get on the ground they'd just like someone else to do it together and give it to them. So let's not always blame the government, and the ministry, we must always go from ourselves. So what you're saying here today is that you're just talking to each other in order to get to the point where I don't know this or that, I keep saying it, I don't need to talk like that, we need to look the truth in the eye. So I'm sure here we are, as a unit of local self-government, trying to figure it out, whether or not we're going to make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72504	On behalf of the club. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72505	Thank you very much. According to Article 209, Mr. President. Namely, Mr. Lucic injured Article 209 because I did not speak about Požega-Slavon County and their attempts, as he says we tried. So it actually confirms what I said, they're just trying. And secondly, he won't say how much the cost of legalizing these objects and why a peasant can't legalize that object, it shuts up, it shuts up, because he won't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72506	That's it now. Mr. Lucic said that the claim was not, at least as far as his county is concerned, and that is the correcting of the incorrect allegations. Let's move on. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72507	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Mr. Minister. Yes, on this discussion Mr. Lucic and Mr. Bora and the IDS club are absolutely in favour of one general legalization. That's exactly what we need to do at sea, anything that can be aligned with spatial plans, that should be legalized, let them pay compensation and let our people do afterwards. Without legalization there is no legalization of apartments, there is no after-opening of crafts, in Slavonia of these farms, in tourism I do not know any other activities. After that, people would pay taxes, then they could pawn their buildings, get loans, etc. The state doesn't have any money, and I'm saying there's maybe 10 billion kuna in the beginning. If we have 100,000 buildings that can legalize times 100,000 kuna, let's have an average fee, that's 10 billion kuna. After that comes the other, legalizes activities, then starts to work, then legally I don't know how to pay VAT, other contributions, turns, jobs, credit lines, etc. So let the government really propose one such law, let's go that way, let's legalize where possible because I know people who have buildings for 25, 30, 33 years built it the way they built, as many, and let's go sort of meet them so that they can legalize their facilities for themselves and their own. As far as this Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is concerned, the law only has 30 articles. What all my predecessors have said is clear that it is in accordance with either this law or the provisions of this law that comply with the provisions of the general administrative procedure. I agree with those who say it is cosmetics, and I think that when it comes to construction in Croatia, the problem is as deep as the deep sea. In this country, construction activity has dropped by 30% to 40% in the last year. In a year only in the area of construction in the Republic of Croatia, between 30,000 and 40,000 workers are out of work. Investments in construction that were worth 50 billion kuna a year ago, Mr. Shuker knows best as the finance minister, in 2011, will not reach 30 billion kuna. Any advantage to speed up this one administrative procedure, the administrative procedure must be of national interest. Enough politics, we simply won't do anything because we can't survive from it, gentlemen. The clear objective of this law is not to speed up administration, but I would say braking and further difficulties in the area of the entry of individual documents. Without raising that building activity, I'm afraid we can't get out of the crisis. A whole range of activities has been provided to buildings or construction. It's not just construction, it's construction machinery, then it's the equipment they're building I don't know the engineers, etc. There's a VAT that the state is incometing, there's contributions that we expect people to pay for a higher-a-vis to create new jobs and so on. If only in the field of construction activity in the Republic of Croatia has dropped 20 billion kuna in a year, that means that the state is incometing 5 billion kuna of VAT less on that basis alone. And that means that the deficit of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 would not be 20 billion kuna, but to move in the predicted sizes of 15 billion kuna. Four and a half days ago, she was in our press of controversy with the Honorary Consul of Israel, who roughly told Israeli investors not to invest in Croatia because no work could happen in Croatia. Unfortunately, this claim is true although we did not expect such a statement from an honorary consul who should represent the interest of the Republic of Croatia in another country. And that is true, this claim can be confirmed by all those who have been looking for it for 10 or more years by a variety of documentation that they can invest in the area of the Republic of Croatia. If we don't encourage investment, gentlemen, we're gonna ruin a lot of things. And just one more piece of information, foreign investment in 2010 was only 450m euros. A year ago, 2009, 2 billion euros. So a billion 500 million euros bigger. And before last year, about 4 billion euros. So in these last two years foreign investment on the ground of the Republic of Croatia was 5 billion euros less, which will say that we have lost between 40 or 50 thousand jobs on this basis. What's the point of the law is I've already said it myself, everyone's saying it. In my view, too, this article 9, or Article 10, that I am now not quoting them from this page 13, I really think that the procedure should be shortened if it is possible to simplify and down to the quotes of "banality". Everything needs to be faster, everything needs to be cheaper, everything needs to be much simpler. It's just the time. Croatia has no time. That may be our biggest in the moment handicap. We've complicated everything, we've overestimated ourselves normally, we've underestimated others. The price for one 200 square building, one municipal and all those other fees, is largely dependent on local self-government, reaching and reaching 200 thousand kuna. Now, I'm saying it doesn't matter who determines them, local self-government or state, we're just too expensive. Articles 210, I'm not even going to quote them, but I can see that there may be something a little shorting in time, but it certainly isn't enough in any way. I'm often asked by friends, here's a mini hotel in Buzet, what about this fire protection, or those standards? Those permits or beliefs shall be issued by the MUP. Well, that's nowhere to be found. I can't open a hotel in which it's invested I don't know how many million euros where it's revitalised part of the city, it's all complicated and it's simply making people do nothing. I'm saying we should get all those documents in one place. Everything needs to be done in a way that the workers of that administration are local or state, however, coming to the investor, not vice versa that he simply visits all these institutions. It's a simple time, and I think we need to take care of it, and if we don't, we're going to make our lives and time ahead more difficult and we're not going to help ourselves or the state. It is clear, as all have said, this amendment to the Law since it is a dominant alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act should be clearly voted and supported, however, this Law does not speak of a reduction of those deadlines and therefore perhaps one whole law should regulate that issue. Everyone mentioned this second-degree body by appeal, this was so far this Commission being the composition of the competent ministry, now the Board of Appeal is appointed by the Government itself, I am asking myself whether it will be an even greater administration, whether it will be one additional centralisation, whether it is an additional footing on the Ministry of Construction, whether it will cause a slowdown of treatment, whether it is a demonstration of mistrust with people working in the competent ministry, or whether it is simply a bargaining or harmonizing with some requirements coming from Brussels, from Strasbourg in one word of the European Union. Finally, I believe that we need a new Law on Construction, a new Law on Public Procurement, a new Law that will motivate the administration to work, and not to wait for a year, two, three, in some cases like that famous Ladić project on Marlera or Ljižnjan, 12 years, now it's all over, I guess now it's going to go. Let it go as soon as possible because the investment doesn't matter 50 or 100 million euros, so the state will receive 23% of the VAT that will go to pay, for pensions I don't know what to do, etc. So we simply need to start thinking that way. I said only foreign investments by the Republic of Croatia in 2009, 2010 lost 5 billion euros equivalent to politics. We will do nothing, because of the opposition to everything proposed, because of the inability to do one job in Croatia without bribes or within a short period of 12 years. If we lost 5 billion euros in 2 years, in these 10 we may have lost 15 billion euros, but with 15 billion euros we lost 150 thousand jobs. How many Croatia lost in 2009 and 10, respectively, from 2009 to today, 150 thousand jobs. So, gentlemen, let's try to offer a summary of these laws to enable this one construction expansion, because that construction is based on so many other activities, without which we simply have no survival. Because what we do is we play with both the country and the people and the Croatian future, and that's why we have to allow people to work, make money, have the same investment so that they can live from work and so that everyone around them can survive as well. The truth is what Mrs. Dropulić said earlier that in 2005, 6th, 7th, when this construction activity was at its peak, a large number of people, especially in Istria, were not only in Istria but probably Dalmatia, etc., fled to the private sector, but as the crisis has been growing recently, so many of them would return to the safest business in the world and this is in that state administration. And that's why I'd really like to if it's true that what's here suggests that not only in one Varazdin or Međimurje is the time limit for issuing a permit and there's 30 days and a point elsewhere. Everything has to be simple in that period, everything has to be obtained in one place and that's the only way we can go forward. The government, it doesn't matter if it's a state, it's good that the state has a minister or it doesn't matter if it's a vice president for investment, should either mayors down there or mayors anyway, so the government needs to chase investors to invest, not vice presidents, and that way we can prosper. Everything else is a bit of a wrinkle, everything else is making investors, and it doesn't matter whether it's domestic or foreign, whether it's big or small, everyone has to have a chance to work, make money and work that they honestly do so that they can leave something for themselves and their children, and we don't need to be afraid of rich people in this country if they come to money in a fair way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72508	Thank you. We have a correction. First is Ms Marina Matulović DRopulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like all our special representatives to understand that legalising illegal objects depends primarily on the units of local self-government. With these spatial plans adopted in Croatia today, nearly 30,000 buildings can be legalized. But people don't want to legalise themselves but the Croatian state can't bring me here a law that will force it to legalize if the local self-government unit doesn't want to have housing or some kind of industrial or agricultural property. So it all depends on priority because according to our Constitution, it's a unit of local self-government, as far as spatial planning is concerned, and then the state can help and can do something, but first they have to decide to legalize, and people have to decide to actually legalize what they can legalize today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72510	Thank you. Correction Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72511	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the incorrect assumption is that Mr. Cain, who quoted the Honorary Consul in Israel, is that Croatia, in which case Dubrovnik, is doing everything possible to drive investors away and not allow investment. Namely, this investor, like everyone else in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, can invest only if their projects are in line with spatial planning documentation, that is all. Those whose projects do not comply with the spatial planning documentation of course need to be harmonised and that the spatial planning documentation should be followed. And what I agree with was that it was a completely inappropriate appearance of an honorary consul towards Croatia, which he represents in Israel. But I say respect, respect for all plans. I hope and want to believe that you also want to respect the plans that are in place in both Istria and all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72512	Correction Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72513	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, I don't cleave or correct anything, but you've been throwing yourself away for billions of euros so I have to say that none of your information is correct. For example, you are talking about billions of euros in foreign investment, about 5 billion euros that Croatia lost only last year. You mix foreign investment with the purchase of companies in Croatia, with the purchase of real estate. You buy and capitalize when you buy a car it's from the corner of your investment pocket, but from the economic point of view it's not an investment. Of course, investments have fallen because we no longer sell businesses and don't sell, and the question is whether it's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to lose when a company sells or gets it. With a lot of businesses, it lost the economy of the Republic of Croatia when it sold. And also when you say you can't get a license, you can't get a license with one piece of paper, you can't get a license on agricultural land if it's building land, but there's 30,000 facilities where you wait for licenses, where they can, but they won't even pay. And there's the problem. But you want to selectively access and blur a clear picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72514	It's Mr. Cain's injury to the Businessman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72515	I just got off the phone with Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Milosevic last night. 209. Last and last year, Croatia lost 5 billion euros in these two years of investment, and it has nothing to do with the sale of companies because it has not been sold in 2009. It's about the capital of banks, it's about the capital of others who would come here to build greenfield investments, to build something like that. Therefore, on this basis alone, we have lost Mr. Maric in tens of thousands of jobs. And now if we look at how many jobs there were higher than Croatian corruption, either because of the fact that you can't do any work lost from 2000 to today, then you can turn it into hundreds... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72516	This is a classic example of the abuse of Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament. It has absolutely nothing to do with Mr. Maric, who has nothing to do with this institute. I'm asking you not to do that. But what else is there to pray for? It doesn't matter. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72517	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain incorrectly said that the aim of this law is to further stifle investment. It's incorrectly absolute. Secondly, we testify to God that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking all the measures to make the investment cycle snap and go in the right direction. Thank God we're really witnessing and here's from my middle these days and the Križevci-Koprivnica, the hydropower plant Ombla and others. But it's nice of you to hear a colleague of Cain talking affirmatively about encouraging investment. So I'm just curious how you think about it in Istria when you said a short time ago in this Visa House that anyone who thinks differently would have to stop at Ucka and that you would have to pay some kind of tax that might have been named after you and every tax dear friend he raises investment and makes it difficult to invest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72518	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72519	Oh, my God, Article 209 of all this other stuff that goes for insults. And God forbid everyone like you crossing Ucca for the crap you're taking out pays taxes. I didn't say that the goal was to block the investment, I even praised for the pay phone... /The speaker turned off./... but all this does your government... /The speaker turned off./... removes the power and... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72520	Mr. Caine, you have re-abused the workmen's injury because Mr. Milinkovic was correcting what you said and said and he said it wasn't. So he didn't hurt the Businessman but for the second time in spite of my application and tolerance, and I'm telling you about that warning because of twice the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute. So you're giving up on the Rules of Procedure's injury, too. They gave up because you might as well give them a warning if they didn't follow this rule. Thank you very much. I hate to say it, but this has already gone beyond measure. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72521	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I will look back at previous discussions because I simply cannot avoid it. Of course, I support what Mrs. Mirela Holly said that this law and these changes will not be dealt with with with by corruption, which is a special story that needs to be solved in a different way, but neither can we expect it from this law. Of course, I would also like to advocate the legalisation of agricultural facilities that my colleague Grubisic used to say, but we cannot resolve that by this law, as I would agree with Mr Cain in part that this law will not significantly speed up the process of passing and fixing paper on possible construction. However, this law does not intend to do so again but intends to provide the right to appeal to those who are potentially damaged and to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. But what I have to notice is the way Mr. Cain is exhibited and about the unbearable ease of reading numbers. I think he just ran for either the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Spatial Planning, so he acts as such to solve problems so that he actually deserves that position. So that's my observation at the current course of exposure. [[I have no intention of anything in the executive government.]] What we need to say about this law and stick to the framework of the debate on the law itself, that we have another one in a series of laws that is not European law means P.Z.E., but it is necessary for the closure of Chapter 23, and it is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that is important. From that point of view, the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners has no significant or specific objections to this law and will support it. So, the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Pensions Party will support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, but we will continue to mention it all the time. There is one principled remark that has probably been said many times so far and will be said many more times, do we have to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act if Europe tells us that we must satisfy Chapter 23? Couldn't we have done it ourselves by now, couldn't we have done these standards alone in all the previous adoptions of all these 60 laws that we have to coordinate and regulate ourselves on this basis? So, it will always remain a bitter impression that we are neither like Parliament nor as Government at the height of the task because we are missing out on a job right now. Let's make it slower, but let's do it right. Their shipbuilding experiences can also be applied here. In welding, it's not the speed of welding but the quality of welding because it's much more expensive when the job comes back and works the second time. It's a lot more expensive, and I think here that we did the job the first time we did it so we wouldn't be wasting our time right now. Since the proposed amendments and additions to this law, I have already said there are no specific objections, except for the ambiguity in the provision of Article 23 relating to the Board of Appeals, which is otherwise appointed by the Government. In fact, it is not very clear the role and purpose of this changing member of the commission. Does the government mean to change him from case to case? So I would beg here an clarification on this matter. And secondly, I ask you how this will be implemented in practice, or this commission, whether it is determined or appointed indefinitely because it does not say anywhere whether it is designated for a certain period, two or four years. So, I ask you to explain this here during the debate on behalf of the motionary. I'm taking another chance to point to one illogicality. In fact, in Article 97 which is partially touched here, it is touched by the nomotechnics, because of a slip or error that is embedded inside paragraph 2 where oral solution and oral statement are spoken in the same paragraph, however, this is not the essence of my remark. The main point of the remark is that we at the site have one rule for the labour inspector who writes his observations in the book of supervision, and in the exercise of inspection supervision, the building inspector may give an oral solution, but for this oral solution in paragraph 3 is obliged to write a written correction of the oral solution. I think this is really about unnecessary red tape. So let's write down that he too is obliged to sign into a surveillance book that already becomes a document in itself and this written correction of the oral solution is pure red tape. Therefore, I point to the illogical nature of these two provisions. So also, since I want to discuss only the context of the proposed law, not the broader context where it has already been discussed here and, in principle, agreeing with it, I do not want to repeat it, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement, I just want to repeat once again that according to what this law is proposed and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72522	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. A fellow representative of Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72523	Mr. Hrelja speaks of the ease of carrying out these figures. The figures I present, Mr. Hrelja, are accurate and what's worst are frightening, and what someone doesn't want to hear, maybe you among them, it costs us and costs us 150 thousand jobs in two years. Our gross social product has dropped three years in a row, industrial production only for us and Greece for over 12 months...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72524	Comrade Cain, correct what your colleague has said... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72525	And now to return to the building, the building was covered in 50 billion kuna last year with 30 billion... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72526	My colleague Cain, but he didn't say a single word about billions of colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72527	The price of the crisis, but also the price of politics we will not do anything and simply.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72528	We haven't fixed anything, but we're going one step further. We don't have any more club applications. We're moving on to an individual debate. ... I'll pray for some peace, colleague Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In an individual debate, the first one reported to a respected colleague, Zdenko Franic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72529	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is certainly the law that needs to be passed in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and we can really hope that the adoption of this law will indeed speed up the procedure for obtaining different permits, beliefs, etc. During the debate, we also heard a lot about the legalization of objects that were illegally built. However, I would like to say a few words about the legalization of objects that are not illegally built. So, the traditional objects that have existed for decades, perhaps hundreds of years without being drawn into a cadastre, and are not also recorded in a garter. It is, for example, traditional wooden buildings in the northwestern Croatia. Banovina, Kordun, for example, Slavonia, Posavina, Pokuplje, etc. And here we are now experiencing really paradoxical situations that vary from municipality to municipality or city to city that is even responsible for it. In fact, it is paradoxical that according to Article 330. The construction law needs to be ruled out by all force of documents in order to gain confidence in the time of the recording of the building even if, for example, the Ministry of Culture has declared it a traditional heritage or cultural monument. So one ministry issues confirmation that the facility is a traditional Croatian heritage. However, in the sense of the Construction Act, this is not enough to allow a document to enter into the process of obtaining confirmation of the time of recording of the building, but, then, within the meaning of Article 4(4) of Article 330, the existing situation of the building, the review of the catastrian plan, etc. etc. which is really expensive. It takes an extremely long time, and these documents are also unnecessary for the next step, that is, the recovery itself. At the same time as it is bureaucratized by recording these unidentified objects and being respected by Mr. Secretary of State quite a lot. There are them in remote villages and remote areas, so they are subject to essentially devastation. It is a public secret that such facilities can be bought for very small money and that they are then separated overnight and finished either as luxurious oak floors in newly built cottages or perhaps as traditional furniture. I'm saying it from field experience. I know cases where it took two years for protected traditional objects to legalize. On the other hand, in the neighborhood of such a building, houses disappear overnight and nothing happens to anyone. He disappears without a trace. I believe that something should also be done in this regard, so that the Ministry of Civil Engineering in this segment must find common language with the Ministry of Culture and make it important to simplify the management procedure for such buildings. Unfortunately, the State Geodetic Authority for many areas simply has no air footage before 1968. But it's interesting that many such objects have nevertheless been recorded on those special maps of criteria 1:25000 or 1:50,000 which, according to our law, this of 1:25000 is illegal to own, and then it can't be proof that the objects are essentially older than '68. the years, even though they were drawn on those special cards of the former JNA. The Ministry should also make some kind of protocol that should be applied and to what level to be taken in this video of the existing situation if it is already an integral part of the belief that Article 330 requires it. Construction law. Because, Mr. Secretary of State, it is paradoxical that in many cases, the location permit or documentation needed to build a new facility is easier to obtain than to collect all the necessary documentation for the restoration of our traditional, cultural heritage. So many people simply lose the will to do it at all because they simply don't want to fight with the administration. Maybe this opportunity was also an opportunity to simplify it. But here it is missed. But I urge you to consider this problem and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, to make a clear plan, a hodogram, a procedure that all and to what level of documentation should go to in order to obtain a permit. Personally, I think that the Ministry of Culture's conviction, as the competent administrative body referred to in Article 330, would be sufficient, would be sufficient, and in practice, this is what is happening that the Ministry of Culture issues a conviction about the time of construction, and then the Ministry of Civil Engineering issues an opinion on this opinion that the opinion of the Ministry of Culture is valid in terms of the competent administrative authority. Well, our ministries belong to all governments, they're not any private Lena, and a little more cooperation would be really desirable. And that this kind of house has not much, and they cry out for faster, better, better quality protection, because we'll soon be out of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72530	Thank you very much. It's time to report individual debates. And for the debate, a distinguished colleague named Jerko Roshin also applied. Here's your colleague, Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The very proposal for these amendments and the addition of laws should practically not be specifically discussed, because it actually means compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure, and it simply introduces a certain order, that something which is not discussed by one law in another law, and in that sense some specific debate would not be, although it is expected and discussed that the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction would be discussed one day when the conditions are matured,... As the problem goes forward, it'll make sense anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But at this point, it is really just a matter of harmonising some of the important notes, consent, or praise, or objections, should not be. I agree with my colleague Franic that some topics should be put on a table like this, because in practical life, and also in terms of the very things should be covered in some way, but that is not exactly the question of this moment, and of this law, but of what it should be about. But something else in the debate is worrying. We're discussing this bill here to make it more orderly. In this assembly we talk about anything, anything we talk about, we talk about for a reason that there would be more order in society, and that order would be respected. But from what I've heard from fellow Caine, I don't want to personally apostrophe him, but the topic that's going through many debates is actually supporting riots. I'm not going to tell myself that here in the House we abuse those instruments that are available to us, so the violation of the law we use practically for replication and change of allegations, we use for replication without having to have a replica with, the answer to our replica on the other hand, and in fact it's a kind of mess, a mess in the assembly, so if there's a mess in Parliament, then it's logical to expect this mess in society, and in the area it's very obvious. One of the amazing examples of riots, i.e. the mental assembly in which we live and where we are surrounded is, if you were driving on a tram, and I'm almost exclusively driving a tram in Zagreb, in Zagreb the trams are entering and where it says that the exit site is also going out where the point of entry is, and no one is bothered by it, it is considered a normal phenomenon. And in Japan when you get in, when you're on a train, then it says on the platform where it's yours to wait for the train, and of course it makes sense that in 14 seconds the train comes and goes and that you're in your seat on the train. Maybe it's a paraphrase, I mean a paraphras of a saying from the last state, and at the time, in which they differed then Yugoslavia and Japan. Japan was a country of smiles, and we were a funny country, that's what they said, because there's order being respected, there's no respect for order. So why should you respect yourself in building? Listen for a while, the illegal construction was almost socially recognized as the only possible category for someone to build themselves a needed housing facility, not for some profit. So why was it like that in the last state? Because we had a lot of plans needed, but unedited. So that's how we got into this country with the need to make a lot of plans that weren't made. We finally came up with plans, so that we could work on plans, and the plans were made we assume professionally, because that's how experts worked was adopted, to build on these plans forward. And all of what we expected was actually the best, most valuable in Croatian practice inherited times before, it was Istria. It's a huge disappointment to me when I came to Istria as president... tips for the state's spatial order, how many riots in the space were made, and how many Istrians were telling me how this riot in Istria happened, and it was particularly interesting when we got to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] where Slovenians were you, Slovenians who we always looked at as some step ahead of us in civilization development were, in fact, living under some tents, some houses that were characteristic of favelas or straws in Africa, and before that were BMWs, Mercedes or I don't know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It just impresses the level, the low level at which they were willing to work. So the issue of illegal construction, the legalization of illegal construction. If it is a particular social interest, or political interest, but we cannot say that it is something that is welcome, because we are practically legalizing the mess. If we legalize the building mess, if we legalize the mess in space, so why don't we legalize it everywhere, that mess that exists. So it's clear to me that the ones that are criticised here by the law, and it's actually the law that wants to introduce a certain order, that they want to get certain political points, that inside that is contained a terrible big demagogy, compared to voters living in illegal objects, illegal objects, but it's no problem believe me in illegal objects, but it's a problem in wild objects, it's a big difference, because we have objects that may have all the permits, but they're not okay in space. If you take a walk in Split, I won't talk about other cities, but I have the right to talk about my city, the boundaries, for example. where the other day I was at one ceremony, in a church, so it can't be cared through where one neighbor made life complicated for another neighbor. What my colleague Dropulić said, absolutely right, came to me to help legalize, when I said okay should pay for it and that, it can be legalised because the plan is possible to do so, she said that we should also pay for it. So why do we make two categories of people in this country, some who respect order and some who don't respect order. And if we're forced to do these things, for political reasons, for social reasons, so let's not at least say it's good, and that these people should go down hair all the time. Why should I wait for a building permit to arrange a parking lot in my own backyard for five years? And someone builds a garage and a house over the weekend with no problems. Why can someone close a balcony, change windows, change color and everything else without any coincidence? Because media creates such a climate, of course, and our representation here for such behavior that anyone can do whatever they want. But one thing is, it's one thing to get on a tram and get out of a tram, but another thing is a state in space. And the third thing is the situation in society in general, and also why investment is being stopped, if it brakes consciously, or which instruments are at our disposal which we do not use and which we have wrongly. So let's talk about the core of things, about the core of the problem. To make the law better, not to say that something that's a mess in society is good. So, I understand, many of the reasons for some people were justifiable why they got into such situations. The state turned to them very affirmatively, helping them to come up with something. To legalize, that I could trade real estate, that I could leave it for inheritance. But don't tell me again that 400 squares of living space is a social category, and we need to talk about it because this society needs to live too, this country needs to live. The state isn't government, it's not Parliament, the state is all of us. Our entry into the tram is a picture of us as we are. If the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is not good enough for us, if it needs to be aligned with the time we live in, if it needs to be aligned with the moment of economics that is different from the one that was 10 years ago, we do it. I like it when my colleague Franic in that segment needs help, why not? Let's talk, this isn't the time, let's force that moment to be. But favoring a simple mess, talking about how people should be encouraged to build lawlessly because if blessed today, why not bless him tomorrow? So what's the date? That's '68, February '68. The one we talked about or that's June 2011 etc. But if we were to put order in this assembly, if we weren't treated as messy as we are, maybe the picture in society would be very different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72532	Thank you. We have now reported four replicas. The first one was filed by a colleague named Ingrid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72533	A colleague that you have well sublimed here at the end of your debate where you say that the situation in the space is actually a reflection and a state of society. So I would agree absolutely with that because the mess in the space is a mess in the head. Of course, above all, the ruling ones who are responsible for it. The problem of illegal construction, people don't want to build themselves without law, are often forced in such a way as to wait for long licenses. I will tell you on the example of the city of Zadar, in the last year it was issued with the number and letters of five building permits. On the other hand, when the trade chains came, by the time I got back from Zagreb, the first floor broke up, and it was a field. That's what we had, and not only in that space, but in many others. So it's not normal for a man on his homeland, on his homeland where his original property is questionable and even a building plot that he's been waiting so long. So, then what and who favors it? And I wouldn't agree with you when you say 400 square meters isn't a social case. These are the people who inherited their property, who didn't buy it. Who didn't buy their parents or their grandfathers, that was always theirs. They've lost their jobs, not their own guilt, I can't work. Are they now forced to simply sell so that they can survive, so that they can eventually educate their children. So, that's the thing. I agree that it may not be a social case that bought yesterday, but the one that got into this situation without its own guilt is two very different things.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72534	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72535	My colleague Marinović how to answer that without perhaps going wrong, in a direction that I would not want to go because I do not like to politicise about things that are of professional nature. But I could agree with the problem that people of heritage land and that they should build on it, but they have to respect and they have to go according to the law. If they respect the law, then let's say where that law is frozen, which is where the reference person was talking about everyone wanting to be in the administration. But what you're wrong about, you're all right with this because I think the same thing, because it's a professional topic and a social topic that we can all talk about equally, but you're wrong – 40 years ago, I was talking about illegal construction in the Marxist stands. I can bring you that text printed in views. I've been on the Marxist Tribine several times, I wasn't a member of the party not because, but on the professional line, and that was a confirmation that it was necessary to discuss professional topics at the time, not just political topics, but the problem of illegal construction was started 40 years ago, if not more. And it was conceived for social reasons because people couldn't wait for an apartment through work advice and all. And then in order for social peace to be satisfied, it was tolerated that over the weekend my friends and I would pour a record or build in blocks in a hurry. But then the house is home, the house is home. I can show you 20,000 inhabitants under Kozjak how he lives. I can show you Mayashi in Split, I will not come to you in Zadar even though there are in Zadar, there are them everywhere. But if you have a built-in feeling that you won't work past the law, you won't do anything at all. I waited five years for a parking lot, and I parked 500 meters away from my house in Split. But I've waited five years to be an example of respect, but I don't agree that it took five years. But it was waiting because of the catastra, which is my house in a '27 catastro. The year hasn't been regulated yet. But that's now, we're spreading the subject to a lot of other things. But the illegal construction was started a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72536	Thank you. My Serbian friend, you're up for the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. A esteemed colleague, Roshin, spoke in his presentation of an extremely long waiting for the building permit itself. So, the question is that this society has been struggling with for a very long time, and that is exactly what is sometimes deliberately being produced to open up a new market. And then the question is actually how to fight corruption precisely in this system of issuing building permits, or documents related to construction and construction. The question is actually, and Roshin himself said just now in response to the replica, that this exists as a problem for 30, 40 years. The same things have been discussed for 30, 40 years. 30, 40 years ago, the underlying problems were the same as today when it comes to the entire system of building and building management. And what we need, we actually need to unblock the entire system, we need to make it faster, more efficient so that all the documents can be obtained spotlessly, in order to spot construction permits. Well, unfortunately, we're always spinning in the same circle and we're looking for solutions within the same system. The question is whether, as in some countries, competition can be introduced through public authority into the system of issuing building permits. Why it must only be once the administration offices so it is now transferred to the counties or cities that have taken over these jobs on themselves, why not do so as public notebooks authorized by public authority. They would be issued faster, a matter of responsibility, which is why the one who works in the city's office as an investor will be more correct in the conduct of his duty than someone who has public authority and whose personal existence and future depends on whether he will do it right or not, such solutions in the world have a lot to do. Why don't we engage in looking for different solutions because here while we're spinning around in circles we're constantly producing a system that deliberately brakes because it opens up a new market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72538	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica of my colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72539	A fellow fact is that the mechanism is slow and trom but the mechanism is not so steep and slow based on the law but on the basis of practice. And when you talk about practice, then don't talk about principles, don't talk about individuals, talk about people, and when you talk about corruption, then talk about a person, not a system. The system can only favor corruption, let the government have a higher temperature in the air, so let's be quiet, so whether or not your head hurts, these are the circumstances that suit something, but they didn't create it themselves. Let me ask you, not maliciously, are you corrupt? So you're gonna tell me you're not, I believe you're not. Would you be corrupt if you were a civil servant in issuing a building permit, you wouldn't, because you are not corrupt by your composition, your habitat is not such as to be corrupt. Do you understand me? So the system works depending on our ethics, each individual. I'm always talking, I just said it, and I'm gonna do it again, we're all state. It's not an abstract country category, but those who run the state have felers like we have felers, someone more someone less, we're trying to choose the ones that are the best, do you understand me. But one problem is projected everywhere, the riot of getting into the tram, the mess of giving a building permit, and as far as the amount is concerned, because Ingrid also mentioned 5 permits, in Biograd you couldn't get a building permit for a while because there was no official who would have done it, because no one wanted to get a job on that job. And I wouldn't deal with business or politics like the press or the media or the public says you're all politicians corrupt, you're all parliamentarians unworked, so who's going to go to the place you're getting the Stigma that you don't think belongs to you? Why would a man deal with certain things, if I went to the building permit office to be told that I was corrupt because until I got the money he wouldn't give it, he wouldn't come, it's the problem of a society where there's a negative selection. You understand, where you have the perception that some jobs are done only by people who are of low moral value, you wouldn't be corrupt, I wouldn't be, I believe for all of us here. But I don't rule out corruption for any of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72540	Thank you. The replica was answered by a colleague, Franic, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72541	Dear colleague Roshin, here you are talking about the lack of work in the area which is indeed the cancer of the wounds in the Republic of Croatia because the legalisation of these facilities is which times and impossible, requires additional material costs to correct infrastructure, electricity, water, roads, sewerage, etc. Unfortunately, the deterioration of the situation occurred in the 1990s when, as one of the first victims of conversion and privatisation, the urban institute of the Republic of Croatia was founded far in 1947 precisely with the aim of managing the Croatian space. These people knew how to deal entirely with the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and not how it is now parked in municipalities, counties, cities etc. In addition, today urbanism is just one department at the Faculty of Architecture and there is already a conflict of interest because architects always tend to build as much as possible while urbanists think about space based on different studies including sociological studies, how much trade is needed, where in which extent, for which population density etc. Unfortunately today, the urban institute is in private hands, a stock society driven by capital logic and no longer can maintain and carry out its former function.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72542	Thank you, dear colleague Franic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72543	I understand your personal sensibility for the Croatian urban institute, and I think it's a shame it's not there's no such thing as no urban institute in Split, but it's a story that we can talk about a lot has no direct connection to this, but the problem is that one archive of plans and everything else is lost if not the rest. If I'm sensitive to something else, when you say it went wrong since 90, then the association goes to the creation of the Croatian state, then there can be some parallels that are very ugly and are neither patriotic nor governmental, so it's not good to hear them, that you said since Croatia and we entered a new system of management in which private capital, in which capitalism ruled that changes happened, then you'll come to the fact that the abolition of the urban institute didn't happen in 90 years, but much later, that the institute was privatized when other organisations were privatized and what's bad, I'm now responding to what you said I wasn't giving you a new replica to your new one. So, it's objectively a pity that there are no urban institutes in cities at least not in big cities, but that's not the problem and it's not being lifted so that someone can manipulate it, but because someone wasn't aware enough that it shouldn't happen. I know the problem in Split of abolishing the urban institute and why it happened and how it happened and where the building collapsed, but it has nothing to do with what we've talked about so far. It's not, it's not, it's a big difference whether something comes up as a system category, a thought-out category at state level or recklessness at local level or local interest. A colleague, DRopulić, said excellently just before most of this is happening locally, but at the local level, the level of education is much lower than at higher levels. And not to mention how many Croats travel around the world, do they travel to see and learn or to ski or to do shopping. We're sending schools on a field trip to Spain for disco clubs instead of seeing some Spanish. It's the same commercially you know. It's all the same picture, same pasta.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72544	Thank you. And the last application of the replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72545	Thank you very much. My colleague Roshin, you have described very vividly the problems in this area and I would point out that the problem is particularly the lack of professionalism at local levels and is not the same situation in all places and local environments. Somewhere professionally referred to investors, and somewhere really not, somewhere the problem is to get a license where you have to get a license, and somewhere you get licenses where it depends on who's going to apply for a permit. The previous owner can't for years, and when he sells to the new owner that owner gets in 15 days. And it's from area to area, it's different. It's unacceptable for someone to wait for a building permit and have all the documentation, and there are cases like that. But it's also inadmissible that someone who has a power license can't connect water and electricity because they won't connect water and electricity to it and he's got a power license. So how is it possible that he got a power building permit? It's also not just a problem of illegal construction, it's also a problem of building with permits. Since it's not a shame some architects are doing projects so they can watch the Dnevnik from their balcony in the neighbor's apartment. No kindergarten, no parking, balcony to the balcony, you can cross, you don't have to get out of the building without going for coffee next door. And how it's possible that someone's ever been illegally building. So what does the inspection do? Ten years in the center of town at sea made a villa, no building permit. One problem in Croatia, Royce, he's the only one who's having a house crash up there. Well, if he's the only problem, then we don't have any problems. And where those 30,000 people don't collapse and that's two times scary to Royce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72546	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Roshin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72547	If I opened my cave, you know how much it would start to pour and what all the examples of everyday life could say. But you have touched something that is not only in the field of urbanism, spatial planning, construction, but generally in our society extremely important. We declare ourselves a land of knowledge, and we are mostly a land of ignorance. And not only are licenses often not given what someone is corrupt or trom or simply unengaged or poor worker. Often, bans or no solutions happen to you because one who should give you solutions should be responsible for the solution it brings. And since he doesn't know that he's not sure of his knowledge then he doesn't. But it's not just an area of architecture, of construction, it's an area of everything and economy and rights. You'll have examples, you have a million examples of items standing because someone doesn't dare sign. And today someone doesn't dare sign the papers, so after a month, there's a signature waiting for someone to give you because it's not sure if it's going to be a political opportune, whether the media is going to react backwards, and he's not sure about his profession in his knowledge that he can get up and say, wait for the best man to tell me whether I have the right to give or not. If you don't think I have the right to give, and I want you to write to me that I have no right or vice versa. The problem is my people, I'm going back on the case once I talked to him here in Parliament, I wrote an article on the PDO regulation, I personally wrote an article on the PDO regulation that was the subject of the debate. And the reference officer tells me, this isn't what you think you wrote, it's what I tell you to write. Well, wait, if we have that kind of practice, then that's how it is. We're fighting that kind of practice. Ignorance is the biggest problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72548	Thank you very much. Here we have exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas. Before I give the Secretary of State one word. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports will hold a committee session today at 2.30 p.m. at Janko Draskovic's hall. Since there are no further objections, the final secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72549	I thank all the MPs and MPs for this constructive debate that I think is a little bit longer and it's been two hours. This just proves how important this topic is how life-threatening thematics are and how much in this topic there are many, many things that are arranged but the same thing that has been arranged today is still needed to improve. And here I would now first about this law that is before you, and that is especially true of Mr. Hrelj's distinguished representative, who was the only one who specifically questioned Article 290. I would like to reply that this article is one of the basic provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and that everything it writes is not only valid for the construction inspection but also applies to all other inspections in the Republic of Croatia, meaning traffic, sanitary and other inspections. So this is the procedure as it is and which we've copied from that law. It's about this particular thing. But here I would now like to say which sentence I think is the two key things that came up in this debate in the light of the day, and that is one issue of legalising illegal or illegal construction. I'm using this opportunity to say that we at the ministry are currently working on such a single law, and our plan is somewhere by the end of this month to make a special law that would, especially in the part of the legalization of the illegal construction of agricultural buildings, have been built into that regulation and thus attempt to speed up these legalities and illegalities of such buildings. It's one law. And we also estimated that in this law, existing as it is, it takes a little more corrections and corrections, or additions, to make, and that's especially true in these cuts of procedures to get the licenses faster. And with that law, we are in the final phase, and I hope that somewhere at the end of this month or next month, that law will be released into government or parliamentary procedure. Here's so much from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72550	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72551	I'm using this institute just to ask a question on Article 23 concerning the commission, deadline and appointment, I didn't get an answer. That's the only reason I picked up this bat because I don't have another one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72552	The Rules of Procedure did not say anything special, but the Secretary of State can answer that one more time because it is good that if there are questions that we should go home with answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72553	It's that one, one is variable, so I'm telling you it's prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. ... He's prescribed there, it's been a year. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72554	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted all the debates and answers regarding this law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72555	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 754. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 92 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. We're moving on, along with the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72556	The following three points do not currently have the conditions for discussion because they have not completed the committees and therefore we are going to - Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the EU-Natura 2000 Integration Project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 782 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. We have accepted the emergency procedure, and this is the case with the Rules of Procedure for any amendments. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the board's session were received on the benches. Does the Proposer's representative want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Zoran Šikic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic of Croatia signed an advance contract on 5 March 2009 and for the preparation of the European Natura 2000 Integration Project. On the basis of the above, the project in question has been prepared to contribute to the strengthening of the system of nature protection and to the establishment of an integrated ecological network, the obligations arising for all Member States of the European Union under the two Directives. A loan for the Natura 2000 Integration Project will provide support to public institutions operating national parks, nature parks and protected natural values in the implementation of Nature 2000 in investments, then strengthening the reporting capacity based on the European Union's demand and monitoring of biodiversity, and including all stakeholders in the Natura 2000 environmental network management process. Furthermore, the loan should help during the transition period, the nature protection system in the Republic of Croatia for the establishment of the Natura 2000 network. The European Union launched several lawsuits against Member States in the 1990s for failure to fulfil its obligations in the establishment of Natura 2000, stressing the importance of early preparation and continuing commitment to effective implementation after accession. Loans are also intended to build capacity of institutions in the nature protection system in Croatia, to meet those objectives, but also to prepare projects and apply for funds from the European Union's structural and other funds. In this respect, it will guarantee investment development. The government's decision of 25.11. to initiate the loan agreement procedure for the project in negotiations with the bank agreed on the text of legal documents, and on 22 February 2011 a loan contract was signed from which it is important to set out the following financial conditions. The loan source is 20.8 million euros, the interest is tied to a six-month EURIBOR increased by a fixed interest margin, the loan maturity is 20 years with 5 years starting, the payment model is in half-year meals, on 15 May and 15 November of each year and the last date of the loan is 30 April 2016. The Republic of Croatia is aware that the overall biodiversity and landscape diversity represents its fundamental value and main resources for further development, and the duty of all citizens is to preserve existing biodiversity within the country, and where possible to work on its promotion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Integration Project in the European Union's ecological network Natura 2000. By providing support in terms of this loan, we will certainly send a unique message that the Republic of Croatia will systematically expand efforts to protect its biological and landscape diversity at both national and local level and at your respected ladies and gentlemen MPs, please support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72558	Thank you very much to the esteemed secretary of state. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor further? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished colleague of MP Mirela Holy. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72559	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation on this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the EU Integration Project Natura 2000, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this bill. Regardless of our support for this bill, we would like to be answered by a few questions that we have failed to read in this material, and we think that they are very important when making a decision to support this law. The first question concerns how much will Croatia single out for the realisation of this loan, the way in which all the interest that Croatia will pay within 20 years of the loan, how much it will be, because we see that they will in principle be increased compared to these almost 21 million euros that Croatia will receive on the basis of this loan. Other things that interest us in the adoption of this law, and we would like to be made more clear to us are how this concrete project will actually be realised because, regardless of what the objectives of the project have seen, it is three basic works, from investment in the ecological network to the information system of the ecological network and strengthening the capacity to manage the ecological network, we are afraid that this is not sufficiently detailed, so it might eventually happen that instead of realising concrete projects that will improve the situation on the ground in protected areas and in the context of Nature 2000 we will spend a large part of the money actually on different consulting services which often do not end up in, meaning by the means of Croatian companies and Croatian consultants rather than international consultants, so we would like to have a little explanation for that. When we talk about this first part of the project to investment in the ecological network, it means the acquisition of goods, works and consulting services to support selected investments in protected areas and areas of the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia in order to help promote and strengthen integration with Natura 2000 objectives. This is quite undefined, so we would like to be explained exactly what this money will be spent on and whether, within the framework, these investments in the ecological network will be envisaged and the financing of the seed bank will be particularly important to the seed bank of endangered and indigenous species that are extremely important for biodiversity. And what about the proactive measures of returning certain indigenous species to valuable natural habitats or it's just going to be some kind of paper documentation again, different papers made by consultants. But who in the end won't be put into practice. In this regard, I would mention that it is quite unfortunate that the Republic of Croatia still does not have a register of natural goods and that no map of habitats has been solved, that we do not have good databases that would talk about the situation and where the situation is such that certain things need to be done or similar, and what has been seen relatively recently in certain situations related to the lake area on the island of Krk. It is, in fact, an area located within the national ecological network and where the Republic of Croatia has allowed it, or it has given a concession for planting permanent olive plantations, regardless of what is the national ecological network with a number of endangered species on that swampy terrain, which is very rare for our islands to work and on another water protection area where it is essentially forbidden to use any fertilisers that are necessary for planting such plantations. In addition, as a full layman in this area, it is absolutely clear that the olive culture is not exactly a success in the wet terrain. As far as this second part of the investment in the ecological network is concerned, and as far as buying the necessary fire equipment is concerned, that is fine, and we think it is necessary to do so. However, there are certain things that relate to other parts of the project, which are not quite worked out enough. The second part relating to the ecological network information system is the question of why loans are used when a particular aspect of this part can be financed from grants, or grants from the European Union funds, and this is particularly relevant to the communication and promotion of Nature 2000 and the ecological network. When we talk about strengthening the capacity to manage the ecological network there is also quite vague in fact what exactly these funds will be used for, and one of the big problems we see in this second part of the improvement of the setting of the boundaries of protected areas through the organisation of pilot programmes in two selected protected areas, given that everyone who deals with nature protection is quite clear that exactly in the area of setting boundaries of protected areas there is a very big mess and that unfortunately, in the last few years, almost nothing has been achieved in this important very area. We also see that this project provides for developing and introducing a programme for volunteers in parks, which is a valuable initiative. However, we are afraid that the current system of park management, especially national parks and nature parks, has shown a great disproportionateity between certain parks and certain chaos, and we believe that in this part should take a step further and think about the establishment of a national park agency that would rationalise these tasks in one agency because it is definitely not necessary for one nature park to have, each nature park has an expert, for example, ornithologist for such a thing, and then these experts can be used to carry out their activities in several different nature parks or national parks, which would certainly carry out a certain rationalisation, and a single system of management of these national parks and nature parks would be introduced. And I think that, in that sense, we should have a positive example, the way it's organized in the Ranger service in the United States that definitely has the best system, means protection or rangers in these areas. Here it is, I wouldn't have lasted any longer. I wish the secretary of state would answer some of these questions because we really wouldn't want the money from this loan to be spent on some things that may not be so important and important, or that these money is used in a way that truly protects nature in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72560	Thank you, colleague Holly. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Bozo Biskupić. Here's your colleague, Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72561	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So all integration projects special integration project from which one very important area is funded for all of us, for all of humanity, the area of nature is certainly very important. In particular, this area is very sensitive and because of this confirmation of this Loan Treaty between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Republic of Croatia, for the ecological network of the European Union Natura 2000, is actually the networking of the most valuable localities of interest for the European Union, but here I think we all agree that this is actually of interest to all mankind. To whom this project will help, and to whom this money will go, it will primarily help those involved in nature protection, in this case also the National Institute for Nature Protection, National Parks, Nature Parks, and the County Public Institute for Nature Protection, but of course the local population, and the eye, which also lives around protected areas, the scientific community, volunteers and nature lovers, and, of course, the nature itself, that is, the preservation of its situation as it is today, even as it has already been violated. After Croatia's accession to the European Union, part of today's ecological network of the Republic of Croatia will become part of the European Natura 2000 ecological network, based on the European Union's specific regulations on nature protection, and then we will have the right to withdraw funds from a complex system of funds, which is related to nature protection, which is, this time, we have heard about 20.8 million euros, and we will also have large obligations concerning the preservation of favourable habitat status and properties that enter the ecological network of nature 2000. Given that the European Union does not give countries which approach the transitional period for the establishment of the Natura 2000 network, other than offering relatively demanding procedures to finance the protection of nature from funds, there are also very convincing mechanisms and penalties measures for new members in the event of failure to fulfil the obligation and the establishment and maintenance of the Natura 2000 network, this means that we will receive should be used very well and efficiently. We expect that the project will help the nature protection sector and other related sectors to establish an integrated ecological network, which will be in line with European Union legislation on nature protection, as well as with the Birds and Habitats Directives. In this sense, the most important activities of the project are related to the great inventory and biodiversity of Croatia, and the creation of maps of habitats, and teaching and support for further development of systems for managing valuable information on biodiversity. This will not only help Croatia meet its reporting obligations to the European Union, but will ensure adequate monitoring and protection of endangered species and habitats for future generations. I am very important in assessing the proposed infrastructure investment itself in the ecological network, where smaller centres for visitors will be financed,... The paths, and other infrastructure that promotes the objectives of nature 2000, have the opportunity to learn during the project how to design and implement projects to protect and preserve nature with similar projects, which will in the future run for the Structural Funds of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, the capacity of public institutions to absorb funds from the European Union and its funds will be strengthened, with technical equipment, it is also important to finance equipment to protect and from fires in four coastal national and nature parks. The inclusion of the public, and especially the population related to protected areas and areas of the ecological network through education, and education is very important to me, because lack of education can lead to very large misunderstandings on the ground, let's just remember that tragic case on the Vran Lake, and on the possibilities of agricultural and information important building of new infrastructure, as well as the opportunities of agricultural and environmental programmes related to nature protection, and all together are an important component of each project, and these activities are always carefully developed in projects that finance and oversee the implementation of the World Bank. Given the local community and self-government mentioned above, they can certainly benefit greatly from this project, in a way that adequately supports developments in the field without direct burden on finance provided by this Government project. The question of how much Croatia will pay and what is the price, colleagues and colleagues have no price for nature conservation. The damage that's already been done, that the damage decreases, or at least to stay at this level that we're at right now, that's no longer the price. Not just for us, but for future generations. And here is the opportunity to finally remind us that we are very much in the initiative of the Republic of Croatia, this year, the United Nations has declared this year an international forest and I call on us all together to give support to this project when voting on this law and thus make it clear once again that this House has an opinion on nature as a unique value of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club will accept the proposal of the Law to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72562	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bishop. There are no individual applications for discussion. And in conclusion, an honorary colleague of the State has applied for the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank the SDP Club and the HDZ Club for supporting this law, which confirms the loan agreement, but only at the end of a few short answers which the distinguished representative Holly has set in her presentation. The previously respected representative, Biskupić, said that nature and nature protection have no price, but I will, in particular, deal with the financial document, say that when we add it all together, it will be, so 3% will be the interest Croatia will pay in time of 20 years, with 5 years so on. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. A period, that there is no participation in this loan, that this loan is followed by an 8 million dollar gift from the World Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think financially there are any, unless it would be a gift more favourable to financial resources than these. How much will Croatia invest? Croatia, our estimates and we know for sure what we have done and what we have done and what we will do and continue to do, and I will first give the information that the Member States of the European Union are natural costing a range of between 6 and 15 million euros per year. Our estimates are that it will cost us between 8 and 10 million euros. The annual total European Union annual nature of 2000 costs 6.1 billion euros. Our opportunities in the budget are not such, since Croatia is expected to make an extremely high contribution to the European Union when it comes to nature 2000, and why we cannot use the European Union's funds from that time-out, because we know when we can only use them, and we, in the competent ministry, first made the plan that we need to fulfil our obligations, and then we put everything we could on the list, an indicative list of structural funds and other funds, and what remains and we have no ability to finance, such as invertization and... activities transferred, since it is our obligation to make it now at the moment, and most of the activity comes down to this period until accession and the possibility of using funds and pre-accession, and means especially later structural funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say it's not true that there are no natural goods registers, there are, but he's not in digital form, he's going to be, now the part's over. Our commitment, which is also defined by the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, is by the end of 2011, and will be made available to the public. But the largest part, especially the most attractive categories, are already available via the Ministry of Culture's website, and it is specifically focused on sites that have the title-label Nature Protection.hr. We also have a map of habitats, a relationship to structural funds I said, and the boundaries when it comes to borders are digitized and will soon come on the agenda here for you to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act where we hope to verify that it will be legally founded and the digital border that is not so far. And everything we've done will be available, so we'll do it ourselves. About the National Agency of Institutes, i.e. Parks, we are also very serious about this, but we hold that there is still some preparation in this to do so in terms of everything that our institutions in Croatia mean, because one institution such as Plitvice Lakes National Park is not only an institution of nature protection it is also a significant driving, economic operator not only of one region but of Croatia, UNESCO's heritage and that we must prepare for something that we think is ultimately acceptable and what we are seriously thinking about. Here, I hope I gave most of the answer. I thank you for the support both the club and the other club gave and which I believe the MPs will also give by voting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72564	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. And we'll vote on this law when the conditions are right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72565	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for EU integration projects in Natura 2000, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 782. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for EU integration projects, Natura 2000. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 94 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72566	And in the meantime, the conditions were met because the committee and services held sessions did their part of the job, and related to the 9th item of the agenda, which reads - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 778 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The Government itself has submitted amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law, which is in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and at that time amendments may be submitted. The Authority for the Protection of Competition submitted its preliminary binding opinion pursuant to Article 10(2). State aid laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the board's session were received on the benches. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Mario Babic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, allow me to say a few words about the amendment and addition of the Maritime Code. As is known, the Maritime Code was adopted in 2004 and is a chamber of property and public law regulations in the field of maritime law, maritime navigation, ship exploitation, maritime, maritime, maritime space, crews and the like. Four are the main reasons why we have proposed amendments to the Maritime Code. First, the harmonisation of the provisions of the Maritime Code with the legal acquis of the EU in the maritime area. Then, introducing so-called "tonnes tax", i.e. tonics for Croatian shipowners, the completion of the reform for Croatian seamen and the harmonisation of the Maritime Code with the General Administrative Procedure Act has been completed. In relation to compliance with the EU acquis, I would like to stress firstly that we will regulate European research practice, i.e. the examination of maritime accidents. The most important provision is that future maritime accidents will not be investigated by the ministry and the ministry bodies but will be done by an independent body, which will absolutely achieve greater independence and better judgment in the investigation of the cause of the accident and propose appropriate measures. I must say that we do not intend to set up a special agency, but these jobs will be carried out under the existing Air Safety Examining Agency, and experts from the maritime area will be hired during each maritime accident. Secondly, the area that is in line with European legislation is the implementation of the Maritime Labour Convention, an extremely important convention for the social, labour and health rights of seamen. In this respect, the implementation of the Convention shall, firstly, be prescribed from the inspections carried out in respect of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the Convention, then the rights of the crew to appeal, the objections in the event of non-compliance with the conditions laid down in the Convention and one specific provision relating to the cost of repatriation of the seamen to be landed and returned to the Homeland. In fact, it is not permitted for a seafarer to charge a fee for repatriation purposes, but for that the means must be provided by a shipowner. The third area is the establishment of management and surveillance of maritime transport in the territorial sea and inland seawaters of the Republic of Croatia. You know that a few months ago, a radar system of maritime traffic management and surveillance was launched. With this implementation of the EU guidelines, we will regulate the way in which we work to monitor maritime traffic management. The following provisions relate to the rights and obligations of the State, flags in the implementation of international regulations. Another important area, as I said, is the introduction of so-called "low tax" for Croatian shipmen. It is known that according to the current provisions of the Maritime Code, Croatian shipmen are freed from profit payments in international navigation. The norm is built in to create conditions for Croatian shipowners who have been released from the National Register at the beginning of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia to return and enroll all ships in the Croatian register. The measure absolutely had positive results. The majority of Croatian ships are registered in Croatian registers and thanks to the first row of such tax relief measures from this period from 2004 to 2011 31 ships were built for the needs of Croatian shipowners, which cost about a billion and 30 million kuna, a dollar pardon. Ladies and gentlemen, before joining the EU, such a provision can no longer exist in the Maritime Code because European practice does not know the full exemption of shipowners from profit taxes. However, the European shipowners also faced a problem in the 60s and 70s that their shipowners were mass-recorded from national registers of maritime states such as the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark and were enrolling in the so-called The flags of convenience. Individually, countries have found various ways to stop ships in national registers and one of the measures that has shown good results has been to introduce so-called. tonne tax or tonage tax. What's this about? That shipowners do not pay profit tax by real profit but pay taxes under that tax fixed, and that tax depends not on their business but depends on the size of the ship, net tonage and is therefore called ton-tax. Tonage tax absolutely had an impact on the development of the European Maritime Area, so when we look at the European Union as a whole, then we can say that the European Union is the strongest maritime state in the world. What do we propose to these changes and additions? First, Croatian shipowners who have ships whose boat is... allow for sailing outside the territorial sea of the interior sea waters of the Republic of Croatia are free from paying taxes on profits, are already paying tax per tonage or tax depending on the size of the ship. To get the shipowner into the so-called so-called. the system must meet certain conditions. In the first row, it must manage these ships from Croatia, not from abroad, but from Croatia, the headquarters must be in the Republic of Croatia, the ship refers to ships owned or leased or ship operated by it as manager. In particular, in order to enter the Tonnage Tax System, certain conditions must be met, I would particularly stress the condition that ships in the Tonnage Tax System should not be stopped over a period of three years more than twice due to non-compliance with safety obligations in any port in the world means, the first condition of excellence or the condition of ship safety. Another condition I would also like to emphasise is that any ship that has a ship in the tonage tax system must be loaded with the appropriate number of deck trainers, machine trainers, in which way we intend to resolve that completed students, completed maritime schools and maritime colleges find it difficult to find a place to perform a traineeship. Tonnage tax is optional, the shipowner can enter the system if he wants to, he must stay in the system for 10 years unless he meets the requirements of exiting the system and retroactively repays the funds given to him as support. The boater must have at least 40% of ships, when entering the system under the Croatian flag and during the course of those 10 years, that percentage of ships under the Croatian flag must not fall below 40%. This issue in Europe has been resolved through guidelines governing state support, and we can really see this as state support and Croatia as a maritime state, I absolutely think that it must install such a provision in its legislation, and besides, we are at the door of the European Union and we must have the same conditions as our competitors in the European Union. The next question we want to address, which we consider extremely important and alone as a former sailor, is that I am happy that we have come into this situation so that we can talk about so-called. A certified internship or training with extended duration for Croatian seamen. In 2004, we started as we called reform for Croatian sailors, at the time I must stress that only 240, 250 sailors were in the pension and health system of the Republic of Croatia, and about 20,000 sailors are sailing around the world. After the opening of this system today we have over 13,000 sailors enrolled in the health and pension system of the Republic of Croatia, they have all the rights that Croatian citizens have, all the rights that the Constitution provides for all Croatian citizens. The issue that had not been resolved was the question of the benefited internship, i.e. the lengthy period, a question that has been waiting for 20 years for a solution, a question that has burdened Croatian sailors. According to the results carried out by foreign labour organisations, according to the results carried out by our scientists, which was launched by the maritime union and according to the statistics provided by the Ministry, the seamen, after 60 years of age, are difficult or unable to board a ship, i.e. they do not meet the health requirements prescribed by Croatian and international regulations. According to our data, 75% of the sailors over the age of 60 can't get on board, I can't extend that famous naval book or matrix and then become a problem of society. The countries in the world have solved this issue differently, some unfortunately not, and some in the way we suggest. Namely, what is proposed by these amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, is that the Croatian Seafarer, regardless of the flag under which he sails, no matter what call he is boarded on board, regardless of the type of ship, and regardless of the category of sailing. In national navigation and international navigation can go into retirement at the age of 60 and 15. Or 12 months on board a ship are recognised as 15 months. I think it is a minimum that we must respect for Croatian seamen and that we will thus come to the level of the European countries that are very much taking care of the socio-health conditions of the seamen. And the next question we have resolved through the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code is compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to accept this amendment and supplementation of the Codes if I may say so, please also on behalf of Croatian seamen who are monitoring the session of the Assembly throughout the world. Thank you very much. The Ministry, i.e. the Government, accepts amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72568	Thank you very much. So they become an integral part of our debate further. Greetings to the sailors. And on behalf of the HNS club, HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja. The committees? The board presidents want to hear from you? No, I don't. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72569	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is indisputable that the Croatian Parliament will support changes and additions to the Maritime Code. Whether it's unanimous or large majority of the vote, but I don't think there's any dilemma. A clear assessment of the situation has been established of the objectives which seek to achieve these amendments and amendments to the Maritime Code. Of course, the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia is to bring its ships under its flag, so as few ships sail under the flags of convenience. Of course, it is also very important and very good aim for the Maritime Code to regulate the working legal status of seamen in international navigation, whether in national navigation, to engage in a mandatory pension and health insurance system and in a tax system. So, that is quite enough to approach, of course, with the harmonisation of the EU acquis, these are quite enough targets for this law to be adopted in order to achieve this amendment and supplement the Maritime Code. A lot of countries have started this procedure before, but not all of us, we're not the last and yet I think that this initiative has been adopted in time and that things are going in the right direction. Of course, when a country wants to attract a ton tax it wants to have income, it must accept certain other obligations not only income, which is that it will have to recognise a certain situation in the maritime labour market, which is that they objectively cannot find their job after 60 years because it is very difficult to meet the very rigorous health criteria either domestic or international criteria. What I want to do is to trouble myself. In fact, the Maritime Code is such a law that wants to cover the whole life of sailors, so the whole activity of all sailors etc. And there's no reason for more than a thousand articles. However, no other law that regulates the land is the Mirovinski Law, the Pension Insurance Act, which also wants to settle the issue of all insurance companies and so does the seamen. And yet this is practically one precedent in Croatia's legislative practice that an integral part of the pension legislation will be as great a law as the Maritime Code because it is now with these amendments proposed by the Government, I must admit that I have not seen amendments to the Committee on Law, but I have. I don't know if the Legislative Committee has forwarded these amendments or accepted them, I don't know who the proposing is, but I have on the table of the amendment of the Government with which I agree in principle. I say with these amendments, this becomes a law that must simply be put into the context of the regulation of pension rights, so it becomes a package of pension laws. Otherwise, this is unusual because so far the state has solved its socio-health problems specifically related to the work of asbestos, its economic problems related to the closure of mines, the RAŠ Mine in Istria, by special law, here is a derogation from that rule. I have to point that out as a deviation from the rules. What is missing in these amendments is the fact that there are not enough criteria for early retirement, because according to these amendments, it remains only the fact that the seamen exercise their right at the age of 60 and at least 15 years of sailing training are entitled to full retirement at the age of 60. There is no analogy that with 55 I can go to early retirement with a reduction that belongs to everyone else because of going to early retirement. I also point out the illogicalness of the reasoning of the law with what it says in the amendments because it explains that this ensures that, as a rule, sailors with at least 30 years of age and at least 15 years of clean navigation would allow them to retire when they can't get that job. So this clarification in the law is not further explained, and I have to conclude that. What I'm saying is, it might be better the way it can be done later, if the marines' pension issues were governed by one special law. It's not just about this. But look, we need to be more specific and say that according to this law, tomorrow's long-distance captain, whose pension will be calculated, for example. 5 thousand 500 kn because I'm assuming he has a solid salary, he's going to have that pension cut by 3% of the health contribution first, and since this law is not going to be an exception, but it's a special pension law that's actually going to get him another 10%, so what's left is going to be taken down by 12% of the tax, so he's going to be out of 5 thousand 500 kn of the pension you calculate actually gets 4 thousand 600. We need to be correct and say that it comes from the current regulations that we have in place and that's how it's going to be. I would therefore recommend, regardless of voting for such a maritime code, I would recommend that this area be regulated by a special law with a problem that has not been addressed in an adequate manner, which is an early retirement issue. Furthermore, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will have one amendment to the 2007 International Labour Organisation Convention, if I am not mistaken, which in some way encourages social dialogue in maritime activity and instead of what you have entered here in the amendments and additions, which the Proposer has written, that the regulation, which would not make it any deeper than always have to be sweating, edits the working, living and social conditions of the seamen, will bring the minister, with the consent of the minister responsible for the work and the minister responsible for social care. I believe that this provision directly affects the reduction of one civilization's reach in Croatia, and that is the level of collective bargaining achieved. I know reliably that sailors are strong in collective bargaining and why bring and bring this amendment. Instead of this change, the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will propose that working, living and social conditions be more detailed than international standards, more detailed than what this law prescribes, offices collectively spoken, and I would ask you to accept that amendment in the spirit of the Convention as well. So that's about the law itself. Of course no one here can talk about the global law because it is indeed a maritime code, more the law of the profession and the laws of all seamen and we must respect their experiences. What we need to look at is one story that perhaps by accepting this Law of the Sea or its amendments and supplementation we will get perhaps a very good legal framework, but in the operationalisation of life we have objectively many bigger problems. Namely, there is a problem that Croatia, or the Croatian Parliament, has not ratified the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation No. 108 and No. 185, and our Croatian sailors have a problem. So, in particular, they cannot land in Brazil ports, they cannot make a change of crews in Brazil ports because their seafarers are not in line with international regulations, i.e. Croatia is not a signator of the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 108 and No. 185. I know that the Croatian Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Shipowners' Association, Croatia's Maritime Union, is trying to solve this problem on a bilateral basis, but we are overruling our sailors' dependence on other people's authorities. Therefore, I would like to appeal from this place and from this assembly speaker to prepare this Convention of the International Organization for Ratification in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, although it is one process which must be strictly respected and that the competent ministries adapt our navy or matrix to those international standards. Indeed, this sort of thing for us as a country that wants to be serious, which wants to be a seafaring, which boasts of its maritime history and tradition, that something like this, these problems for our sailors simply happen to us is totally unacceptable. Therefore, I hope that Mr. Secretary of State will also give an explanation at which this is now in its subsequent address to the Croatian Assembly, is this indeed a problem for Croatian sailors, and I hope that this will be settled soon and that we will soon have that agenda point before the Croatian Parliament, ratification of International Labour Organisation Convention No. 108, or number 185, which was nominated from 2003. Here, in essence, there might be a lot more to talk about details and elaborate and amendments from the government that came to this law. I don't know if I'm saying re-adjusted amendments to the Legislative Committee, but I know for a fact that this is the result of negotiations between the Federations of the Seamen of Croatia and your Ministry, or the Government, and that it wasn't quite as idyllic as it says in the Government's amendments, but that the negotiations took place practically a few days ago. So that the negotiations were under way, that a proposal had been prepared before which it was found not good enough, that then the amendment intervened on the amendment and addition of the Maritime Code. Regardless of these shortages, the quality is far greater than possible shortcomings, therefore the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will be happy to support this law. We are particularly pleased that our ships are returning under our flag, and that our citizens are protected by the social systems of the Republic of Croatia, our citizens, our sailors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72570	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is next, and on behalf of the club will be spoken by a distinguished colleague, Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72571	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam and Madam Representatives. Here are the amendments and additions to the Maritime Code. We know that we adopted the Maritime Code in 2004 and then the amendments and additions in 2007 and then the amendments and additions again in 2008. As we know that international maritime entrepreneurship is extended, it seeks to remove differences in maritime law, and the different national rules on maritime relations are impediments to the smooth development of maritime navigation and trade and cause legal uncertainty, and therefore it is necessary to unify these regulations or maritime law both in the field of maritime property law and in the context of public and maritime administrative law relating to the safety of navigation and this becomes an imperative of today's. In fact, the navigation activity in its nature covers several countries, so it is necessary to regulate the area as a single unit and to regulate it in content by equal rules, i.e. uniform. Equality is achieved by international conventions which the states vote at diplomatic conferences, so they need to be ratified, confirmed and subsequently applied. Equality is also needed because of the fact that maritime law originally belongs to the continental legal system, but it is essentially a mixed legal system because it contains a number of elements of Anglo-Saxon law and specialised international organisations by their actions in the preparation of conventions contributes to and is perhaps the most prominent international maritime organisation or better known as IMO. In the continuity of unification, new conventions are not only adopted but are amended, complemented by existing and as a result of continuous, technical innovations in the construction and use of new, specialized types of ships adapted to the needs of the market, increasingly rigorous standards on the safety of navigation and protection of human life, property on the sea known as the salaz. These efforts are accompanied by increasingly demanding conditions and standards of international protection of the marine environment, and our Croatian legislation, or the Maritime Code, follows new solutions, as I said after 2004, 2007. Then the amendments in 2008 and here we are now facing these changes that we have heard the opening talk from the Secretary of State. Therefore, the first amendment relates to equating with the acquis of the European Union and related to maritime accidents. Then, regarding the Labour Convention, that is, to control territorial waters and national flags. What is the second change is very important is the ship's tax status. Instead of exempting from paying the profit tax, a new tax is introduced according to tone or so on. tonneage tax or tonne tax. This should be a tax measure aimed at encouraging the return of shipowners to the registers of the Member States of the European Union, and this system of taxing according to the tone introduced by these amendments and additions to the Maritime Code encourages shipowners to board Croatian seamen on their ships and most of all to work on a training internship or more famous cadetura, which will significantly increase the competitiveness of our seamen on the world labour market in the maritime sector. So one condition is the safety of ships that the secretary of state has already spoken of. The second condition is that a number of machine cadets must be boarded, i.e. decks, thereby introducing them into the world of the labour market. The second, third and third amendments relate to the working legal status of seamen in international navigation, i.e. their inclusion in the mandatory pension and health insurance system as well as in the tax system of the Republic of Croatia. It is known that the Republic of Croatia, but also in the countries of the European Union, is an interest in this maritime interest, i.e. for all maritime states, is in a significant decline leading to a great lack of seamen in the long term, especially the officers' staff. It is known that in 2007 we spent so-called Social reform for seamen, which enables them to be introduced into the system. After that reform, about 13,000 sailors in international navigation are included in the system as new insurance companies, and now we are moving to complete the social reform that is largely contained in the amendment of the government that we received on the benches. Based on the marine evidence issued, there are estimated to be around 27,000 seamen in the Republic of Croatia, half of which are maritime officers and in addition to our maritime business, about 250,000 citizens are all connected. There are about 1.25 million sailors in the world sailing on about 90,000 ships. Of these, there are 443,000 sailors in the European Union, and there are currently around 35,000 maritime officers missing on the market. And another curiosity. It is known that the Philippines with about 230,000 sailors are the largest, if I may say so, world supplier with that workforce. It is also known to all of us that the interest or calling of the seafarers is the property of our coastal area, where historically because of its stingy hinterland and island, there was no choice but to turn the sea and conquer it, to be its master, and even more its servant. The old ones knew what the navigators meant, you won't be six, and you don't have to live. The sea fed them, warmed them in winter, cooled them in summer. The sea has always been the best relationship with the world, but the sea is a challenge. It is a living being and should be known to adapt its temper. And we're witnessing today how life on board is changing and how fast it is with time. Today, conditions are much more humane, so even bread with 7 crusts seems a little softer. The amendment of our government has also arrived and our government is obviously deeply respecting this interest through this amendment has proposed the return of the benefits of a work force which was one of the objectives for which the Croatian Maritime Union has actively advocated, so I am using the opportunity to welcome up our secretary, Mr. Bracadour. So, the Marine Union stood up, and later other maritime unions and associations joined. Benefied internship and solution for a large part of the problem facing today's sailors because we have heard that today's sailors already have problems in 50 years of life, and there is no longer the possibility of landing as it once was taking care of parent homes within companies. And that is why we will surely support this amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the completion of social reform, and I will repeat it once more. For every 12 months carried out boarded as a crew member regardless of the flag, regardless of the calling, regardless of the category, regardless of the domestic or foreign company for 12 months carried out on board will be accounted for by the working duty of 15 months. It is also another very important provision that at the age of 60, so the retirement pension, unlike the rest of 65, is to be retired, subject to at least 15 years of boarding training, or navigation as a member of the ship's crew in international navigation, national navigation. So from the age of 60, 15 years of internship, which I think is a very, very important step, and that perhaps, I'll say freely, is the correction of an injustice that has happened to sailors in recent decades, but I think today is really a big day for Croatian sailors. Finally, I would like to wish the sailors on behalf of the HDZ Club who continue the millennium tradition of seafaring on all world meridians and parallels, the calm and friendly sea, the pleasure of doing demanding work, the achievement of career progress, happy return to homes, and administrations and companies, sailors not only of good sea navigation, but also of unpredictable world markets. Convinced that the amendments to the Maritime Code and the shipowners, as well as to many maritime families, will bring joy and satisfaction, I would also like to say that the HDZ Club supports these amendments and additions to the Maritime Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72572	Thank you. SDP club and distinguished colleague of Luke Denon. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72573	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Today, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, with a final proposal for a law. Of course, one such problem concerning all our seamen, and with these changes which are, three key changes that are proposed here, we expect that the seamen will indeed have the status which, in Croatia, deserve as equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These days, at least I read somewhere in the media that in Croatia, we are looking for other brands that we know as athletes who are recognizable in the world, and besides some other brands of tiny individuals we have, which would be the brand of Croatia. As I come from the sea, and as we know that Croatian sailors have not once and in peace and war illuminated the face of our country, and by their efforts, by their own expertise, and I would say to my own solidarity which they have shown over the centuries how much Croatian sailors have earned such an interest and deserve, of course, that they can then have such branded status in the Republic of Croatia, because when you say Croatian seamen, then you say it with certain pride, and I am sure that such status has also been shown to the world and thus show that they can be large people and great sailors from a small country. Therefore, it is surprising that I will first look back at the important issue regulated by the Maritime Code, which is this equal status of seamen in international navigation, and their inclusion in the mandatory pension and health insurance system, as well as the tax system in the Republic of Croatia. It is surprising, therefore, when we read this bill, without amendments to the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia which came to us later on, and I will say that this law carries the date of 11 April 2011, where it is determined in the light of this law that it is the introduction of so-called. the certified training for sailors, to prove necessary, due to the proven adverse impact of work, working environment and working conditions on crew members, and to the inapplicability of measures to protect on land in conditions of work on board, although not proposed by this law because of the need to comply with the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was adopted in April 2010. If this amendment had not been made to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, man would have really asked the injustice we have been talking about towards Croatian sailors, which has been going on for 20 years, is it possible that the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is contrary to the requirements, justified by the demands of the union leaders of people in the sea, to introduce an unfettered work experience. So here it is recognised in the explanation that it is nevertheless an interest, as our colleague says, to sail the sea, but without any professional, or to say professional, scientific studies, I do not know what, have found that this interest is indeed such that it should have special attention from the legislator, and of course these conditions under which they work must be valorised differently. Without studies, without scientific any exhaustive and consulting I am sure that our famous that the bread with seven crusts of sea bread is all said in that sentence because this weight of maritime occupation without studies and without any scientific exhausting consultations determines the need for sailors to have an unfettered work experience. So I wonder how in this proposal of 11 April this year, we have now also received an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where we are still talking about the benefits of working time, and why it is so. I, of course, am a politician, and not as a maritime expert, can determine that it is likely, that there are probably elections at the door, so I need to get one category of such people on my side, so I'm surprised that some things that haven't been solved for years can be solved when the election comes to us at the door. Therefore, one parallel should be drawn, and it should be said that in Croatia, because of the accumulated problems we have, not only in this part of the sea, but in all segments of life it would be necessary to establish elections or pre-elections permanently, so that some logic and things in Croatia would be resolved more quickly, more quality and in a decent way. So I advocate permanent elections, because then probably problems in Croatia would be resolved more quickly and efficiently. Of course, behind that is above all and long-term, I would say the struggle of the union, that in some way these rights are to such a government that has admitted that this naval life is the way it is, but here they have managed to then, with these negotiations, in some way, to enter into this law with their unfettered employment. I am sorry that it did not enter immediately, on 11 April 2011, but there was a need for further pressure from the union to recognise such status to seamen by amending this law as well. So this is something that seems not good to me, that the problems in Croatia that are long-term, which are very visible, which even the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts and acknowledges that they exist and that the life of sailors is slightly different than the life of all of us. That, in any case, it was necessary and necessary to make such a solution long before, long before, without such tensions in the public and about who is right, whether the trade unions or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since we are a maritime country and I believe that such a way of treating seamen in the future will also result in greater employment and greater interest of young Croatian people to deal with such an important profession, I am sure that this law will also help to ensure that there are no fewer seamen than there are more sailors who will present their work honestly and honestly both on foreign and domestic companies, in the way they have done so far, so that we are all proud of them. The other thing that's going on here or that's changing is, if I get the tone tax right, because so far we've had some kind of a different kind of boater relief. And this is now a tax, a special way of paying taxes according to which the amount of tax paid by the relevant shipping company in direct connection with the tonage it uses. The question is that, since we also had that first relief on the non-payment of taxes in international waters, income tax, the question is how many such reliefs have been given more ships under the Croatian flag. The secretary of state said that the number has increased and that now that the EU is entering the EU, this type of relief Europe does not know and that we are now going to each other, another species is also a relief, which is so-called. "tonne tax" which is here when it's read as much as it would by tone very minimal, is not some big tax. Will the Republic of Croatia lose or gain in its budget? It seems to me that if there is less money in the budget at first and in the budget because of this change that this kind of relief will ultimately allow us to have more boaters in Croatia one day and perhaps even a resurrection and some future Croatia Line that we have given up so infamously. I believe that this kind of good behaviour towards our sailors and the marine show will be slightly different and that more people on our Croatian ships will sail and that we will then be able to retrace these shows with interest. And what I would end up saying about this third change that's happening here and as a newspaper is being introduced by the Maritime Accidents Agency. Well, as I understand it, Mr. Secretary of State, it would have been with other accident agencies, whether these air or others, probably just one person who would then be using in those maritime accidents the expertise of experts in the Republic of Croatia at the establishment or analysis of such accidents. However, here it is said that it is estimated of course that the work of the agency in 2012 would require the provision of 580,000 kuna and 30,000 kuna for material expenditures. If it is one person and it will be located in already some rooms I don't know why such a large amount is needed or necessary, but it might be better if the law doesn't cost how much of this money is needed if it's necessary to have that Maritime Accident Agency as well. Here, I hope that this Croatian brand as I call it, which is the seamen of the Republic of Croatia, will contribute with this law their greater employment, greater interest of young people and that through this legislation and, of course, through this change of tone tax as it has been called here, we will also enable cadets and young people to carry out this necessary cadetura on our ships and need an insight so that then we really are the real maritime country that we are. I repeat, there should not have been such a long period of tension with the trade unions that something that has long since been established in that 7-syntagma of bread has long been said and said that maritime life really requires and requires that people who deal with these interests have this unfettered work experience as it is proposed in this law with the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The SDP club will, of course, support such a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72574	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72575	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatia is a maritime country with a long tradition, and our sailors have sailed all seas and oceans, and maritimeity is also an important economic branch. The maritime code regulates all significant public-law and property-law relations related to the sea, maritime navigation, activity and maritime vessels. These changes and additions proposed among other things allow seamen to leave early retirement from the age of 60 and at least 15 years of sailing training. This ensures that the conditions for obtaining the right to early retirement for which the justification is found in the fact that, after 60 years of age, in most cases, they cannot obtain a medical certificate that is a condition for them to board a ship. Namely, work, working environment and working conditions for crew members have a harmful impact on health, while measures to protect on-shore work are inapplicable under the conditions of work on board. THE profession is exposed to expressed psychophysical effort, longer working hours, and perhaps the most difficult separation from the family. The separation, or absence of a father and lifestyle marked by his departures, affects the whole family and especially children. That is why, among other things, it is said to be bread with 7 crusts, and today when working conditions have changed since the increased volume of work has been increased and the risks associated with the work on board have been increased. According to official statistics, about 70% of seamen over the age of 60 can no longer receive a health certificate to extend the maritime booklet, so they can no longer sail and earn money. We at the Club of the Croatian Peasant Party are pleased with the proposed solution that provides the seafarers with an unfettered internship, since it is 13,000 sailors in international navigation and about 4000 in national navigation. In addition, we must express our satisfaction by completing the social reform process for seamen that started in 2007 when seamen were introduced into the pension and health insurance system and related to the tax exemption for seamen. As with other maritime states, Croatia is free from income tax payments if they spend more than 183 days a year abroad. And as these are proposed to seamen in international navigation, part of 183 recognised days that could be used for the journey to the ship, treatment or improvement abroad if they did not use them could be transferred to the next year. Furthermore, up until now, shipowners in international navigation have been fully exempt from paying taxes from the exploitation of ships, followed by a policy of the European Union that sought to attract profitable and secure shipping under the flags of Member States and in a way that ensures similar operating conditions for the so-called shipowners. flags of convenience. Now, according to the example of other European maritime states where it is already in force and for example, Germany, France and other countries are proposing to introduce a ton-based tax on which the level of tax is directly linked to the ton used. Regardless of his actual incomes and expenses. Tonne-based tax will be calculated in such a way that every 100 units of net tonnes of a ship participating in a payment system of this type of tax are paid by a certain amount and the method of accounting is taken over from a model of the same tax as adopted in Cyprus or confirmed by the European Commission. The introduction of this tax will have a positive impact on the development of quality shipping, and it also obliges shipowners to board their ships Croatian sailors in order to work out a training internship and, of course, significantly increase their competitiveness on the world market. In addition, it should be said that by introducing this tax from 2013 when its application begins, the revenues of the state budget should be increased and estimated at around 2 million kuna per year. In addition, the introduction of such a system improves safety standards. The protection of the seamen and the environment since it is proposed that the shipowner loses the right to a ton-based tax on a particular ship and thus becomes a payer for profit taxes. If a ship registered in the Tonnage Tax System has been stopped twice in three years, it shall not meet the standards of safety of the environment or of the living and working conditions of the seamen. In addition to all the proposed law, the remaining harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union is carried out and, inter alia, the establishment of an independent body to carry out investigations of maritime accidents and to propose measures to avoid them and to improve safety navigation. There is also coordination in the part related to the obligation to supply data as well as the definition of the data exchange body at national international level, which will improve the surveillance and management of maritime transport. Furthermore, in the port captains' offices, the Institute of Individuals of the Head of the Violent Procedure shall be instituted in place of the Council for Infringements of Port Captains and the provisions of criminal offences shall also be governed in relation to certain maritime offences. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this Legislative Proposal and Amendments since we believe that the proposed solutions will positively reflect both the profession, the status of the seamen and the safety of navigation or ships. However, we must also express our regret by the fact that in Croatia, as a maritime country, the interest in calling sailors is diminished. Maritimeity is deeply etched in the tradition of our people, and there should be no shortage of quality sailors in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72576	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72577	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received and it is good that we have received these amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Affairs, therefore, because they are in any case improving. We need to know that the Maritime Law was passed in 2004 and that it was for the first time that a whole legislative framework was presented in which all the significant public legal relations of property-legislative relations related to the sea, implementing activities and maritime ships were regulated. The aim was to launch changes with the task of equating maritime law with developed maritime countries to allow Croatian shipmen to compete on the world maritime market. These amendments and additions want to further improve some of the provisions of the existing Law, and I think they have succeeded in greater and greater. While the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the European Union legislation here, we get first instead of the release of Croatian shipowners in international navigation from the payment of taxes on profits, a tax system is introduced according to the tone of the ship. This means that the introduction of a tonage tax and, according to the European Union guidelines on State aid in maritime transport, will encourage the return of ships to Member States' registers. Therefore, the tax system is better than the usual profit tax given the tonage. Furthermore, what I believe is important, this tonage tax encourages our shipmen to board Croatian sailors, assistants and cadets on board their ships to determine the training internship, thus significantly increasing the competitiveness of our sailors on the world market. Furthermore, what I keep particularly important is that this proposal specifically prescribes the conditions for going to the pension of seamen in relation to the terms of the years and the working time. When we had the latest amendments and amendments to the law, there was a lot of debate in the Parliament on the benefits of the Navy's work experience, I don't think the proposal at that time was the happiest solution and I believe that this proposal solves it in a much better and better way. This proposal specifically prescribes the conditions for retirement. The very fact that sailors can no longer work in their calling after 60 years of life suggests the need to allow them to retire at that age. Therefore, according to this proposal, the possibility of achieving this special pension would be achieved by seamen who turned 60 and completed at least 15 years of training in insurance in national and international navigation. In fact, in practice, it means that it is practically those who have spent at least 30 years calling sailors who have 15 years of clean sailing that would be able to make a pension when they cannot get a job in the same title. The third resulting from this legislative proposal is also the path of the provisions on maritime infringements. It proposes bringing the EU's acquis into line in a section related to the establishment of investigations into maritime accidents establishing the basic principles of maritime accident testing. 4. and that is finally, the provisions of the Maritime Law are aligned with the 2009 General Administrative Procedure Act, which means that the Administrative Procedure Act applies in all legal matters, and only certain issues of administrative procedure are regulated differently if necessary and if not contrary to the Law on Administrative Procedure. I think this proposal is at the level of the tradition of Croatian sailors and that, as counterpart Shuica said, by applying it and adopting bread with 7 crusts will still be a little softer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72578	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72579	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although I see one general agreement on this bill and more than anything is said. I reported here as a man from the 10th electoral unit from Split although I was born in the surrounding area, but there are also my property that the sailors reported I thanked for this amendment, and especially for this amendment, which was subsequently accepted by the Prime Minister. Namely, starting with the three thesis mentioned here today, which is that it is to sail bread with 7 crusts and not have to live, it has to sail and what may be most important is that we are a maritime country, then indeed these amendments, and especially this amendment on the recognition of extended employment, so on. Well, there's really a place to go, and that's finally the right solution for the seamen. Of course, these other amendments have come well, these are the third amendments, the basic fundamental law has been passed in 2004 but, of course, every time there is a need for any change or so far that we have had EU adaptation to legislation come well. So I also welcome this one in some way whether a new or certain implementation of the Maritime Accidents Agency will make it quite easier to address such situations. The implementation of the Maritime Law Convention and the specific management of maritime traffic surveillance. These are therefore improvements and adjustments with EU legislation, which will simplify and facilitate many things. So, I warmly support these changes, and I especially thank you on behalf of those sailors and their families who have spoken to me for this extended work experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72580	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72581	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The maritime code was adopted in December 2004 and amended and updated in 2007 and 2008. The 2007 amendments and additions allow for the inclusion of seafarers in international navigation into the mandatory pension and health insurance system as well as the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, which takes into account all specificities of the work of the seafarers and their introduction into the system with certain reliefs, which are in line with EU guidelines. These amendments and additions to the Maritime Code are primarily in line with the EU's maritime acquis, the 2007 Social Reform for Seamen is completed and the tax status of Croatian shipowners is regulated by the introduction of taxes per tonne of the ship. The proposed amendments and additions to the law give power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a special regulation for the implementation of a security investigation to determine the cause of the maritime accident and to propose measures to avoid maritime accidents and improve the safety of navigation, and we have heard from the Secretary of State that it will be organised within the framework of existing agencies. Furthermore, the proposed law regulates the ship's tax status in such a way as to introduce, instead of the current exemption from profit tax, a tax system according to the European Community guidelines on State aid in maritime transport introduced in many European Union countries. Tonnage tax method for... which are being paid has been taken from the model... [[You don't understand.]] tax adopted in Cyprus and confirmed by the European... [[You don't understand.]] In addition to encouraging the development of quality shipping and the retention of ships under the Croatian flag, the Tonnage Taxation System encourages shipowners to board their ships in order to work out a training internship and to significantly increase the competitiveness of these sailors on the world maritime labour market, a more detailed arrangement of how the shipowners' obligations to board the trainees would be implemented in the sublegal act adopted by the Maritime Code. [[You don't understand.]] The proposed law also provides for the exemption from the deduction tax for certain types of services related to the financing and exploitation of ships. In line with international practice in shipping and the fact that this 20% tax serves to combat the avoidance of income tax, it should not refer to the payment of certain services related to the financing and exploitation of ships in international navigation that shipowners in the international navigation in the very nature of their work and the fact that it is a global industry are used in various countries. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of The maritime accounting code 183 days necessary for the release of seamen in international navigation from income tax enables seamen to make use of all unused days from the previous year. The proposed law also complies with certain provisions of the Maritime Code with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. That's how you do it, for example. The provisions of the Maritime Code which prescribe the same as those laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as the provisions of the Maritime Code which prescribes the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, shall be deleted. The proposed law also brings into line with the legal acquis of the European Union in the part relating to the establishment of an independent body to carry out investigations of maritime accidents, i.e. in compliance with Directive 2009/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 establishing the basic principles of the investigation of accidents in the field of maritime transport and amending Directive 1999/35, Directive 2002/59 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Maritime Code lays down provisions enabling the implementation of the rules and standards of the International Convention on the Labour of Seamen of 2006, or Directive 2009/13 of 6 February 2009 implementing the Agreement concluded between the Association of Shipowners of the European Community and the European Federation and Transport Workers of the Convention on the Work of Sears in 2006 amending Directive 1999/63. Further compliance with Directive 2002/59 is being carried out as amended and supplemented by Directive 2009/17 in the part relating to the obligations of data delivery, which are to be specified by the authorities responsible for the exchange of data at national and international level, which provides for the adoption of sublegal acts which will provide for more detailed conditions, methods and standards of the national electronic data exchange system, as well as the arrangements and conditions for the authorisation of free shipping and create conditions for the effective implementation of specific rules in the field of surveillance and management of maritime traffic relating to vessels in navigation. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code introduces an insurance arrangement with extended duration for seamen, so-called Beneficiary internship. In addition, due to the inability to meet the strict international and national conditions of the private capacity of seamen in certain years, they are no longer able to board the ship, so it is prescribed that the seamen are subject to the right to an age pension of 60 years, with a minimum of 15 years of insurance training as a member of the ship's crew. I would point out that I am happy to discuss today the proposed changes and additions to the Maritime Code because I come from the county that has a large number of sailors and a world-class affirmed company "Tanker Navigation", and given that last year I asked a representative question regarding the regulation of the Benefied Seafaring Train. I therefore thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for accepting the proposals... For this reason, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, as well as the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72582	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 13.06, it's past 10 minutes' notice. And now, Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72583	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Maritime Code, with a final draft of the law. As early as 2004, the Republic of Croatia adopted then new international conventions of maritime, administrative and property law and consistently and legalised them under domestic law. We have already followed the acquis of the European Union, and in 2007 the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which also followed new European legal solutions, came into force. This also enabled the closure of Chapter 14. Traffic policy. This government aims to strengthen Croatia as a maritime country and encourage Croatia's economic development as a land of maritime orientation that is full of potential. A relevant systematic and exact legal regulation that monitors the modern generalised European and global achievements and solutions is a fundamental prerequisite for the development of such a development direction. The Croatian government has proposed an amendment to the Maritime Code, which introduces an unfettered maritime service. It's a matter of health skills to work after 60 years of life. With the amendment, the government proposed that sailors have the right to retirement after their 60 years of life and 15 years of sailing. It is prescribed that 12 months on board an account as 15 months. That's how the Prime Minister kept her promise. As it is said on the trail of what the Maritime Union was looking for. This will concern 13,000 sailors in international navigation and 4000 sailors in national navigation. This proposal completes the process of social reform for seamen initiated by the latest amendments to the Maritime Code and in the matter of tax exemption for seamen. In fact, the seafarers were so far exempt from paying income taxes if they were more than 183 days abroad, and during those days the days of sailing, the days of travel from house to house and back were spent on professional training abroad. Only unused sailing days could be transferred to the following year. The news now is that during the following year, unused days will be carried out at work or abroad or treatment and more. This will result in a much smaller number of seamen being obliged to pay taxes. The maritime code also addresses the issue of a maritime accident investigation, which brings us into line with the acquis of the European Union. The news is that in future maritime accidents will not be questioned by the Ministry of the Sea, the Port Captain and others but will be carried out by an independent agency. That is exactly what will allow for independence in the investigation. The agency will be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and will be responsible for conducting a security investigation, proposing measures to avoid accidents and improving the safety of navigation. This will require the provision of certain financial resources. A ton-based tax shall be introduced for ships modelling other European maritime states, and as a condition that a shipowner and his ships may enter that system shall be subject to the loading of a certain number of cadets. It is an additional instrument to encourage the development of quality shipping, the ship's obligation to board Croatian sailors on their ships to do training. A shipowner in a ton-based tax does not pay a profit tax according to real profit, but pays depending on the tone of the entire fleet. It's a tax on which you can really say that it's a form of support for the boaters. Of course, there are certain conditions for entering and staying in the tax system. We've actually heard them in the debate. Our sailors are known everywhere and recognized in the world. The most important thing in the maritime sector is investment in the maritime cadre. Croatia is a maritime country, and this proposal of the Maritime Code is proof that in Croatia, some claim to seas are not only supported at a declarative level. He wants to defend the interests of Croatian seamen and Croatian sailors who are doing hard work, demanding and dangerous to whom they and many of their families depend. I believe that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code will affect the increased interest in maritime activities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72584	Thank you very much. Allow me one small remark. So this is how a relationship in the Parliament is supposed to be about 10 to 10. If that were ideally possible. Final State Secretary Mr. Mario Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72585	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to thank you both, on my behalf, both the government and the seamen, for responding so positively to the bill. I would like to answer to the Honorable representative of Hrelja that it is this week that we are going to refer to the Government for the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Convention on Maritime Libraries and I believe that this month we will be discussing in the Croatian Parliament on the ratification of this law. We are in parallel having preparatory talks with the Ministry of the Interior about these famous biometric passports or matrixes, and that's the part where we're late. But we're doing parallel talks with the Brazilian administration to give us some time until this issue is resolved. Mr. Honorable Representative said this law was passed pre-election. I have to tell you, you know everything can be politics. The maritime code is not a policy, and all of us who have worked on this law are somehow from the sea, so I have to say to the seamen that this is not pre-election law, that the benefited internship is indeed a 20-year-old problem and on several occasions the Maritime Code has changed and there has been no courage or means, understanding to solve this problem, and neither in the period 2000 to 2004. These issues began to be resolved in 2004. So, not before the election, but after the election, and the issue of maritime tax has been resolved, or shipowners, which has been resolved for 30 years and has not been resolved. We've also addressed the issue of social and health reforms for the seamen. We've introduced pensions. We built a school boat. We freed the sailors from some expensive extra exams. So we've done not for the sake of choice, but for the fact that we have over 20,000 people sailing around the world. It's about the law itself and the benefits of an internship. We really did. It took a long time to discuss it. On the one hand, it was argued that the trend in Croatia and the European Union was that the longer the working time lasted, and we wanted to shorten it here with the Law of the Sea. And there's a reason for the debate, there's a reason for the amendments, which is why the Prime Minister finally said we're going with the Maritime Code to solve the issue of the benefits of an internship because he's, now he's in the process, and when it comes to the order of the law that solves that issue would be a long time ago. That's how we handled it this way, just because of the sailors, trust me not because of the election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72586	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Now we'd stop by 3:00 and continue with the agenda final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, so at 3 p.m. Have a nice break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72587	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. The government submitted amendments and they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Goran Maric and the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments made by representatives Goran Maric and the HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72588	Both amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72589	What? Both amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72592	We continue with the afternoon session and begin with the point - Final bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 740 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72593	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Allow a few words at the beginning of the debate on these amendments to the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Last October, the Government of the Republic of Croatia ordered all the authorities of the State Administration to draw up amendments and additions to the Law from administrative areas in which the General Administrative Procedure Act applies, and therefore the procedural provisions of the Law on Fundamental and High School textbooks should be amended. Therefore, in the first article that we are modifying, which is Article 5(2), we propose that, in the context of this harmonisation, the word conclusion is replaced by a word solution, so in the event of an interruption of the procedure, an authorial dispute or anything else, that the minister actually intervenes with a solution rather than a conclusion. And another item changes that's item 17. 35th article, which provided that the catalogue of textbooks made up for the 2010 and 2011 school year, which implies that the textbooks contained in that catalogue will experience changes in that technical section, I would say, after the adoption of the textbook standard. It is about 3026 titles, when this process is being conducted, we should employ a number of experts from different fields and for these reasons, and in order for textbooks to last for a whole generation, as we have predicted it means for at least 4 years, we now suggest that the students and textbooks they bought in 2010, 2011, since they can be inherited from their older colleagues and used them until 2013, 14 years and we suggest that it be in the retail network as well means that such textbooks can be used until the year mentioned. I will mention here that there is a obligation of the Ministry to adopt a teaching standard in the way proposed by the parent committee or by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture that the training standard before the adoption is referred to the parent board which we will, of course, do after the adoption of this amendment, I would just like to remind you that the public debate on the teaching standard that we have proposed has been implemented and that we are actually in the finality of this work and that we can quickly put the teaching standard into practice and send it to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here's the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so much for the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72594	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, good. I'm opening a debate. First of all, there are clubs, on behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72595	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Despite the fact that this is about an amendment to the law that is a little bit, I dare say, a little bit and bizarre because if all the institutions were doing their job, we wouldn't need to bring this amendment to the law at all. The SDP Club will support the adoption of this Act for purely pragmatic reasons. Why did I say that we have a law that is not, neither would it be necessary, or these changes that would not be necessary here to discuss or bring if everyone was doing their job, are actually two things. The General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted in 2009 and applied and entered into force 1. 1. 2010 The Law on textbooks was adopted in March 2010 so three months after it was adopted, or three months after the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. If the Science Ministry team that was preparing the Law on textbooks at the time, it was exactly the same team that was now preparing for us these changes, following the laws of this country, then, at the beginning of the Bookbooks Act, it would be in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and now this first part of the amendment should not be changed at all. However, this kind of schlamper may not be the only case and we hope it will never happen again. The second part of these changes is because we have a lot of printed and unsold books in the publishers' warehouses, as I said we will support that change because it is not reasonable that all that value that has been collected in books is somehow destroyed and we agree that these books can be found in retail and next school year but, however, colleagues and colleagues, our support for this small change of law does not mean that we are satisfied with these solutions, nor does it mean that we think that the state is leading a good and optimal teaching policy. It's the opposite. WE now have to address this problem regarding these warehouses, which are still full of unsold books, we wouldn't even have a problem with having good and designed education policies, especially in this part of the training policy, and unfortunately this may be both the best case or best illustration and, unfortunately, bad and unimaginative policies. What's this all about? Why do we even have a problem? Let me remind you. Last March, the parliamentary majority and without our support passed a new Law on textbooks with the promise of easier school bags, cheaper textbooks and textbooks deprived of unnecessary things made according to the new textbook standard. What's the situation here after a little over a year? We will today either vote for approval today that books printed three years ago under old standards can be used in schools or retailes and next school year so somewhere by mid-2012. Why did that happen? A few years ago, the state was, and we know this well, all the states were buying textbooks for their children and those children whose textbooks were really needed, but they were both helping those parents and those families who might not have been so necessary. The Minister of Education at the time, and don't just tell me that it was some other set of things not to go back old, all the other people in the ministry are the same except the Minister, then the team then passed the current laws, and by the rules decided that those books that the state bought and what state property the students and parents should not return to the state but that they could keep them and that the state would buy all the books. At that time, a memorandum was signed with publishers who were then in line with that agreement and printed books. But then, overnight, the state decided to change its policy and, at the suggestion of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, it abolished free textbooks for everyone. And we today, colleagues and colleagues, after almost three years, are dealing with this problem originally from the state to say the ordered books and then the unpurchased ones and we're actually solving the problem, and we're going to be able to solve it for a while, and it really shouldn't have been a problem that it's adhered to the rules that adhered to certain established rules, and almost in some situations and reason. Furthermore, we expect more recently, as the secretary of state has introduced, the adoption of a new teaching standard, and it is expected that all existing textbooks will need to be reworked according to new standards. If this processing will not be significant and will not ask for changes to textbooks, then what is the new standard and what is the promise that will be done significantly differently? That's what colleagues and colleagues have at least two consequences. First, in view of this change today, it is expected that in schools we will have old ones and thus say according to the new standards of the newly reorganized book, that how they are now, or from last year's book, approved for four years of use, so for this school year, three more school years, the question of whether a new standard will be made because the entry is somewhere half a cycle of four years... the textbook will cancel this generation of this use of these textbooks, or after two years, let's look all over again from the beginning, let's go for four years. The question is, are we all going to have to buy all the new ones again, or what happened to the follow-up policy? And finally, a colleague and a colleague of several key and perhaps general notes. This case once again shows these changes once again prove that education is particularly devastating to do things backwards and in the same wrong way to bring politics because it is a very large system that includes very many people. I'll dare say you work so hard. First, in 2006, you passed the Law on textbooks that we have changed but every year, and then pedagogical standards that are being raised very questionably and which, despite the obligations of the teaching standards, the Assembly should report on their implementation once a year and bring annual plans with the implementation of standards we have had some kind of half-report in these three years. Then, after the standard, a basic Law on elementary and secondary education was passed, and then we again passed the new Law on textbooks that we are now changing, and that the only really important document at that time is the national curricula that determines what is taught at school, how is taught and what is the content of each textbook. This is the only really important document that hasn't been brought in yet. The logic of systems and good education policies would be to first pass the basic law and then somehow parallel curricula and standards and then the Law on textbooks and all other implementing regulations. This is how we solve the consequences again because the textbooks are the main consequence of the curricula because they are fully defined and, of course, if we do not have a basic document, and we do not have, we cannot and will not be able and will not be able to solve the problems we have with textbooks that we do not have to understand and which we really need to solve as soon as possible. Secondly, Mr. Secretary of State that the law has been in place for a year and 2, 3 months, when a small revision of this Law on textbooks is already being done, we in the SDP regret that in some way it has not been reconsidered, but now the whole law has not changed on the one hand its paradigm and the two major mistakes that exist in the existing law. When I talk about changing the paradigm from the existing Law on textbooks, I mean that in fact, the Training Law, contrary to what we have, should be just one of the instruments of education policy that supports the efficiency and quality of educational work based on contemporary curricula, therefore based on what is still missing in Croatia. Unfortunately, the applicable law which unfortunately does not change it in its idea and in the good part of the proposed solutions does not deal with what should be dealt with by a law that regulates education, which should be how to improve the quality of learning and teaching, how to innovate teaching. On the contrary, and motivated by the elements to be dealt with or to be dealt with by the Ministry of Social Welfare or the Ministry of Finance. Of course these problems aren't negligible, of course they can't be left out. However, with these motives and laws passed on these motives, we cannot expect a higher quality of textbooks. When I talked about the two deep mistakes that exist in the existing law, I primarily think about the provision of a law by which definitely teachers no longer have an independent choice of textbooks to work with, and the autonomy of teachers in teaching is one of the greatest values in education and as such is guaranteed by our basic Law on Education, and according to the procedure of the applicable law, this autonomous choice of teachers comes down to a possible advisory referendum. What we were saying when the law was passed, and what was confirmed after this year of application, in practice and therefore not only a theoretical teacher chooses one textbook, his activity chooses another and then all work together on some third textbook that I don't know 50 lips cheaper than those chosen. It is colleagues and colleagues not only stupid but also contrary to our best and best European educational practices. By the way, by dictating teacher autonomy in the choice of textbooks is unfortunately re-opening the door to almost mass corruption in that part because the practice is already well-known cases where, because of these or those interests, directors or active leaders are pressing on what textbooks should use on mostly younger teachers, and now the whole procedure is almost and legalised through this two-circular system of choice of textbooks. Secondly, the current law stipulates that each textbook is used for four years, so it has four years of sustainability. Until the law, so up to a year ago each textbook was worth unlimited as long as it corresponded to the contents of the curricula or the curriculum and the program. And I repeat what we said when we passed the law, if we wanted to have the sustainability of textbooks and consequently allow the textbooks to be inherited, we think it would be smarter to devote a lot of time to the initial review of textbooks and check textbooks before they get final approval for school use than actually to break such administrative solutions stories mostly through parental wallets. When we limit the whole story to four years, and after four years, follow all the new books, why some textbooks wouldn't be worth 8, 10, 20 years. However, these amendments to the law have not decided to revise some of the key problems that exist now under the current law. And in conclusion, despite the fact that we now have little changes to the laws that I said at the beginning we should never have had as a change to the law that simply everyone was doing their job and perhaps best to paint that the years of tampering with under-thinking state policy towards textbooks, the satisfaction to say so to the populist pre-election criteria, not to bring us into a situation of almost panic reactions, that the problem becomes what the problem is not or should not be as an example of this change, and that the law and state policy mostly comes down to commercial and market regulation. If you look, colleagues and colleagues, the Law on textbooks you will see that the quality of textbooks in the current law has not a single letter, that all what we are from the SDP, but also many other MPs here in the Croatian Assembly have talked about the quality of textbooks remained here somewhere buried in archives, and that all of our discussions on textbooks of new quality remained in some way suppressed between interests and mostly private pockets. And here again, on behalf of the SDP, I would like to say that quality textbooks are obtained by quality curricula primarily, and then by transparent review as education of teachers and teachers, not by prescribing administrative procedures, financial constraints, etc. Mr. Secretary of State, this particular practice of administrative restrictions in this section and in general in education policy has led us to today's situation, and after all these years, it's a little bit amazing for me that all the proposals from the ministry that we have, which so spiritually continue to insist on normisation, and indeed a hypernormized system, and at the same time, it's not just normalized that we really need to standardise, which is the objectives, outcomes and competences in the education system. We no longer have any illusions in the SDP that as long as these teams are in the ministry, there will be any qualitative changes, at the end of the election there is no time for them anymore, but we would like at least to minimise this situation then that when we solve problems and we have to vote the laws that we really shouldn't have on the agenda at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72596	Thank you. It's the National Minorities Club, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72597	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Really very short on this short bill or short changes. Certainly, the National Minorities Club supports and aligns the law with the general administrative procedure, which was ultimately an obligation, but we would like to look briefly at the textbooks and the additional teaching tools included in the catalogue of mandatory textbooks and supplementary teaching in 2010 normally for the school year 2010/2011. It is clear that by adopting a new teaching standard, it will also impose a new alignment of all textbooks with standards. At the same time, we have the Law on textbooks that predicts the use of textbooks for many years, and this amendment certainly extends the use of textbooks in the 2010/2011 catalogue. by 2013 and 2014 respectively of the school year. However, the question arises that with new textbooks that are not in the catalog, children do not have a textbook for the subject, whether these textbooks will wait in 2013 and 2014 in shelves and collect dust. Namely, let me explain. Minority textbooks are either copyright or translations or are from the countries of origin, unfortunately for them there is no great interest and just as in the Italian minority and in the Czech minority and some other minorities, it happened that not all the items were covered because they had not arrived to be translated, there was no printing and could not often be financed. I ask the Honorable Secretary to try to amend the possibility that such textbooks, which are printed in this year and in the following year, enter the course, whether by supplementing the catalogue or by some other act, that the textbooks that are this year are actually printed, because I say there is a continuity of translation and preparation of textbooks, and I say there are no textbooks for all subjects, in order to give the textbooks primarily intended for minorities, but also groups with special needs, and maybe there is also a course that is not covered with textbooks, which the textbook for a particular reason was not printed, will be printed this year or next year, that the possibility of such textbooks be used. Here is the request, i.e. by requesting that such segment be complemented by thanks and we will support these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72598	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72599	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to stress that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, with a final draft of the law. Why? So the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, "National paper" No. 27 since 2010, has been prescribed a process of listing, approval of elections, withdrawal from the use of textbooks and additional teaching tools, approval, the use of auxiliaries for primary and secondary school students, and the financing of the purchase of students and additional education funds by means of a state budget. The Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools also stipulates that the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act are applicable in all procedures prescribed by law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion of 6 October 2010 is also responsible for making proposals for amending and supplementing laws from administrative areas which are in their jurisdiction in order to comply with the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure of the National No. 47th of 2009 within 6 months of the conclusion. It is therefore necessary to amend the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools so that in the procedures for the inclusion of authorisation and election and withdrawal from the administration of textbooks and supplementary curricula, the authorisation of the use of teaching aids for pupils in primary and secondary schools, and the financing of the purchase of textbooks and supplementary curricula by means of the State budget shall apply the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools "National paper" No. 27 of 2010 in Article 5, as already stated here in paragraph 2: "cruise" is replaced by "decision" and in Article 35 of paragraph 17, it is also read as follows: "The textbooks and the corresponding supplementary teaching tools contained in the catalogue of compulsory textbooks and the corresponding supplementary curricula for 2010 and the 11th school year can generally be available in retail until the beginning of the school year 2013 and 2014. "years." We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club also share an opinion with our colleague Chuhnil, who here on behalf of the club has spoken to the audience, we also suggest that the Proposer consider the provision so that some textbooks of minority peoples may be in use before they are in the catalog before the school year 2013 and 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72600	And we have one application if there's not another one. Here comes another club. On behalf of the Goran Beus Richembergh Club, on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU. Here you go. It all says here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72601	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We're joining the HNS and HSU club to support the bill simply because we have no other options, we have no other choice. We got ourselves into a situation, or you got us into a situation where we couldn't really choose. On the one hand, we warned that the deadlines on which the ministry insists not only on textbooks, but also in case we want to expand the story then and the standards of pre-school and school institutions, that it is in fact unreal deadlines where the state is always inclined to tighten the deadlines that apply and which should be applied by someone else regardless of whether it is a private sector or units of local, regional self-government and when it is in turn, when it is due to its obligations, then these deadlines are either decommissioned or delayed indefinitely instead of accessing the problem realistically, to concentrate forces and to try to solve the problem on time. The story of creating supplies, large supplies of school textbooks we talked about here and when the original law was passed, so it was not really wanted to be heard because it was not believed to the publishers that we understood each other. That's the first and the most basic thing. The publishers warned, but they were not believed, or easily passed over that information because it was also about private interests and why the state would now take care of school textbook publishers. What we want to warn you about is that it hasn't changed much. We still have in determining and using textbooks in the primary and secondary school situation to use textbooks that are overcrowded with material that will in principle mean nothing to students. We now see that the initiatives are being launched to withdraw from the use, i.e. from the practice of using, those textbooks and teaching materials that are single, or textbooks and teaching aids, in which data are being entered, and then because of the information, answers, or drawings or charts entered, the whole book collapses in the next generation. We hope that this initiative will avoid it in the future, that it will be implemented as soon as possible. Because when it comes to textbooks, the question is economics, but also the question of relationships with students, according to our children who remember not so long ago, in the case of a child who was a paradigm and his grandmother managed to attract the attention of the Minister of Science and Education who then promised that the textbooks would be easier and that they would be smaller. But that didn't happen until today. We also support this proposal to consider some exceptions when it comes specifically to textbooks in the languages of some national minorities. In this respect, the HNS and HSU club warns about the shortcomings of this practice by the Ministry of Science and Education, but noting that we have no choice or choice. We announce that we will support the proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72602	And now it's time for the individual debate of the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here we are in front of this amendment and the addition of the law, although it was passed, so in 2010, a new law. Here we heard today it's about coordination. On the one hand, however, we have a law according to which schools can use the same titles for 4 years in order for children to inherit, of course, to spend less money. On the other hand, we have a large number of books, working materials, which means children write in, and that is why they cannot be used, but of course they have to be thrown away. So a large number of books in particular language items are conceived as work textbooks. I am also concerned as a health care professional with the proposal to abolish work textbooks and reduce the atlas in application if it is adopted only after the school year, i.e. 2013/14. This means that children will have another time, a great time especially for that age of growth and development, and children will continue to draw that great burden on their backs. I was recently with a physiotherapist, so we talked a little bit about pathology that occurs especially in childhood, and I received data that the limit of the problem of the locomotor system has been reduced to an ever younger population. One of the reasons is certainly the one I'm talking about. Therefore, the reason for this is that the current law prescribes that the existing textbooks are worth 4 years and that provision applies to all titles. I would, for example, take some more textbooks from elementary school to fourth grade, and also some examples for classes 5 to 8. For example, the 1st grade of elementary school Croatian language of three compulsory textbooks are two working books. The mathematics of 3 compulsory textbooks are all three working, nature and society of 2 is one working. The English language of 2 is one working language, which means that parents can use from the last generation in this case only three textbooks, one from Croatia, one from Nature and one from the English language. This is the situation for textbooks from 1st to 4th grade, so we see what our parents' savings are. A similar situation is for the class in question. For example, I will take for example technical education where the book costs 25 kuna, and the box with the equipment to work 40 kuna and must mean buying a new one every year. And I'd like to take advantage of the state secretary's opportunity here, so I'd like to ask you a question with this by now. If all teachers participate in selecting textbooks what is with teachers authors. Can they choose their own book or whether they are at that time in conflict of interest. And one more thing since this year's school year is citizen's education. Am I right about that, is it introduced? And now it should be implemented through existing subjects, however, how the content will be included in existing textbooks, i.e. what and how the content will be included in existing textbooks that should be used further under this Law. So you either won't introduce civil education or that legal provision is not respected. Also expected and textbook standards, does this mean that we will again bring changes and additions when we align textbooks with textbook standards. So we are in a very responsible area, an area of education and education. I'd like to repeat the same question our colleague asked, who determines the quality of the textbooks? So I think it's not working in order, let's also remember standards, pedagogical standards, let's remember euphorically one-way classes in elementary schools, these are all beautiful things and pedagogical standards and one-way classes, but it's inconclusive. Therefore, where the money comes from, it's being put back on the burden of local self-government, we don't have the money to work schools. So there's no curicula, I think we're doing the opposite direction. I hope you'll answer these questions for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72604	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said a lot of true things but she doesn't know anything or she missed something. One-way work and the goal of primary schools to experience the status of one-way work is the project to go, proof is only Požeško-Slavon County where in the last three years in three cities or municipalities one-way work has been brought to life in three primary schools. The same or similar is happening in other Slavonian counties that I know of and do not then claim that this programme did not come to life when it is currently under way and is being successfully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72606	Thank you. Would the proposaler's representative like to say a few more final words? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72607	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, allow Mrs. Representatives and MPs to thank you for your participation in the debate and for the suggestions you have made that will certainly be of use to the future when these topics or school topics are reopened. Well, first of all, I'd like to say to the esteemed representative, Lugaric. When you talk about the General Administrative Procedure Act, of course it took effect when it entered into force, it was passed when it was passed and this is our failure and there is no reason to cross over, but I will remind you and tell you that it is also your failure. For this same reason as we have suggested, if we have already missed you could then suggest either in the debate or in the form of amendments and be sure to accept this, I am not saying this by heart because a lot of amendments from you by name and last name have been accepted in a number of legislative proposals, and secondly on your incentive and from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So that's where our shared responsibility is, both yours and ours. Furthermore, when we talk about this problem, I will remind you that you were a witness to that time when we passed the Law in the Croatian Parliament in 2001, and the mandate lasted until 2003, and then we changed this freshly passed law once, so we passed the teaching standard, so we changed the textbook standard once. So I dare say in these ten years we're trying as best as possible to sort out this textbook problem. And therefore there have been frequent amendments to the law, but in one good intention to fix this problem as best as possible, because in many cases we have accepted amendments that have improved the laws. So when I talk about that time, then I can't say that it's not the last 10 years, I dare say that we're a number of solutions that we've made, that they're good solutions. You know in the beginning that we had a situation that textbooks could have been written by consultants from the agencies, that they could have written by a number of others that we have now indicated that they are in conflict of interest and they are. They are. So it's not all black, but on the contrary, we should all together here in this High House say that so far we've done quite well on the issue of textbooks, but not completely. And of course there will always be opportunities for further improvements and we, of course, are open to it. When it comes to minorities, respected MPs Chuhnil, I thank you for it, you were not selfish, so you said only a minority, but you also said students with special needs and disabled textbooks. I promise you that with our rule of law I will see if there is a possibility within the existing articles that we have in the law, whether it is possible to supplement the catalog of textbooks, given that it really happens that some minority community prepares the textbook, whether it is copyrighted or translated, etc., and it would be a shame that it does not enter the procedure. If there is no such possibility we will see what we can do, but in any case, of course we want to solve it, let me see, and I will inform you, you two, on what path we should go to solve it. My fellow MP Bonačić, I say this first because I came from school benches to this job, you talk about working textbooks, so it would be good, I don't have such powers, but I believe that no one will prevent you from showing up at the Educational, Science and Culture Committee that will discuss it, and I know that they have such solutions that are on the trail of what you were talking about, so it might be convenient for you to come as a guest to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in cooperation with the president and vice president of the board and to make your proposals, because of course that document will be passed after such consent, and I think you will be pleased. When you talk about civic education, I must also inform you that there will also be one thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which will discuss the curricula, our national curricula, and this is also an opportunity for you to take part in this and to make your contribution. And when it comes to the pedagogical standard you're talking about, you know that we didn't have that document until recently, and the moment we brought that document, we were aware that, of course, what was written down, was always trying to go with some higher standards, that we were aware that there was no money in the state budget, that at the same time there could be pedagogical standards, but that it could be, it would be necessary to have such a document that it could be given some kind of projection until when we wanted to do so. There's no sin to move for a few years, unless it can be realized in the years it's scheduled, but I'll remind you that the state pedagogue standard, as last year set 2022, that we will eventually reach it. It's possible we won't, but there's always an open possibility that certain deadlines will move if we can't make it. In any case, it's better to have some kind of plan than to actually have no plan. Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President, I hope I've covered everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72608	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72609	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 740. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72610	We move to - - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public-private Partnership, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 780 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. I see that the proposer's representative wishes to further explain the proposal, which is the esteemed Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and representatives, ladies and gentlemen. The Law amending the Law on Public-private Partnership is adopted for the purpose of harmonising certain provisions of the applicable Law on Public-private Partnership with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 6 October 2010. In view of the fact that the General Administrative Procedure Act is applicable in all administrative matters and there is no longer the possibility of subsidisation, its provisions, this proposal shall comply with the basic provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This proposal deletes the provisions governing the procedure in the same way as the General Administrative Procedure Act, and there is no need to prescribe a time limit already prescribed. The deadline for adopting a decision on the approval of projects under the public-private partnership model shall be harmonised in such a way as to reduce the time limit from 90 to 60 days, which is in accordance with the law and its provisions on general administrative procedure, which prescribes that certain issues of administrative procedure can be regulated differently if this is necessary for action in certain administrative areas. Given the complexity of public-private partnership projects, it is not possible to shorten the deadline of less than 60 days. The term of the finality of administrative acts so far is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. An amendment is also proposed to which the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Public-private Partnership Agency, the vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is the power to do so. The adoption of the Law amending the Law on PPP, the provision of the Law on PPP, will be fully in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72612	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. Then I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So, regardless of what these changes are, to put it technically, I think that when we talk about a public-private partnership that this law deserves a little broader debate for the simple reason that it is a model for investment which in Croatia is not quite the most in recent years, so we can even say it used enough. Therefore, this law came into force at the end of 2008, which laid the basis for a transparent and coherent legislative but institutional framework for a public-private partnership in the Republic of Croatia. This placed the Republic of Croatia among an increasing number of countries, both at European and global level, which have opted for a more intensive application of this model of financing and realisation of public investment and public service provision. The adoption of the Law on Public Private Partnership and the new Law on concessions entered into force in January 2010 with the Public Procurement Act also met the key criteria for closing negotiations in the EU's accession negotiations in Chapter 5. ... , and thus this important part of the accession process of the Republic of Croatia ended on 30 June 2010. [[The speaker does not understand:]] It is therefore too important to point out that the adoption of those rules was a condition for and obtaining the consent of the European Commission, which guaranteed the full implementation of the EU acquis and the application of best international practice. Public-private partnerships are most often described as a model of long-term public and private sector cooperation in order to finance construction or reconstruction of public infrastructure management and maintenance and public service provision. In principle, it is a common name for a number of complex, agreed or institutional association models, comparative advantages of the public and private sector in order to achieve the best value for taxpayers' money, the highest service standards for end-users and the long-term sustainability and cost-effectiveness of such projects. It is important to note that this is not about any novelty or the invention of a newer age. This is a form of financing public projects as a comparative but alternative system for classical public procurement. It has been known for decades at world and European level. For a long time, it was primarily observed through its most common form, which is a concession which for the purpose of realising public works or providing services so-called. "Concession Agreement" as the second most common submodel of the last 30 years began to develop, so-called "Concession Agreement". "Operation Rental Model" known as the private financial initiative, and according to the terminology developed in Great Britain. And we have to say that the PPP project is certainly the most developed and brought it back to life in the UK. Therefore, the PPP project has been implemented in the Republic of Croatia since its independence. The implementation of road and municipal infrastructure can be cited by the basis of a concession model in the last few years of building individual halls for the purposes of the World Handball Championship and facilities in the field of education and administration at local and regional level, and through the model of operational rental of private financial initiative. The establishment of a single legislative, institutional framework through the Law on Public-private Partnership and through the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Procurement of Preparation and Proposal of Projects has further intensified as it guarantees even greater, but also better application of the PPP in the Republic of Croatia according to best international standards. This will make the Republic of Croatia more strongly involved in the public-private partnership of the project, which, despite the impact of the global economic crisis, is perhaps the only model of investment that has seen growth in the past three years, all other investment models have recorded the decline and research of one of the most influential organisations of the European Public-private Partnership Centre, which in 2010 realised 112 public-private partnership projects totalling 18.3 billion euros in the European market, and the average value of the contract was 163 million euros. The most important market remains Great Britain, with France, Germany and Spain as well. And that's why the HDZ Club will support the amendments to this law. This is why we may all consider that at times when we have practically reached one credit dead person in the Republic of Croatia to open up space to all those who have money, who want to invest that together with the state and units of local self-government, through or in the form of a public-private partnership, certain projects that are of general state interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72614	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one reported. Dear Representative Davor Huška, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is clear that we are also harmonising this law with the General Administrative Procedure Act, but here are a few words about the Public-private Partnership Act, which was adopted in 2008, which regulates the preparation, proposal, approval and implementation of public-private partnership projects. Furthermore, the rights and obligations of public and private partners in the implementation of approved public-private partnerships projects and the establishment and task of the Public-private Partnership Agency as the central body responsible for the implementation of the PPP shall be governed. The proposed amendments to this law would result in the harmonisation of specific procedural provisions with the applicable General Administrative Procedure Act and the abolition of existing provisions of administrative and legal nature which have become excessive by the adoption of a new General Administrative Procedure Act or are contrary to its purpose and fundamental provisions. Other provisions of the Public-private Partnership Act which are not covered by the proposal for these amendments shall neither be amended. Furthermore, on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as of 6 October 2010, all central authorities of the State administration are obliged to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing the Law of Administrative Areas in the framework of the established section in order to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and this is also the basis for amending and harmonising the Law on Public Private Partnership. Finally, the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public-private Partnership covered the fulfilment of the measures set out by the European Commission in the provisional report in Chapter 23. – Justice and fundamental rights, measure 6. – Prevention of corruption in which it is indicated that the Republic of Croatia must adopt all laws implementing compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Of course, that vis-a-vis everything said I will accept the adoption of this law, but I will briefly refer to what my colleague Shucker said on behalf of the club. This is a really good investment model and it should be said that he lived in Croatia at one point but after megalomanic projects, a public-private partnership in the Varazdin County led by the former Varazdin Mayor and the Minister of Construction, a whole series of units of local self-government as one important actor on the part of public investors or private partners experienced a total fiasco today, and the units of local self-government are convulsing in debt because they were simply forced to enter public-private partnerships programmes by the county and that is how much I know on the ground, and I often with the mayors and mayors simply caused one worry among other units of local self-government, and we are slightly all looking at this model when we saw what happened in the Varaz County under the stick of mayors who are no longer mayors. Where a whole series of mega-projects have been created but local self-government units have indeed been brought into an uninvited position to pay public private partnership commitments. It might be good for you to re-exert certain education through the ministry, or better said informing local self-government units as a significant partner in public private partnership models, to highlight the benefits of this investment model, to exploit the possibility that some people have the means and are willing to invest and invest in this particular model of public private partnership and thus to provide funds for a large number of capital projects that we in cities and municipalities have prepared and where we have building permits but unfortunately do not have enough resources to invest. Here is a proposal and, of course, we all need to learn from this Varazdin case together, and that when this model comes back to life in the Republic of Croatia again, such things are no longer happening, or that certain controls from the level of the Ministry are higher in such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72616	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, Huška, I must replicate the qualification that the compromise of the public private partnership took place in Varazdin. He's not a colleague. The Government of the Republic of Croatia for including the Public Private Partnership and Privatisation Treaty of Sunny Hvar, when there was neither the law nor the privatisation law, has placed a very ugly seal on the Institute. This is for the sake of the public and for future investors, and we must acknowledge this by and bringing Sunčani Hvar to a situation that is suitable for the legislation of the Republic of Croatia on public private partnership or on privatisation in the Republic of Croatia. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72618	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72619	I think fellow Leko should talk more about the time of privatisation because you yourself said that the Law on Public Private Partnership at that point did not exist. I tell you what the mayors and the captains know, what we fear. We are afraid that we will not experience what the mayors and mayors of the Varazdin County experienced when they were forced to enter certain models of the public private partnership without quality information, without quality financial security and today they are looming in big problems. It's a bad picture of a public private partnership and we know what time it happened and we know who caused it and we also know that we need to change it because it's a good investment model especially in these times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72620	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't want to mention this on behalf of the club for the simple reason that the debate on behalf of the club might have gone to other waters. However, I felt the need to say some other things, however great a public private partnership is a great model that units of local self-government, which do not have enough money, solve their basic problems, and even the state, in certain investments, so many specific examples of the Varazdin County, indicate when these investments are megalomanic, when not looking at the fiscal potential of both the county and the local self-government units that can long-termly bring these local self-government units into one terrible problem. And what we were told, therefore, was advised by those who have been applying the public private partnership for decades, that it is a very important model of public private partnership, it is very important to define the relationship between the public and the private partner, first of all, with regard to maintenance and some other costs, it is very important to define the level of these costs in the early years when these costs are low, and it is also very important to define what will happen to the facility at the time of the termination of the public private partnership. But I'm saying there's budgetary surveillance, and many local self-government units in Varazdin County are probably in a lot of trouble for two more decades because they're in charge as they're in charge, and since my colleague Leko mentioned Sunny Hvar, I wouldn't mention changing the tender documentation and other things I think we both have stains on Sunny Hvar, so I think it's better if we don't do that to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72622	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72623	Thank you. It's true, my colleague, it's not convenient on behalf of the club to talk about such cases, but it should also be mentioned that it's bad enough not to repeat itself again. A great model of public private partnership has been used unfortunately for mega-projects for pre-election campaigns apparently there have been other human and petty interests in implementing this programme but it is an opportunity to correct the other 500 and some local self-government units to come up with quality information about public private partnership and to use this model in the best possible way, and to learn from the mistakes of the Varazdin Mayor, the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72624	I thank and conclude the debate, and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72625	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public-private Partnership is an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 780. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on PPP. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 94 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72626	We move to point 27. and that is - Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of an additional protocol to the Treaty on the modification and completion and accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 783. The proposal for an act, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, was received by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would like to introduce you today to the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol of the Treaty on the Amendment and Completion and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty CEFTA 2006. On the CEFTA 2006 contract, the degree of liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products between the parties to the contract was not uniform and the parties to the CEFTA 2006 contract began negotiations on further liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products. Following the end of the negotiations, the interested CEFTA parties have prescribed an additional protocol to the CEFTA 2006 contract, which agreed to further liberalise trade in agricultural and food products or trade conditions, which will be applied bilaterally, as will be the basis of the CEFTA 2006 contract. The additional protocol was signed by Albania, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova and Serbia. The concessions contained in the additional protocol for the Republic of Croatia are: all remaining customs and quotas are removed with Albania and Moldova. Croatia lifts all customs and quotas for imports and Montenegro, while Montenegro retains customs duties and quotas for imports from Croatia for a small number of specially sensitive products for which customs duties will be reduced or abolished by 2012 as poultry meat, dairy products, meat processing, mineral water, beer, cigarettes of some kind of fresh fruit and vegetables. With Serbia, after the concession, they increased significantly compared to the existing degree of trade liberalisation while existing concessions were held with Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the market for CEFTA countries is extremely important for Croatian businessmen. In the structure of the Croatian trade in goods, CEFTA was right behind the EU and participated with 10.31% in the total trade in the Republic of Croatia in 2010. Furthermore, the total trade between the Republic of Croatia and CEFTA in 2010 was 2.5 billion euros and was 4% higher than in 2009, exports increased by 4% and 1.7 billion euros, and imports by 5.4% or 0.81 billion euros compared to 2009. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol of the Treaty on the Amendment and Completion and Accession of the Central European Treaty on Free Trade under the Emergency Procedure in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible and thereby facilitate the business of Croatian businessmen on the market of the countries of the Law to confirm the additional protocol of the Treaty on the Amendment and Completion and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Agreement of the CEFTA. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72628	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. In any event, it should be recalled that the Act confirming the additional protocol of the Treaty on Change and Completion of the Central European, the Free Trade Agreement of CEFTA was established with a view to the gradual introduction of free trade, functioning as a transitional trade block, abolishing state monopolies, reducing or abolishing customs and customs restrictions and also harmonising legal regulations in promoting competition. On 21 December 1992, the Treaty establishing the Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol of the Agreement on the Amendment and Completion of the Central European Agreement, signed first by Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia in Krakow, Poland. Slovenia joined in January '96, Romania in July '97, Bulgaria in January '99, Croatia December 6th 2002 and Macedonia 2006. But the EU's accession also left the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, later Romania and Bulgaria. For a time, it was indeed a large area of great trade opportunities from cca 90 million people. However, as the countries entered the EU, the scope was reduced and in fact all members of the original Law confirming the additional protocol of the Treaty on Amendment and Completion and Accession to Central European, the CEFTA Free Trade Treaty of '92. except Croatia are now EU members. The countries signatories of the new CEFTA 2006 contract Croatia, Macedonia, Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Moldova, Serbia and Kosovo have ceased to be CEFTA members by joining the EU so that it should be clearly kept in mind what countries they are doing for Croatia. The idea of entering into a new and more modern CEFTA in 2006 came from the need to streamline the implementation of a network of bilateral free trade contracts concluded over the years by the Southeast European countries. The main objectives of replacing the network of bilateral free trade agreements with a single multilateral agreement lie in the need to increase the volume of international trade, also to increase direct investment in South East Europe and also to facilitate business and trade liberalisation. All of this should contribute to the improvement and strengthening of overall trade and economic relations in the region. CEFTA 2006 agreement, unlike that basic contract in '92. it is fully in line with the provisions of the World Trade Organisation, wishing to help non-member countries of that organisation adapt their trading systems to global trade rules as soon as possible. In addition to the usual provisions on free trade, the text also covers the topic of strengthening cooperation in the field of trade in services, encouraging and protecting investment and also modern provisions on the protection of competition and intellectual property rights. The important news of the 2006 CEFTA is also a detailed process of dispute resolution, including arbitration, with a view to ensuring better implementation and implementation of the contract. There is certainly no big news for the Republic of Croatia in this contract, above all because we are both on the verge and the conclusion of negotiations with the EU. The result of a consultation of the CEFTA Treaty's Joint Committee was held in Belgrade on 12 November 2010 to liberalise relations with Albania, so all remaining tariffs and quotas in the exchange of agricultural products, Montenegro, Kosovo, Moldova, Serbia and Macedonia, are mutually abolished. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this law because it confirms the Additional Protocol to the Treaty on the Amendment and Completion of the Accession Treaty to the Central European Free Trade Treaty, which prescribes the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72630	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72631	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU Club will support this Additional Protocol to the CEFTA Accession Treaty. According to us, this protocol is a logical continuation of further liberalisation of relations in the exchange of agricultural and food products. The Republic of Croatia, here I would like to point out, is truly leading one quality and leading policy. Croatia was a country that, after the founders of CEFTA entered the European Union, suggested that CEFTA not be shut down but that the countries of Southeast Europe enter as a training polygon for what awaits them when they become members of the European Union tomorrow and I think it is good that Croatia now proposes this Additional Protocol. We see that a whole series of meetings have been held in connection with this proposal, first in Brussels, then in Podgorica and finally in Belgrade, the text of the protocol itself has been established. Croatia signs the protocol in February of this year and the results of the protocol are as follows. It should be said, perhaps a little more detail than we have just heard, that there are three groups of countries, there are countries like Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and Kosovo that fully abolish customs and quotas with Croatia, there are then Moldova, Montenegro and Serbia that continue to liberalise relations with Croatia and there is Macedonia that remains in the status that it has so far, but this status has been essentially very favourable for both us and for them because they have indeed been very, very liberal. What I may have to say, and what we haven't heard from the Secretary of State, is a message that should go to our producers, our merchants. On the one hand, this protocol will be one additional pressure on some of our producers because competition will be clearly higher because of prices lower in some of our neighbouring countries. On the other hand, it's a big new opportunity for our producers. It is necessary to clearly recognise our advantages, to potentiate the production of precisely these and such products which will now be able to find new customers in these markets with which we establish more liberal relations. And I think that this way we should go from the assembly to the message that better quality should be coordinated, which seems to us in our club that we don't make enough coordination between politics, between manufacturers and traders. It should be much more quality, much faster, clear to the well-being of our companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72632	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a respected representative of the Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72633	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Treaty amending and supplementing and joining the Central European Free Trade Treaty was signed on 19 December 2006, and it entered into force in the Republic of Croatia on 22 August 2007. On 11 July 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Additional Protocol to the Treaty on Change and Completion and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, under which it was agreed that the parties would consider, within the Joint Committee, the possibility of granting further privileges and, at the latest, by 1 May 2009. The degree of liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products contained in the CEFTA 2006 Treaty is not uniform between certain parties. For example, the Republic of Croatia has fully liberalised trade with Bosnia and Herzegovina, it also has a relatively high degree of liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products with the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and the Republic of Kosovo, but it also has a limited degree of liberalisation with the Republic of Albania, Moldova and the Republic of Serbia. Meanwhile, several rounds of consultation have been held that the exchange with the Republic of Albania, so any remaining customs and quotas in the exchange of agricultural, food and fishery products will be abolished in this mutual relationship. With Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia abolishes all remaining customs duties and quotas for imports of products originating in Montenegro, while Montenegro abolishes customs duties and quotas for imports of products from the Republic of Croatia except for a small number of particularly sensitive products for which customs duties will gradually be reduced by 2012 such as meat, dairy products, certain types of fresh fruit and vegetables, etc. With the Republic of Kosovo, it abolishes all remaining customs duties on imports of products originating in the Republic of Croatia. With the Republic of Macedonia, there is, in fact, already a relatively high degree of liberalisation, and then there is no change in concessions. Compared to the Republic of Moldova, all remaining customs duties are both abolished and there is a significant increase in existing concessions with the Republic of Serbia compared to the existing regime for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products. It is particularly important to stress that it is January 27, 2011. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached a conclusion which therefore accepts a report on these leading negotiations for the conclusion of the Additional Protocol, and on 11 February 2011, the Additional Protocol to the Treaty amending and supplementing and joining the Central European Free Trade Treaty, which, at the end of this law, is signed by the law currently under discussion, and confirms. This additional protocol contains provisions that prescribe the results of the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products, and final provisions that prescribe ratification and entry into force, but also the possibility of provisional application of the additional protocol. Of course I will support the adoption of this law confirming the additional protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72634	Thank you very much, colleague. It's my friend Zdenko Franjić's turn. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72635	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, we need to uphold this law. It is known that the European Union is also resting on the basis of free-cutting of goods, people, capital and services, i.e. free-trade. And especially for more developed economies it is very important to have a bigger market, place your products and thus increase your well-being and gross social product. However, at a time when these non-tariff or tariff barriers to trade are abolished, caution should be paid and special attention to further development and improvement of quality infrastructure as a prerequisite for free trade. In addition, negotiating Chapter 1 for Croatia's accession to full membership of the European Union concerns the quality infrastructure. Because when we do not have customs duties, customs officers as a dam importing bad goods on the defender of national interests and product quality stands precisely this invisible front of quality infrastructure, i.e. accreditation, normisation, measurement, intellectual property. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know which times I warn of the very big problems that occur especially in the accreditation segment. The government, the government, encourages accreditation of any appropriate or tested laboratories to demonstrate the competence of staff to carry out certain methods of testing and calibration. In addition, functional quality infrastructure, in particular accreditation, is explicit and mentioned in Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement as a prerequisite that the Republic of Croatia can join the full membership of the European Union at all. Croatian laboratories, testing, moderate, certification houses, inspection bodies recognized the market value of accreditation and today we have in the Republic of Croatia about 250 of these accredited conformity assessment bodies. However, most of the Croatian experts, experts, professors, engineers, and such as external associates, Associates of the Accreditation Agency are involved in accreditation. Because it would be paradoxical if the Accreditation Agency had so many employees. She has to ask for a service from outside experts. However, it happens that in any new accreditation, although it is a paid job by one who wants to be accredited because of the State Treasury system, money goes to the Treasury and cannot be used to pay contracts to people who do their job fairly, i.e. experts and assessor experts. So we come up with a paradoxical situation that every new accreditation, every new job that is essentially the service of the Croatian economy is approaching Croatia's accreditation agency with its financial letter. And the situation is such that already in the first half of the year, all the funds foreseen by the budget will be exhausted and no longer be able to pay for accreditation and supervision and can happen that simply the Agency closes its doors. In doing so, it is paradoxical that even the Agency is working on income grounds, because as I said, there are about 250 accredited bodies that have to go into supervision, etc. Therefore, the Agency is also covering itself, so it does not take from the budget but also puts it into the budget. But the more it attracts this kind of model, the more it creates its own losses and problems. I am pleased to say that the Croatian accreditation agency was one of the few agencies in Southeast Europe that went frontal in the accreditation of all its accreditation schemes and even though the Republic of Croatia entered the entire project much later than other Central European countries today made up for it. For example, for us neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, their Accreditation Agency does not have all the schemes such as the Croatian Accreditation Agency and they are now seeking assistance from the HAA. In the course of accreditation of medical and biomedical laboratories in some hospitals in Slovenia. However, the HAA gave good thought before entering the cooperation process because, as I said, every new job brings problems and losses. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, that's something to think about. I know that the State Treasury system has brought numerous savings and rationalization of business, but there are still some exceptions that need to be perceived and found solutions that will be satisfactory. Otherwise, even if we spread here a free trade zone, we'll lose after these tariff barriers to free trade fall, we'll lose that dam that protects us from bad goods and services. And I would also like to remind myself that in many cases, the government itself is conditional on the accreditation of individual laboratories, in order to prove their competence to conduct certain tests, e.g. in the environmental protection segment, e.g. ionising radiation, noise, air protection, food protection, for example, has now been prescribed for the obligation of accreditation and veterinary cells, in order to improve the control of meat, etc., agricultural products but each job is a pain and a problem how to finance it, even if the funds are available to those seeking accreditation. So with cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy simply has to account for it in the next month or two, because it threatens to collapse the entire system which can reflect even on God’s relativation and opening of the negotiating chapter 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72636	Thank you very much, dear colleague Franic. We've exhausted all individual applications for discussion. On behalf of the Proposer? There's no need. There isn't. That's final. Then I'm closing this agenda. And we'll vote like other points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72637	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol to the Treaty on Change and Completion of Access to the Central European Free Trade Treaty was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 783. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of an additional protocol to the Treaty amending and supplementing the accession to the Central European Free Trade Treaty. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 96 votes in favour, one abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72638	We move on to point 21, that is - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 777 Proposer Government. You received the proposal by mail. When we set up the agenda, we accepted the urgency of the procedure. The emergency process combines the first and second readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. We received a report from the board meeting on the benches. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Zoran Komar. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, which is dominantly related to the harmonisation of the provisions of the applicable law with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and thus the Republic of Croatia meets another of the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. This bill marks improvements, in particular in the procedural part of the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, faster resolution of the requirements, strengthening the role of the party, amending and supplementing the procedural but not the substantive provisions of the existing law. It is an advantage to stress that the proposed amendments shorten the deadlines for the art of the case on medical committees, the deadlines foreseen for the revision of the proceedings, the possibility of direct collection of evidence in the review process, and the increased role of the party in the way that Croatian defenders will be able to ask direct questions on the record during medical skills in the future and receive an answer immediately. In addition to the amendments and additions relating to the harmonisation of the existing law with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the amendments proposed in this legal text include the provision of the procedure for the recognition of the right to supply, the adoption of a specific regulation which will be detailed in this area of the law, the harmonisation of certain legal provisions with the Law on the Management of State Property, the Law on State Employees, the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and two other short amendments, is one of the precision of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior as authorised bodies of the State Administration to keep official records and issue certificates on the status of defenders. The second is a more precise determination, the determination of the market price in the difference between the area of the apartment assigned to the victims, so the Croatian wartime wartime disabled from the Homeland War and the members of the families of the deceased, in the event that the area of the apartment crosses the laid down criteria. The proposed law by the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee has submitted one amendment to Article 3, which the applicant keeps justified and acceptable, the amendment refers to a nomotechnical correction where the word indentation referred to in Article 3 is replaced by the word subparagraph. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72640	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, Mr. Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 28th session held on 4 May 2011 discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 8 April 2011, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee does not object to an urgent procedure in the adoption of this law. The intensity of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families according to the proposing representatives has been in line with the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with the Law on General Administrative Procedure which entered into force on 1 January 2010, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed all competent authorities to harmonising all regulations with the General Administrative Procedure Act within 6 months. The proposed amendments and additions shall not result in an increase or reduction of existing rights or alter the conditions under which defenders and members of their families exercise their rights. The proposed law proposes to cut deadlines in the review process from 3 to 2 months. The possibility of carrying out evidence on its own for the second-degree body in the audit process is proposed. A mandatory medical examination shall be introduced, parties to the appeal procedure shall propose the principle of oral debate when reviewing the party in the First Instance Medical Commission and shall be more precise to determine the recognition of the right to pay the costs of the administrative procedure and the exemption from payment of administrative fees. In the discussion, the committee members supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law and stressed that they would contribute to a more effective and faster resolution of the demands of Croatian defenders and members of their families in the exercise of their rights. A slowdown in the housing of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is mentioned with a lower percentage of damage to organisms that are conditioned, limited and insufficient means provided for that purpose in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. After the discussion, the committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72642	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic. And since he's the first to be reported on behalf of the HDZ Club, I give him my word on behalf of the club. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So the HDZ Club also supports this bill of law and the adoption of this law on the basis of which Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families have acquired rights remain unchanged. The proposed amendments and additions to this law that are directly related to compliance with the Law in the administrative procedure relate to the harmonisation of provisions with other laws and to improving the practical application of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and do not result in an increase or reduction of existing rights but only improves the effectiveness and speed of work and compliance as I have said with the Law on Administrative Procedure. This law provides for a further revision of positive solutions. The audit is a legal institute that has been known in the fields of recognition of the rights of participants in wars in these areas for more than 60 years. The audit means controlling the legality of positive solutions which recognise monetary rights and is a function of budget protection. This law is almost entirely in line with the principles of the Administrative Procedure Act and the proposed revision under this law is not contrary to the purpose of the Administrative Procedure Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The ZUP provides that certain issues of administrative resolution can be regulated differently if this is necessary in certain administrative areas and is not contrary to the basic provisions and the purpose of the Administrative Procedure Act. Since the State budget also provides large funds for the payment of permanent rights, the control of these spendings is certainly one of the audit tasks since we can see that in the past because... in 2009 only in the process of audit, i.e. audit and appeal, about 4 300 first-degree solutions on recognition of the status and rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families have been annulled. If there was no revision delaying the implementation of first-degree solutions, it would have become final executive, there would have been damage to the state budget. This law provides for shorter deadlines for the completion of the audit procedure, i.e. the same deadlines as in the appeal procedure, which also provides for the possibility of the direct collection of evidence in the audit procedure. The review procedure has now been fully monitored in accordance with the appeal procedure so that the principles of the appeal procedure are respected. It is noteworthy that this proposal amends and complements the Law on the Rights of Croatian Advocates certainly performs and brings positive consequences, and this results in a reduction in the time limit for resolving cases in the revision process in a way that is proposed for the revision procedure of equal deadlines as deadlines for resolving by appeal under the Law on Administrative Procedure. In the revision process, the second-degree body will deal with administrative cases faster than ever, because under this law it is given the authority to carry out the evidence on its own which has not been provided for so far. The appeal procedure introduces a mandatory review of the party which made the complaint to the Second Instance Medical Commission, and so far the review was only required if the party specifically requested it. The first-stage administrative procedure introduces the principle of oral debate in the review of the party on the First-degree Medical Committee so that the party will be able to make immediate objections to the assessment of the damage to the body and receive answers from members of the Medical Committee to objections. It shall cease to be possible to renew the administrative procedure beyond the deadlines provided for by the Administrative Procedure Act. More precisely, the recognition of the right to pay the costs of the administrative procedure and the release of the payment of the administrative fee is regulated. By means of all these legal amendments that are certainly related to the highest part with compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act, it is certainly necessary to say that the improvement and more precisely written as can and can be used, and the Regulation will also define how one-time use is used. how supplies are used and who can use them under what conditions. There were certain disputes, so they are now defined. The deadlines shall be reduced from 60 to 30 days in the adoption of the opinion of the medical councils and shall certainly all of the proposed amendments and additions to the law shall be in favour of the speed of settlement of proceedings before first-degree and second-degree bodies, and shall be specified exactly which bodies are responsible for which areas of action. The HDZ Club fully supports the adoption of amendments and additions to this law and we hope it will benefit the Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72644	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic. A respected colleague of parliament, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, will make statements on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72645	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here on behalf of the SDP club, I can say that we support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. Of course, we support all proposals that will lead to a more efficient and faster settlement of administrative cases and thus reduce the dissatisfaction of the defenders because of the lengthy resolution of their cases. So here we see alignment with the General Procedure Act, of course, with the idea that the procedures of special administrative procedures should be reduced to a minimum. The audit remained as a special administrative procedure precisely because I can say in one way because of the control of state administration offices where there is insufficient capacity to make their first-degree solution actually to become executive. I would also say that here should be thought towards strengthening the first-degree body so that it can be done, in order to be competent. This would speed up the process, and appeal procedures would be resolved in the ministry in this case. I'm talking about decentralisation that should be in this segment. So I take this as a transitional period. I welcome, of course, that the way and procedure on conditions and ways of obtaining supply rights is prescribed, so that in one way the practice is united. Now the first-degree bodies have resolved in accordance with the guidelines, however, the guidance does not have the force of the regulations and that is why I welcome this proposal. The medical committees will also be treated according to the principles of skill. So, for example. when looking for a family disability, then a family member is present at these skills, so he can participate directly and not later in a variety of complaints just stalling the process. Or, for example, in determining or changing disability is now in the art of artisan is present defender which I particularly welcome. Therefore, by adopting this law, the conditions under which Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families have acquired rights remain unchanged means they have no consequence of increasing or reducing existing rights. Given that the state budget provides relatively large funds for the payment of these permanent rights, and we know that they amount to 745 million kuna in 2010, I believe that, of course, it is justified and the social interest to use the appropriations for the payment of these rights in a legitimate way. And that is why this law provides for the further existence of the said revision and, in fact, to get as positive solutions as possible. However, I would take advantage of the opportunity here, so I would say that the problems that plague our defenders are problems that are similar to all other people in our community mean to all other categories of people who are in a state of social and health protection needs. So, with us it still seems to me that already the old-fashioned way of taking care of that population of ours through material givings. This means that most of the rights received by defenders are based on the mere giving of that particular material part. He should, I don't say, but most of the time we talk about pensions, disability, and various other rights that are mostly based on relief or exemption from payment. In the field of providing services to defenders, they have appeared as diverse as we know existing state offices, so the Centers for Psychological Assistance, however, we believe that they are poorly organised with small resources, very often without adequate space. I know that local self-government or local regional self-government is obliged to ensure that, but I am speaking in general about the problem of defenders who do so very often part-time, work often without adequate education to perform such a complex, very important job. Therefore, this situation, unfortunately, can often be encouraged to go even deeper into deeper pathology through giving such material rights, not looking at these other needs of the defenders. Not to mention the very harsh news that we sometimes hear about suicide or domestic violence, etc. to which we are all very, very sensitive. Therefore, I do not think that we should look apart from the crisis that affects our entire country and our society because systems very often do not work because of excessive red tape. And what we're probably all concerned about together is often defense associations that are divided. Everyone has a copy in their midst, we actually have examples in our midst. So I have to point out here when we talk about defenders that they need a conversation and that they need time to be devoted, that we need to listen carefully and understand their problems, means helping them not only materially, but with advice, psychotherapy, empower them, motivate them, in fact with the same elan that they were defending our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72646	Thank you very much, colleague. It is next to the HSS Club of Honorable Fellow Representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72647	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. As well as a number of other laws, this law must be brought into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which came into force at the beginning of last year, and it is also necessary to do so for the closure of Chapter 23. An analysis of the compliance of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has also been carried out by an expert group from the Kingdom of Denmark and has therefore joined this harmonisation. However, most of what is changed refers to terminology while only a small part of it needs to be brought into line with the principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This legislative proposal will bring some changes that we at the Croatian Peasants' Club believe will positively reflect on its implementation in practice. First of all, this refers to the reduction of time limits for resolving cases in the revision process such as deadlines for resolving complaints under the General Administrative Procedure Act. Furthermore, in the review process, the second-degree body will deal with administrative cases more quickly as it receives the authority to carry out the evidence on its own, and this has not been the case so far. At the same time, the appeal procedure introduces a mandatory review of the party which has declared its complaint with the second-degree medical committee, while so far the review has only been required if the party specifically requested it. In addition, the first-degree administrative procedure introduces the principle of oral debate when reviewing the party on the first-degree medical committee so that the party has the opportunity to object immediately during the review to the assessment of the damage to the body and to obtain answers from the members of the Medical Committee. The renewal of the administrative procedure beyond the deadlines provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act will no longer be possible and more precise arrangements and recognition of the right to pay the costs of the administrative procedure and the exemption from the payment of the administrative fee shall be made. It should be pointed out that the adoption of this law will not change the conditions under which Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family have acquired rights and we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing today will positively affect their implementation, with of course already mentioned the obligation of legal harmonisation. It is good that the revision of the positive solutions of this legislative proposal is still foreseen, since it is a matter of controlling the legality of positive solutions on the basis of which monetary rights are recognised as the protection of the budget and, in addition, the revision process is almost fully in line with the principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since the state budget of the Republic of Croatia provides relatively large funds for the payment of permanent rights, this amount was around 745 million kuna in 2010, it is in the interest of all Croatian citizens that these funds are being spent in a legal way, which we must say, has not always been the case. In 2010 a total of 4300 first-degree solutions on recognition of the status and rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families were annulled because of the illegality in the process of reviewing and appeal. Without a revision delaying the implementation of the first-degree solution, it would become final and executive and resulting in damage to the state budget. It is not disputed that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families have rights and these rights will not change with this proposal. Therefore, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe it is necessary to do everything that is behind those who are responsible for the defence of Croatia do not hide those who have acquired these rights in one way or in one way or another and if they do not have the right to do so. It must certainly be put to an end, and especially under such economic conditions, we must not allow it. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72648	Thank you, Your Honor. We've run out of club applications. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Ivan Škaričić, signed up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Amendments and additions to this law should be brought into line with the CFSP, and this is also the condition for the closure of Chapter 23 in the negotiation process with the European Union. These amendments and additions are also the result of an analysis carried out by the Danish expert group and are based on this analysis in line with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with the provisions of the ZUP. I'll list the positive consequences of this bill. The deadlines for resolving cases in the revision process are shortened, and then, in the review procedure, the second-degree body will be able to resolve administrative cases faster than before, as it is now given the authority to carry out the evidence on its own. In the appeal procedure, imports shall be subject to a mandatory review of the party which declared the complaint in the second instance... the commission, and so far it was only on the express request of the party. [[You don't understand.]] Then, the first-degree procedure introduces the principle of oral debate in the review of the party so that the party gets the possibility of objecting immediately, as well as the response by the Medical Commission. Then, the possibility to renew the procedure beyond the deadlines provided for by the ZUP ceases... It should be pointed out that by adopting this law, the rights acquired by Croatian defenders and members of their families remain unchanged, which is very important. [[You don't understand.]] This law also provides for the further existence of a revision of positive solutions. Then, this legal review procedure is in line with the ZUP and all that is stated is certain improvements in relation to the current situation and thus the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families will be further easier and faster absorbed and I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72650	Thank you very much. And colleague Mato Bilnjic submitted his application for participation in the debate at this point, so here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, just a few words. Surely by harmonising the law to improve the status of Croatian defenders in the procedural part where certain deadlines are shortened, and thus the defenders come before their solutions, whether through regular or through this appeal section. What is to be noted is that this amendment of the law solves the problems of Croatian defenders who are located in areas of special state concern, that it is accurately described means their housing in the possession of the facilities that they gave the house or apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia. And this law, which these days will also be in the process, means the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas of Special State Care, will solve another problem that we have on the ground. In fact, before the Law on the donation of objects came into force, it means that residents do not have the right to present gifts in the form of a house or building material or an apartment of defenders before they died. However, this law provides that the family of the deceased not only the deceased defender, but the deceased defender is entitled to that part. I'll just look back at something that's happening to us on the ground, which is, in Article 35, when hiring a state administration body, the judicial authorities, and other state authorities, units of local and regional (regional) self-government mandatory when hiring employees, the furniture gives priority to the unemployed if it meets the requirements of the competition, or advertising in the following order. A child of the dead, injured Croatian defender without both parents of the RVI Homeland War, a member of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender, a volunteer of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders and the Homeland War. And then under paragraph two of the public service, public institutions outside the budgetary and budgetary funds, legal entities owned or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons owned or predominantly owned by local units, regional self-governments shall have the same obligation. We know that, unfortunately, in the field, we are going to have those who are reviewing the competition open so that it is known in advance, mostly at local levels in municipal enterprises and agencies to open a competition just by graduation that there is someone who needs to be admitted and then we have one obstacle that the Croatian defender in that section cannot have that advantage, or as they do not meet the conditions, and here, even though he said in Article 35(4) that the inspectorate would do so. I think the inspectorates would have to do that part, so when they accept not to allow a reception solution until the solution is resolved that it should be settled in favour of Croatian defenders because some tenders look like they drew a man. He's about to get his picture tape tape glued to his advertising board, and they say we're looking for this guy and that man. And I think Croatian defenders mainly at municipal, urban and county levels deserve to take another small step. Here are the changes that have taken a lot of steps towards facilitating the lives and rights of Croatian defenders. But I think in this jobing that once again in this inspectorate you should see with them that you can't write a minority contest like they put his picture on both the age and everything. Thank you very much. I will certainly support and thank the Ministry for this proposal on behalf of all those defenders mostly of my soldiers who were with me in the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72652	Thank you very much, colleague. We've exhausted all applications for an individual debate, so I'm concluding this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And we believe that the terms will be tomorrow at 12:00 because in 1200 hours, the vote is announced. We've processed everything the committees and services have prepared for today's session. It means we've been worth it, and then we'll bring today's debate to an end. And tomorrow, as usual, at 9.30 p.m., start with point 30. This is the report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union, from 1 July to 31 December 2010. Thank you very much for your constructive participation in the debates. I'm closing today's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-05-0.u72653	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 777. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, which was adopted during the debate by the proposer's representative, and we do not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft of the law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 95 votes. ... and we move to the announced item of the agenda - - Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which delivers the report in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly adopted on... [[Home is not saved.]] session held on 6 October 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal, the report? Ms. Martina Dalic, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
