ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71172	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, the esteemed representatives of the Croatian Parliament, members of the diplomatic community, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to thank you, Mr. President, for calling. It is an honor to have this opportunity to address the MPs of the Parliament. Let me begin by congratulating you honestly because I was told that in a month this building will celebrate its 237th birthday. The Croatian Parliament first met on 6 May 1737, although earlier sessions came from the 13th century. This shows how deeply the old Croatian democracy is rooted. After certain problems and human sufferings that have caused very turbulence, and sometimes painful events in the 20th century, I am glad to be able to address representatives about what today is a viable democratic Croatian nation. You represent the Croatian people, you are elected directly. You've been elected by the citizens of this country and we greatly appreciate it and admire it. But this month, Croatia celebrates another important date, on 20 April 2004, the European Commission gave a positive opinion on Croatia's request for EU membership. A request for EU membership helped open an important Croatian history site and its accession will begin a promising new phase. But I assure you that this is also a historic moment for the European Union itself. As you know, the European perspective of the Western Balkans remains high on the EU agenda and my current visit to the region begins here in Zagreb and is in fact a sign of our commitment to this historic goal, which is the further expansion of our EU. EU accession is an integral part of the European nations' search and efforts to consolidate democracy, stability and achieve sustainable economic development. In the 50's we saw when 6 European Community founders started the project after the devastating war, World War II, which was, in fact, a largely European civil war. This is what we saw in the 1980s when the southern countries of Greece, Portugal, Spain when they joined the European Community, and that was a way to ensure their transition to democracy and consolidation of democracy in those countries. We also saw this in 2004 and 2007 when the countries of Central Eastern Europe entered the EU to consolidate the changes in their regimes and their aspirations for freedom, justice and solidarity. We will also see it at the beginning of this new decade by joining Croatia, and then also by joining the Western Balkan countries. Croatia's upcoming accession will certainly act as a catalyst for the entire region to move stable towards the EU. It is my pleasure, therefore, to visit Croatia now at a time when accession negotiations have entered their final stage, and their completion is indeed within reach. In recent years, Croatia has made significant progress, and overall speaking it is impressive I could say a historical result. It shows your country's determination to continue its reforms, but it also shows the EU's commitment to act on the principle of its own achievements. You are now in this last section of your trip to EU membership. And as it generally happens in every negotiation process, that's the hardest part. Very difficult preparations for EU membership are a difficult task, challenging but also valuable because real demanding reforms are needed to join the EU. This is about credibility, and the conditions for it are a guarantee of credibility. European citizens must know that once you join the EU that this means that your country is truly ready to do so. But I am sure that even if it were not for you to join the EU that these reforms are to the welfare and prosperity, the progress of Croatian citizens and Croatian nations. I know you've defined them as a national priority and you've been able to agree on that. EU accession will also bring about a real change in the lives of Croatian citizens. The final destination is what will reward you most, but the road there is worth joining. My visit today is useful, I have had a useful, constructive meeting with Prime Minister Kosor, we have discussed the need to maintain the momentum of accession negotiations more than ever in this crucial time. In the end, it is in Croatia to retain and increase this momentum. The end of the negotiations will obviously depend on when Croatia ends, ending key remaining reforms that need to be addressed with strong determination. I want to assure you that you can count on permanent support from the commission. The message I bring to Croatia, to your Parliament, to the Parliament, to the Croatian people is that the European Commission is looking forward to welcoming you as the 28th member of our EU. Member States have high expectations from Croatia. As you know, they are waiting for Croatia to give strong concrete results of reforms. You must show that progress is credible and sustainable. The area of justice and the fundamental rights of Chapter 23 is most likely the most difficult chapter. The Commission carried out an inventory of this situation on the provisional report of March. Croatia has certainly made great progress, but many standards still need to be met. Improvements in judicial reform are needed, in the fight against corruption in order to ensure a full investigation of war crimes and to improve enforcement of minority rights legislation. It is important for Croatia to continue to focus efforts on these areas to ensure that the reforms undertaken will indeed bring real sustainable credible changes. It is primarily in the interest of all Croatian citizens. Mr. President, MPs, as I all know about parliaments play a central role in democratic life. Now let me tell you something very personal. As a former prime minister, as well as leader of the opposition, MP in parliament in my own country, I know what it means to be an MP in parliament, I know how important the role of parliaments in all our Member States is. It is indeed the core of democracy. This is where all the sensitive subjects of the nation are represented, there are important debates, strategic decisions are made. I highly appreciate the democratic debate and it is in the very foundations of our European values. I know you'll have an important election moment coming your way. The temperature will rise as it always happens in election campaigns on such occasions. But I'd like to ask you something here if I can. The request is that, in fact, the process of European accession continues to be a process of national unity. It is essential, as we have seen in some other cases in European accession and in European life, that parties committed to the welfare of their countries can work on a cross-border basis when it comes to issues of national strategic interest. I can tell you that this current government is committed to making progress, to conclude the negotiations soon, this current government is doing a great job in terms of negotiations with the EU. The prime minister has just assured me she won't regret any effort in that direction. I know how sincere Prime Minister Kosor is when he talks about it. But this is more than just a government project or one party. I want to be honest with you. This is not just about one or several parties, it is about a matter of great importance for the future of strategic importance for your country, but for us in the EU too it should be a project for each of us, each Croatian citizen, it is a project for this generation and for many generations in the future. In a resolution on the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in December 2002, this Parliament confirmed: "that Croatia's EU membership is a strategic national goal that should be fully supported by the Parliament." So, the strategic national goal, I could no longer agree with it. That is why I encourage you to stand behind these common ambitions towards this common goal. This House also has a great responsibility in explaining what EU rights and obligations are meant to do with it. I especially commend your decision to establish an alliance with Europe in this Parliament that brings together members of different parties and that is indeed to be commended in these economic difficulties caused by the global crisis. There are many wrong ideas and concepts in the EU. As politicians, you all know that when the situation is more difficult from the economic point of view there are more skepticism, more criticism, it's natural and we need to be prepared for it. But we also have to face rational reasonable arguments. We in the EU are doing our part, but frankly we will not succeed without you because in Brussels our European Parliament in Strasbourg could, we should probably do more to communicate better about what we do in the EU, but we cannot succeed without strong, active support from all our national parliaments. I'll do it a few more times. I say that the EU is not only Brussels or Strasbourg but what we do in each of our countries is important to engage in contact with citizens, inform them about EU membership. This also means preparing for the important benefits arising from EU membership, which is indeed a very positive thing. You've seen a lot of members want to come in. So far, no member of the EU has wanted to come out, and this shows that the EU is obviously something good for the countries and citizens of Europe. When Croatia joins the EU, it will become part of the world's largest single market, the largest trading partner, the world's largest economy, the biggest provider and recipient of direct investment in all regions in the world. Together, the EU, its countries make up the largest economy in the world. Croatia will become a member of the community of more than 500 million people. The EU offers an advantage. We have huge resources compared to other regions in the world. Our citizens are well-educated, well-trained, and after accession Croatia will become an active participant in our European strategy for a sustainable economy. It is our strategy to deal with common challenges, to stimulate growth and to function in this highly dependent interdependent world. In the world, it is our strategy to address common challenges and turn them into common benefits, but these benefits do not come from themselves, we must prepare well to reap the advantages that come from these opportunities. After the accession of regional and rural development, funds for this development will be available to Croatia. This will contribute to job creation, and European funds will contribute to the development of infrastructure in key sectors of environmental protection, transport, as is already the case with pre-accession funds available to Croatia. Of course, the more prepared Croatian institutions will be more able to prepare for this market and the same goes for citizens. I would like to say here that last week in Luxembourg, the Zagreb Law Faculty won a significant prize in the competition, congratulations on the Zagreb team. Once you join the European Union, you will be part of a Union where the identities and traditions of each member are respected. I want to point out that our motto is unity in diversity. No member of the European Union has lost its identity because it has entered the Union, on the contrary, we in the European Union are very proud of the identities of our Member States' history. Croatian will be the official language of the European Union. Our diversity is not a weakness, on the contrary, it is a great power, provided that there is a common political will to work together and in the world. The European Union wants to highlight this, thanks to Croatian diversity and dynamicism. When Croatia enters, I would like to quote Article 2. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, therefore, of the Lisbon Treaty, quotes: "The Union is based on the principles of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, which includes the rights of people belonging to minorities." We look forward to Croatia's active contribution to bringing its neighbours closer to the European Union. I know how committed you are to the prospects of EU enlargement to the region. I encourage Croatia to continue the reconciliation process and close the past chapter on war crimes and missing persons. Many families do not know where their loved ones are, and what huge progress it will be if we think that this region that was faced with such a terrible war can one day become, is in the spirit of reconciliation within the European Union. Mr. President, honourable representatives, the stakes for Croatia are high for the region as well as for the European Union. As I have already said, when the negotiations will end depends on the completion of the reforms in Croatia, but I think it is important that you be fully prepared. It's a matter of mutual trust and credibility, of mutual solidarity. I encourage you in the final phase of the negotiations, I would like to congratulate you on the very impressive progress you have made so far, but I also want to tell you that we must finalise these efforts. I am sure that your citizens can be convinced that Croatia will do anything to be fully prepared soon with the support of the European Commission to join the European Union, and trust is the key. As one great European said many centuries ago, Seneca, I quote: "The lack of trust is not the result of difficulty, the difficulty arises due to lack of confidence". I think it's important for our political decisions, to trust. As politicians, we must never underestimate difficulties, but it is not with negativeism and pessimism or cynicism. We will not overcome difficulties like this, we must have faith in our future, in our mutual cooperation, and that is the message I bear to you, to this Parliament, to Croatian people, to the message of trust in your country, to the message of confidence in success. The European Commission will continue to work with you in the final part of the negotiating path, and we look forward to welcoming you as the 28th Member State of the European Union soon. We wish you and the Croatian people all the best and thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71173	I thank His Excellency Mr Jose Manuel Barroso for his address, as well as the friendly messages and support he gives us in our efforts to join the European Union. Thank you very much again, Mr. Barroso. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the session continues as we agreed earlier. Thank you very much. Six. Proposal for a law on a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 751. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Finance Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71281	Dear ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a proposal for a law on a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis. The purpose is, the fundamental purpose that this law seeks to achieve is to enable, on a daily basis, all the mechanisms of forced collection and tax charges available to the Tax Administration through this law to enable part of the debts incurred and caused by the economic crisis, which existed on 31.12. to enable its payment for a period of 30 months, provided that entrepreneurs meet two essential conditions. The first essential condition is that the right to apply for such a meal payment for 30 months would be given to entrepreneurs who are neat in their payments after 1.1.2011, or entrepreneurs who, when applying for this payment, pay one-off all the tax obligations they have made after 1.1.2011. Following the proposal of this Act, in the event that the law was passed within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, entrepreneurs would be entitled to apply for one-off payment, those who had a debt on 31.12, and if they met one of the two conditions previously stated. We'd have the right to apply for this meal payment. In the decision on the payment of the payment, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration would therefore take into account and consider the reasons why the tax debt, financial and business plan of entrepreneurs for the upcoming period, the willingness of banks and other creditors to also support entrepreneurs in his business in the coming period, and would, of course, consider the insurance instruments offered by the entrepreneur for the period of R&D. I would like to stress here that this bill is in no way about support, that it is not about subsidies, or any reward for taxpayers who are messy in fulfilling their obligations. It is a measure aimed at facilitating the consequences of the economic crisis for those businesses that operate, who have the opportunity during this year and have shown the possibility of paying tax obligations in orderly. The tax administration will, of course, continue with the implementation of all other tax collection measures at its disposal, with this payment measure. So I would like to take this opportunity and inform you that the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance, that against taxpayers who meet the terms of the reduced bankruptcy procedures, that the requirements of the court have started to apply, and by the end of this month, the number of applications submitted for reduced bankruptcy procedures will be reached by a thousand. This measure, however, wants and intends to contribute and reduce the problem of indifference faced by entrepreneurs, and what is more important is the issues of the terms of the reprogramme, i.e. the issue of the interest rate during the payment period. The law suggests that the interest rate during the payment is 5 percentage points above the interest rate on one-year vault records, which at this point is approximately 8.25%. During the payment of the tax debt, the taxpayer would be considered to have a regulated tax debt. This interest rate has been proposed in a way that is consistent with market conditions, in a way that facilitates the burden of tightening interest during the payment, during the payment period, and that it also continues to bear a signal and a message that, the basic message that taxes must be paid neatly. Therefore, this measure is one-off, and given the way this measure is proposed and given the reasons for which it is proposed, I do not need to be calculated and I want to make use of it, and I do not need to inform you, taxpayers do not need to count on such a tax measure to apply to tax debts resulting from 1 January 2011. Maybe a word, two why a 30-month meal payment is proposed. It is precisely because this measure wants to act on the tax debts caused by the economic crisis, and as we remember, the economic crisis began to spill on our economy somewhere in the autumn of 2008. In fact, in fact, the period of paid-off is also proposed to be the same period as the economic crisis behind us. At the end of this argument, I would like to point out once again that those who report for this meal payout must, in addition to evidence of the possibility and willingness to make a payment, have both evidence and willingness that they are ready for any reprogrammes of their debts and support and other creditors. Therefore, this measure is also not a way and should not be interpreted as a way or possibility that a burden might be transferred to the State by other creditors, in the first place by the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71282	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mr. Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71283	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Minister, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 73rd session held on 5 April 2011, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis as a home working body. In the opening statement of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, she pointed out that the proposed law regulates the conditions, manner and procedure for the collection of income and unpaid, i.e. non-payment of the tax debt incurred by 31 December 2010, with the basis of taxes, customs duties, excise duties and contributions, other than contributions to individual pension insurance, and pension insurance based individual capitalised savings. The reprogramming of the tax debt shall be carried out at the request of an entrepreneur who fulfils the conditions laid down by this law for up to 30 months, with a prescribed interest rate of around 8.3% at present. The discussion on the board held that the adoption of this law is only one of the measures that should be addressed as soon as possible by the state with regard to non-payment of tax debt, which would also contribute to the resolution of the liquidity problem. However, the debate stressed that the proposed law should certainly be supported because its provisions create better conditions for making the tax debt easier, the collection of future tax duties, as well as for ensuring liquidity and the survival of entrepreneurs. In addition to the benefits that this law will have for entrepreneurs, the state will have them, as its adoption will ensure better charge of the state budget from the basis of the tax debt collection. It is also pointed out in the debate that the mutual benefit is because the situation in entrepreneurs is relaxed, and it also allows for a safe payment of tax debt, and that a very acceptable interest rate of 8.3% is compared to the legal tightening interest of 14%, which has so far been paid for the backlog of the tax debt. However, in the context of Article 7 of this proposal, an opinion has been delivered and this Article 7 provides that the law will refuse to apply for reprogramming the tax debt payment if the applicant applying is not an orderly taxpayer after 1 January 2011. In connection with this proposal, the law proposed to supplement that the request would also be rejected for all those entrepreneurs who at the time had a tax debt, but at the same time paid a share in profits or dividends after 31 October 2008 paid profits, while at the same time having a tax debt. This was also stated and pointed out that they certainly did not then have a problem with liquidity and that the non-payment of tax debt was not the reason for non-payment if they had money to pay off and dividends. After the debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on a special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis together with the following amendment: Article 7 in paragraph 4 adds a new indent and reads: "The request will be rejected if the taxpayer has made a dividend, profit or advance payment in the period from 1 October 2008 and at the same time had a tax debt." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71284	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives is Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71285	Mr. President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. A certain flaw in this bill's proposal is that we don't have an assessment of the situation to really try and figure out what this problem is in the Republic of Croatia. Then let me at least say on behalf of the SDP club that score through the figures we've been able to get to. It is certain that 36.7 billion kuna of unpaid bills in the Republic of Croatia is something that very much needs to be concerned about the government, we should also be concerned in the Croatian Parliament. It's a number that wasn't alarming. It wasn't even supposed to happen. It is a figure that we had to fight all last year, but obviously enough attention to the continuous increase in indifference in the Republic of Croatia did not give the necessary attention. Let's go back now to how much it's an estimate of outstanding debts. Somewhere, it is estimated that unpaid debts amount to slightly less than 13 billion kuna. So these are the claims of the state budget to the economy. But what's even more worrying, the number that's been said very little, it's due, and according to the two laws so far, is whether the budget or special tax law we have somewhere to estimate that 20 billion dues have been agreed on the payment of the payment. Which means we're going over 30 billion liabilities to the state budget. These are the figures that are worrying, these are the figures that show that the businessmen are not able to pay not only taxes but unfortunately also contribute. And certainly the figures that we know 80,000 legal entities that are blocked, where there's clearly a good half of them, there's no possibility of staying on the market and trying to function. Which means that again, even the existing solutions in the Banks Act, and I would say that cleaning up failures from the market have no results and, in fact, those who are really incompetent, who have created huge commitments, are jeopardizing that part of the healthy economy. These are all numbers that simply look for solutions. What have we had so far from the solution? So far, I am saying, apart from a solution through the General Tax Law and the Budget Implementation Act, we had special measures for economic recovery. These are those models for financial consolidation in the economy of A, B and C of which, I would say, model A was quite successful, but apparently did not fix the numbers related to individence. Which means the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not act, but these effects remained negative with the trends of continuous growth. And that's why in the SDP club and this measure, we support this new bill proposal and we estimate that it is possible to achieve some improvements, but let's be honest, we believe that individual measures, non-constitutional measures, will not solve this problem. We may mitigate this negative trend, but the question is whether or not we're going to stop the negative trend of indivisibility in the Republic of Croatia. A few words on behalf of the club regarding the bill itself. First of all, at the club, we don't think a good date has been chosen. Why 31.12.2010? If such a large number of legal entities are inequitable, if such large numbers are due to the state, why not use the date 31.03.2011? So the last month before this law was passed. And I think it will be far more correct that if we respect that the problems are in the economy, and obviously that this law is not without it, our proposal and we will go with the amendment to date 31.03 and we will cover those dates. Because just what are we going to do? We're going to go to 31.12 and now we're going to have huge problems. Those who do not pay contributions to salaries suddenly have to pay for 2 months and we will have an insufficient effect. So we're gonna lose a good part of the economy because we haven't covered the first three months of this year. So it's our suggestion to have the greatest effect of this law really apply to 31.03 because it's the last period before this law is passed. We also find it unacceptable to have an unequal relationship between the tax administration and the government in our measures towards the economy. A good part of the economy has so far been reprogrammed by the General Tax Law for 10 months with 14% of its commitment. Reading Article 2 does not cover them. And we will now, on three legal grounds, have complete inequality with the businessmen. That's not necessary. So why some of us have 10 months with 14%, now we're going to have the others at 30 months with 8 and some percent. Our proposal is to include all those who did not settle their obligations in due time, so if they had settled them, I would say, on a round-the-clock payment, let's install that this law applies to them too. So, it can keep the payment but it can also require it to use new opportunities I would say support in economic policy, which is through the Law on a special rate of tax collection. In that part, the SDP has proposed an amendment that means we try to put all the businessmen in a relatively equal position, not that someone who regulated their obligation under another law, and it is the same legal basis that we now see that he is in an unequal position. The same is true if we do not enter into debates as to whether the users of the state budget are at peace in time. Because it is evident that part of the economy has failed to collect its claims from the users of the state budget. Therefore, we believe that tax debt should be taken into account. So the tax debt of the user was beaten up for claims against the users of the state budget. It is also an amendment to Article 2 of the SDP Club to simply try through this law as much as possible. It was also responsible to try to see what happened to some state-owned enterprises that also don't pay in time, but I'm starting state-owned enterprises are not users of the state budget, but I'd say legal persons with revenues so it's hard to install them into this Tax Act. But here with these few amendments, this law would be more effective, include a little more economic operators, it would be fairer because in many ways it would equalise, and on the other hand we think that such a bill would be more efficient, faster. There will be no complications for these three months in 2011. As I said, the SDP club believes that, unfortunately, this measure is not what complete solutions can give and will remain a problem. The SDP Club believes that, with a law like this, it was necessary to reconsider the law on how to pay and pay in the Republic of Croatia. And it is evident when we consider what is happening in the Republic of Croatia with this measure we see that the Ministry of Finance and the Government will try to help taxpayers. Unfortunately, the banking system isn't turned to this kind of thinking. It is not just tax obligations that problems are also obligations to annuities that are not executed. The arrangements with the banking system are going very hard. Therefore, consolidation of the financial business of certain entities employing a large number of people and entities that can still survive on the Croatian market has not been successful. And I therefore believe that the Law on Payments which would define and the obligation within which time limits must be paid, but probably some pre-trial proceedings outside the court where the state or government with bankers would have to find a solution so that entities do not shut down and solutions through such a law would also be a huge aid to legal entities and entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is a pity that, when this law is already going on, we have not thought about the Payments Act, we have not thought about how to have similar funding measures, reprogramming I would say the impact on the interest rate is not defined by a special Payments Act where, without a court in accelerated state procedures, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and other government creditors, they can make better arrangements with the banking system, and all in order to save jobs and to save the economy. Therefore, the SDP club advocates making the government of the Republic of Croatia more active in trying to save debtors in trying to save jobs. The SDP Club will support this bill proposal with a request from the Ministry of Finance and the Government to really try to accept our amendments and understand that this is fairer to entrepreneurs, that it will give a greater effect and we remind again that it would be interesting to consider a certain law on how to pay in the Republic of Croatia. And maybe two words about one problem that the Ministry of Finance realizes that more and more problems for account blockades, deblock accounts, the way FINA operates, are not just entrepreneurs and our fellow citizens and that there's something wrong with that system. Therefore, if the ministry only assesses that some solutions in that section should make sure that entrepreneurs who travel fall into a blockade and do not have the opportunity to remove the blockade they paid and the debts, it is evident that a legal measure is also needed in that part. Well, we're warning the Ministry of Problems, and I think it's easy to detect them if they solve these problems with FINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71286	Thank you. We also have one correction, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I agree with most of my counterpart Linic's debate, I would however like to correct two things, which is that the state does not pay its commitments in a certain way puts entrepreneurs in a position not to pay its commitments. That's just not true. It can be seen in the implementation of the budget as far as the commitment from the budget has been made, the Fiscal Responsibility Act defines that no minister can spend more than he has, and that has been the case before. And the other thing, according to company state reports on state-of-the-art state-owned enterprises, none of these companies have more than 60 days to pay. However, counterpart Linic, there is something that you may have wanted to say but you did not, and that is to say to whoever got a job in the salary contest, but he does not pay his subcontractors and then these people are in this problem. And the third thing that is, it's not mentioned here, and that's that among these 36 billion 60% is those who don't have one employee or over 20 grand or 60% by looking nominally quiet, and we need to solve this problem then the image on the liquidity of the tax debt will be exactly the same, but we can go back to the Law on income and unpaid claims. In practice, many of those who were to get rid of the law are still being treated as taxpayers today. So, we have to figure out how to clear out tax accounts of those who owe for years, I can't, practically don't exist anymore, I can't pay my dues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71288	Thank you. I will once again ask the clubs primarily to ensure the presence of representatives at 15.30 for the address of the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, so I think it is time to gather representatives and deputies to make us more. Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71289	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with the Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, we have been talking only about the economic crisis and it is not disputed that the economic crisis has shown all its destruction, brought all the destruction it brings with it, and all the consequences already economic history has confirmed what major economic crises such as these bring with them. What are the biggest consequences of this crisis? The biggest drop in economic activity, the increase in unemployment, increase in liquidity, drop in purchasing power and consumption. But in Croatia, all these indicators were more pronounced than the crisis itself carries with it. Why, in addition to having problems because of the economic crisis, many have abused that position and that situation. Why economic downturns were higher than the economic crisis caused, and primarily because during the economic crisis the credit activity of business banks was lower than in the pre-crisis period. Or, when the banking system was more liquid and it had more credit activity than when it was more liquid, when it had an excess liquidity on average of 6 billion kuna, the credit activity of banks was reduced. This further strengthened the effects of the economic crisis and contributed to an even greater economic downturn. Why there has been more unemployment than the economic crisis has caused, and because the fall in economic activity has led to the necessary consequences of the layoff of employees, but some entrepreneurs who have increased their productivity by further layoffs, even though this is not what the situation has asked them to do. They used it, which is why the higher percentage of unemployment increases than the fall itself caused. You know how many times I've talked about Okun's law, how much economic downturn it causes and the rise in unemployment. It's twice as high for these reasons, because the companies that did the biggest profit were firing employees, and they didn't have to do that, but they increased both the profits and productivity precisely on the basis of the layoffs of employees. Why was the increase in indifference even greater than would be the result of the economic crisis? Because all business entities, all entrepreneurs at the previously approved credits of the business bank raised interest rates and had planned expenditures in business plans for certain amounts of interest rates, and then surprised them by the situation that they had increased the war by 30% or 35%. Of course, this affected the indifference of entrepreneurs, the inability to pay their obligations and the inability to pay and tax. At the same time, new loans could not be made either because of the bad situation they found themselves in, but also because of a new increase in interest rates because it was unfavourable. What happened to the citizens? Similarly, purchasing power decreased because most citizens in charge overnight simply changed their interest rate and increased the repayment rate by 30%. This reduces demand, and as soon as demand decreases, production also decreases. This further strengthened the consequences of the economic crisis. Then what should the state do in such a situation? The three key economic roles of the country are: it must correct market failures and defects, it must bring justice programmes and must promote economic growth. This is one direct measure, this bill is a direct measure that will have direct positive effects, but also indirect. Directly because it is mutually beneficial for entrepreneurs, it relaxes the situation with entrepreneurs to enable them to relax and pay off their obligations to the state, while at the same time the state will charge its claim. But it will also have an indirect impact on economic growth, and most of all, because entrepreneurs will become more liquid, which will enable them to finance their new activities. The HDZ Club believes that this law should also be supported in particular by the amendment proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget to exclude those who did not pay their commitments from this reprogramming programme, and that was not the reason for their indifference because at the same time they were paying the share in profits or dividends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71290	Thank you. On behalf of the club HNS and HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71291	Dear Mr. President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis, and it seems to me that this is facing our reality. So, solving the consequences and the price that we don't have a system that can prevent these events, because not all debts are certainly created in the escalation of this crisis, but a large number of debts have been drawn back for years. Therefore, what to say about this law rather than that it is necessarily evil, that it is a law of limited reach and limited duration. Of course, for some better-quality assessment of this law, there is no real assessment of the situation under this law. And I have personally been in this House for eight years now for something that would be much more permanent, something that would be for all time. Because the difficulties in business do not have to be caused by an economic crisis that outside affects our economy but also by other relations. For eight years now, I have been pushing for us to amend the Bank's Act, to install something called and that has almost all normal countries in the world committed to bankruptcy settlements if it is an entrepreneur, if it is an economic operator in difficulty, and that pre-profit settlement includes everything from debt reprogrammes to equity portfolios in terms of debt compensation. This would be one more permanent arrangement and would not have to be then this area and would not have to be passed, such laws of limited duration, or limited reach would not have to be passed. What is the fundamental disadvantage that this law sees in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired is the category of interest. What does that mean? If the reprogramme will work with existing tight interest rates then, and they range between 15% and 17%, then it's very difficult for any entrepreneur to pay for it. Either this law has no jurisdiction to determine otherwise the interest or it will be accounted for under the General interest law. Of course there is a solution here, but here is a solution that contains decisions on debt and interest reprogramming, which means that interest will be settled, and how many of these will be in this law do not write. For one recovery, the economy will certainly remain on interest 15, 17% of those who are in trouble will not be able to pay and will never be able to resolve it. And the consequence is that once the economy is killed, it can't be returned that easily and that's the case with most companies. That is why it is wise for these companies to breathe not only through this debt reprogramming law, but perhaps it was necessary to consider a kind of moratorium. So, more than we have now. Of course, the state here has to give up a lot in order to get much more in the long run. This is about once, the need for a brave step and giving up part of its share of its claims that in the future the system of the state budget, the tax system, the system of contributions would work much better than it is now. Of course, the criteria to be followed when adopting and reprogramming debts are not called upon only by the State. Of course, economics were invited because one thing that is certainly not disputed was that the businessmen did not participate in this to a sufficient extent. But it's not even questionable that this has to be done and it's already too late to do this. Because if it's still waiting, then it's certain that 30 to 40% of our economy is just going to die because now it's on the air. This act certainly puts a test on the ability and legitimacy of the state. It's hard to talk at eight years in a row about ability. It is also difficult to talk about the legitimacy that I do not reproduce but rather the discussions that took place here and there is no point in dealing with things that have already been said. But the fact is, it's hard. We always have to ask ourselves, in this act, whether we send a bad message to those who meet their obligations in orderly. Will they treat themselves with forgiveness as fools because they meet all their obligations to the state. Of course, in that system, we should also have a system of bonus malasses, that we have a part of flexible obligations in a positive way for those who meet their obligations in order to meet their obligations properly, as we have a penalty for interest rates for those who are unsettlingly fulfilling their obligations. But there is no need to be afraid of it, because if we do not intervene what is unhealthy in the economy will anyway die, and the state must help those who have even the slightest chance to survive because it is generally socially acceptable because it is necessary, and because it is ultimately a test of responsibility in this thorn. What's good and what can calm anyone down doesn't write off debts, certain obligations can be reduced, but it will certainly help by postponing and reprogramming payments, until they start working and we feel that the 30-month deadline is solid. A significant aid would indeed be, as I have already said in writing off a part of the tight interest, which is at least double the standard and which is a good part of the company's asphyxiation, it would be, it would stimulate and pay regularly because they would not be penalized with tight interest, and the state should not shoe, those who are already on the floor, and still have a chance to get up. The write-off would refer to the difference between regular and tight interest rates, because it is the fatal one for companies in difficulty. Such solutions are important for the healthy ones, who have always paid in time, and that is actually my answer that they do not feel bad, because they also know that we are all in a connected system and that if they die they will not have anyone to work with, if there is simply no or tomorrow there is no 30 to 50% economy. Is this measure enough to heal fallen businesses? Certainly not enough measure, a part of the debt could be resolved through specific funds and through special procedures to replace claims for equity stakes, I said back to the beginning we do not, unfortunately, have the possibility of a pre-fashion settlement that could make it possible, but can also be made by special laws. If this is dealt with by a special law, it can probably be dealt with by a special law. It is certainly acceptable to propose a club, it is acceptable to propose a SDP club on, to include in the law the possibility of beating debts, it significantly speeds up the process and clears the total debt, because it is a two-way street, it is certainly not a one-way street, and of course it is acceptable and the proposal of the Committee that proposed the amendment is very acceptable for us to have a solution on the debt reprogramme not to get those who paid dividend or dividend advances. I've got something that I'd pollemise in Article 7(4) where something in the law is listed as an economic operator's assessment of whether he's a neat or messy taxpayer. I think the category of a neat or messy taxpayer is one label, which she herself means. For me, it would mean a lot more to me that this article would say if he had settled his obligations, taxes and contributions as of 1 January 2011. I don't need a label on whether someone's a neat or messy taxpayer, whether he has settled his obligations every month neatly or has settled everything suddenly because he's had difficulties, it's less important to me. In the end, of course, I made it clear to myself with the minister a formulation of the exemption of contributions for individual capitalised savings from the possibility of reprogramme, although we would prefer to add, on behalf of the club, in Article 9, that in the elimination of the solution, the Ministry of Finance will abolish the solution if they determine that the entrepreneur does not adhere to the deadlines and methods of paying the determined solutions, of course and the payments of the contributions made in the law itself, particularly the contributions to pension insurance based on individual capitalised savings. In the absence of better, better-quality solutions, we will welcome the law in the absence of long-term solutions for the economy, in the absence of preventive solutions, the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Pension Party will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71292	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71293	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of the Hrelja says that this law does not say on which interest the tax debt programme will be implemented. He writes exactly that within a 30-month period, with an interest rate prescribed, an interest rate of an average interest rate on the Treasury's accounts, with a maturity of 364 days, reached at the latest auction of the Treasury's accounts, which preceded the date of entry into force of this law, increased by 5 percentage points, it is now slightly higher than 8%. He also says that entrepreneurs who meet their obligations neatly are not either fools, or feel that way. I think exactly the opposite, these are valuable entrepreneurs, businessmen who are in a far better position than those who have come into trouble with non-payment of the tax debt, and ultimately will not pay the interest rate paid by the users of this reprogramme. I believe they're not fools, but they're in a far better position than the users of this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71294	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71295	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Hrelja said that the state shoemen are the ones who are on the floor. Well, that's incorrectly absolute. This way, however, the state helps those who are in trouble. And so many other measures help those and the guarantee fund in this sense is, therefore, the guarantee fund is the one that also helps those who are in trouble and many other measures of course and support small entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, etc., Mr. colleagues, therefore the struggle for each job ultimately to contribute to pensioners and regular pension payments that we make on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71296	Thank you. Ms. Minister Martina Dalic, on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71297	Thank you very much. Well, I'd actually like to talk about the message issue, and the debate has been highlighted and the question has been raised, so what kind of message do we send to those who pay the tax neatly? We send them a message that they did a good job, and that future taxes should be paid neatly. The Ministry of Finance always, and what is, of course, its legal task, it collects taxes and contributions and all those other public taxes that have been placed on the IRS and the Ministry of Finance in order to charge them. Tax obligations must also be paid neatly. This means that the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration is at the disposal of different collection measures in case it notices that some taxpayers do not pay their tax obligations properly. So last year it was only during 2010. The tax administration has made 27.4 thousand solutions to the severance of money, 22.9 thousand solutions to the pedicure of demand, the solution to the pedicure and the founding of deposits over real estates, the establishment of publishing rights over real estate 3.8 thousand. And you don't have to count in case this law is passed and you don't have to count on the Ministry of Finance to cut down its efforts to collect taxes neatly and to collect tax claims neatly. What this law aims to achieve is that part of the debts which, among other things, and with regard to taxpayers against whom the Ministry of Finance is and which took measures of forced collection and, let's say, were already based on the rights to the property of the Ministry of Finance and thus to enable them to pay that tax. And that's why in the title of this bill, it's called a billing measure. As I said, he is neither a subsidy measure nor a reward measure to those who were messy, he is a billing measure. And as a billing measure, we estimate that precisely because of the economic crisis, it will partly help economic operators who are burdened with this tax debt, to put it that way, to stand on their feet. In fact, this law should also be observed in the context of the overall and overall measures taken by the Government in the context of economic recovery. Because we think that's why he's being complemented because what we're doing with model A, model B, model C, measure like setting up funds for economic co-operation and so on. The reason why this law is proposed right now is because we see and see in economic, individual indicators that we see signs of economic recovery. And right now, we are therefore proposing such a collection measure to contribute to a stronger and faster recovery of persons with difficulties in paying taxes. And I think the data clearly shows that a total set of government measures and gave its results. The value of blockades up to 60 days at the end of February was more than 40% lower than at the end of December, the number of non-equity entities and entities in the blockade was at the end of February 2200 versus 5200 at the end of last year. So, I think these measures and the overall measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia give their results and should be watched all together. However, neither model A nor model B can and will or should be expected to resolve insolvency entities that have been in blockades for more than 1, 2 or 3 years, and just now FINA data show that there are more than 25 thousand entities that have been blocked for more than 5 years. For them there is only one cure for them and for those who actually exist as naked shells only in the legal system for them, as I said the Ministry of Finance in the collection of debts applies the ultimate measure, which is bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71298	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please. She's gone. Then, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71299	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Is this bill good, will it benefit entrepreneurs? I must admit that I cannot even answer this question myself because I expected that in the description of the situation and in the context of the law, information will be given which will answer the question of how much the tax debts of the entrepreneurs concerned by this bill. Not only did Mrs. Minister not give this information in the bill, she did not mention it today by explaining this bill, nor did I get an answer to my representative's question in which I asked for it. How many entrepreneurs in Croatia today owe taxes to the state? We have heard data on the number of insolvency, insolvency, number of different solutions issued by the Ministry, i.e. the Tax Administration, however, we cannot obtain any information on the amount of tax debts from income tax, income tax, VAT, excise duty or total tax debt. At least that's the information we're gonna get. He is important to me because he would answer the question of how much part of the money will temporarily remain available to entrepreneurs who should otherwise be the income of the state. Therefore, the state temporarily leaves that amount of capital, the value of capital, at its disposal to entrepreneurs in order to cope with the difficulties in which they were found. Is that half a billion, a billion, two billion? What money is it? Why doesn't it say anything, and why can't we now get an answer to the question, so how much money does the state temporarily leave to entrepreneurs with the possibility of postponing taxes as a collection measure? Secondly, will those entrepreneurs who leave debts both to the state and to the workers and start new companies have the right to postpone payment of tax obligations? The law, however, states in Article 7 if I do not cheat on the related companies which the applicant is required to provide. But whether the fact that one of these same entrepreneurs has several companies that are more or less connected, in two or three companies is a taxpayer, and in two or three companies, it pays a profit or dividend. Does this bill provide for the possibility of banning those entrepreneurs who deliberately and consciously leave their debts in dead enterprises, societies, debts to the state and employees? Disbursement pays. Is the debt of entrepreneurs to non-payment workers making pay difficult or making it easier for them to submit this request? The state is also trying to make sure that the tax debt will be charged at any time or at any rate with interest. But what about payouts? As part of the Social and Economic Council, it was agreed that by 20 April, the government would propose amendments to the necessary laws in order to avoid future situations for someone to work and not pay. I think this bill is also either possible or necessary to be part of that package. And I can't accept that an entrepreneur can get prolongat tax obligations from the state without even asking whether he pays the workers, whether or not he paid by 31 December of last year and what he did with salaries after 1.1 this year. And not much else. Does the state recognise or accept the prolongat of taxpayers, regardless of whether the entrepreneur will pay the salaries after the arrangement has been made in the deferral of the tax obligations? Would the requirement of prolongata have to be that the entrepreneur regularly pays the wages? What about social contributions, pension and health benefits? Is the obligation to pay off the payment of those social contributions until 31.12 last year in favour of an entrepreneur seeking a prolongat or a negativity? Will the state tolerate the non-payment of contributions even after the conclusion of this arrangement? Of course, there is no official data at this time on how much pension and health contributions are due, so we cannot compare the possible consequences of the proposal that an entrepreneur entering this arrangement must regularly pay salaries and pay pension and health contributions. Are there entrepreneurs who owe the state but at the same time demand from the state? Isn't this an ideal opportunity for wherever the state appears as a tax claim, and also a payer for something to an entrepreneur to carry out a breakthrough measure, as one of the effective ones, not to say the most effective but effective but certainly the fastest ways to regulate mutual obligations. This bill does not foresee the possibility of beating those debts. I think we should take advantage of the situation of passing this law and put the beating wherever the state appears as a debtor to entrepreneurs. Are there settled data and records on entrepreneurs who are taxpayers, while at the same time co-owners or majority owners of other companies that do business positively or will these data have to be requested from another entity? I have not seen in the draft law whose data for the appropriate and approval of the application for prolongat are relevant. Only after answering the question, Madam Minister, how much is the tax debt of entrepreneurs at the moment and whether non-payment of salaries and non-payment of pension and health contributions is it not in the interest of the state to include it in this law as a criterion that will help someone and disqualify the debt? In answer to the question, what have we established with those entrepreneurs who left debts to the state and workers in one company, a new company in which they operate positively? Only after answering these questions will I be able to appreciate whether this bill deserves to be supported or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71300	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71301	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I believe that this Law on the special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis, with the proposal of the Law on the prohibition and prevention of the conduct of unregistered activities, which is also on the agenda of this 23rd session, is particularly important in the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, the reduction of the impact and consequences of the economic crisis on the Croatian economy, and ultimately the impact on the growth of economic activity, the increase of gross domestic products and the reduction of unemployment. In this way, the government is helping entrepreneurs, taxpayers who have problems with paying the tax debt from October 2008 and by the end of 2010 far better measures than account blocking, forced payment, which rarely leads to far greater problems in the business of entrepreneurs, which rarely leads to a pre-departure or bankruptcy situation in certain companies, companies. The government offers this law the possibility that the tax debt caused by the economic crisis is reprogrammed by entrepreneurs, with the fulfilment of certain conditions of 30 months at the prescribed interest rate, which is at the level of the average interest rate on the Treasury's accounts with a maturity of 364 days, was reached at the latest auction of the Treasury records. We heard from the minister that she's a little over 8% today. The adoption of this law is only one of the measures that should address the country's big problem of non-payment of tax debt as soon as possible. I believe this is exactly the beginning of a large tax debt definitely being charged or otherwise removed from the claim item of the Ministry of Finance. In addition to the benefits that entrepreneurs will benefit from in the first place, the businessmen will certainly have the state because the adoption of this law will ensure better filling of the state budget. Of course, there are units of local self-government that will make a more significant payment on the basis of the tax debt. For all this, I believe that this is a very good law, and I fully accept it, with the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71302	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71303	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing this law came while he's significantly late. He calls for a part of the consequences of the economic crisis to be addressed through this, so those who in times of crisis could not meet their tax obligations in time, however, these are the consequences. Why can entrepreneurs not fulfil their obligations and, among other things, their obligations towards the state? Because in Croatia for years we actually have a problem of non-resolved indivisibility, the problem of payment regulation. Although we have it regulated and the laws that obligations must be paid within certain deadlines are not respected. We don't sharpen the problem of non-payment, and we don't sharpen the problem of the guys who are so solvent, and they don't pay their dues, and that's how they get into trouble with the ones who want, they want, and they do business neatly. So, the result of the non-payment of tax liabilities is actually caused by high inequity. If we follow only in these two crisis years that happened with non-payments we see that blocked liabilities or outstanding accounts in those two years doubled, that in recent months the blockades have increased by almost a billion kuna, between 800 and billion kuna. Last published data: December last year 35.8 billion, January this year 36.7 billion blocked accounts. So when we look at the manual, then 84% of the unsettled value is longer than one year, much of which is non-refundable. That part doesn't work out either. It's trying to solve this through the bankruptcy law and through the executive law, and in fact, the biggest problems and those that generate indifference are not being removed from the economic system. It is already said here that, in the very reasoning of the law and the assessment of the situation, we do not have any figures from which the problem of non-payment of tax obligations would be evident. According to some data, some of them were presented by the State Secretary himself at one of the meetings of the Finance Committee, almost in this period since the 1990s almost 50 billion different tax obligations and other state charges have not been charged. On several occasions, the problem of non-payment of tax obligations was tried, those that were naturally accumulated. This was the first time in 2001 when the Law on the collection of taxes and taxes, customs duties, contributions and government taxes was adopted. At that time, some 23 billion kunas of such state claims were recorded. Different models were how to solve this problem, including through write-off debt, but it was possible then to work in such a way since it was the time after the war, war destruction when many companies and disappeared from the economic system and in fact it was the time when the problem of accumulated state claims was to be resolved and to ensure the orderly payment of tax and other non-taxable duties. But what's going on? We now have, according to some estimates, 13.5 billion kuna taxes, contributions, other taxes that have been blocked, and some say even 20 billion kunas that have in some ways regulated their tax debt through rural payments, etc. If that's true then it's a huge problem, it's a huge problem for the budget, and it's a huge problem within the very functioning of payment traffic because if such blockades happen, we're practically going to destroy most of the economic operators. And that's why I'm saying it's good to go with a bill like this, but that's not enough. If we don't solve liquidity, we won't solve the problem and we won't pay the tax debt. What we have now, I now have a General Tax Law which regulates in a certain way the possibility of postponing the tax debt, we have those annual laws on the implementation of the state budget, so let's say in this last law of ours relating to the State budget in 2011 in Articles 44 and 45, we regulate the postponement and payment of the debt, and the sale, write-off and partial write-off of the claim where the Minister of Finance can grant a postponement or a periodical payment of up to a million kuna and write-off or a partial write-off of up of up to 50,000 kuna, of course with interest, which is currently 14%. And a postponement of the debt can be granted by the government for up to 10 months. This law regulates the possibility of a delay of up to 30 months at an interest rate currently around a little over 8%. And that's why I think it would be necessary if we are already going to take such a measure to even it out or we are going to amend the State Budget Act for 2011 or we are going to accept this possibility that, even now, the way to regulate it through the suspension of the debt of up to 10 months can subsequently be determined by 30 months. Surely this would in some way lead to equality among those who have so far used such opportunities. However, when we talk about the huge part of the tax debt being accumulated, we must also consider the fact that this also means unfair competition in economic operators. Those who regularly pay their commitments and often raise credits in banks to pay among other things and taxes and contributions are certainly not in the same position as those who for months and years do not pay their obligations between both tax and non-taxable obligations to the state. That's why I think we should introduce discipline on the payment of total liabilities. The SDP club proposed on two occasions the possibility to regulate that obligations are paid on time, including tax obligations. And so long as the state tolerates that taxes and contributions are not paid, while it tolerates not paying the wages, and sometimes in time, too, we will have problems so far with inequity and with the collection of taxes and contributions, and then we will not be able to intervene in reducing certain taxes and contributions, which would be normal to ensure that our economic operators are more competitive. We said that we would accept this bill, but it would be good to consider these three amendments that we have proposed, because that would actually mean that in some way we will put in the same position all those who have been able to or have not been able to regulate the payment of their dues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71304	Thank you. At 10.50, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. And we have one replica, Mrs. Agent Tanya Verbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71305	Thank you very much. Comrade Zgrebec, here's your debate to point out the need to discipline the payment of these tax duties. However, I would like to point out one more thing about another kind of non-discipline because here is the minister here and I will point out one problem facing citizens when they are dealing with paying taxes. Namely, the discrepancy between local tax exposures and the central system. In fact, many citizens, I'm talking about the IRS in Umag, and they met with the problem that the tax that was cut up at the local level, the payments they came up with had nothing to do with those cut-off taxes. And then when the warnings came to their attention, when they went to the IRS to ask what was going on. I pay in this particular case, say, rent income tax. Then they said, you know, we don't know which tickets the Zagreb people send. We cut one here, they send other payments. I mean, it's an amazing case where people who pay taxes in this case are faced with such, I'd say shocks by the system. So I ask that a little bit of this together be better brought into line with what already exists in the existing regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71306	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71307	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, the non-payment and indifference in Croatia at the moment is such that it literally blocks economic activity. Every kuna that can be charged is also worth the same gold, and I will try to illustrate it with an example of an entrepreneur who has complained to me one day. He said he had to spin a compensation chain of as many as 8 participants to settle his debt to transport municipal waste for his company. So the 2,000 kuna debt managed to settle in the compensation chain with the help of as many as 8 entrepreneurs. This is the sad truth about Croatian entrepreneurship, devasted and dekinated. I will present some more information that confirms the harsh Croatian economic reality. According to FINA at the end of February, accounts in Croatia were blocked due to the inability to settle the obligations reached by more than 80,000 business entities. In this, 34,000 companies and 46,000 craftsmen. So, every third registered business entity in Croatia is blocked. These business entities employed a total of 63,000 workers, with as many as 45,000 business entities, so 19000 businesses and 26,000 craftsmen not having any employees. So these 63,000 employees only refer to the difference. So 35,000 business entities, not 80,000. The total outstanding debts of all blocked business entities, with the emphasis being placed here and it should always be stressed that this is only about those accounts that have been reported. So, about the reported debts, not all of them. So they totaled $37.6 billion. It is devastating in this statistics that more than 62000 economic operators are 78% of the total number with 32 billion kuna of outstanding debts, which 84% of the total reported amounts are blocked for more than a year. And the worst in this whole story is that nearly 26 thousand economic operators with over 10 billion unpaid debts have been blocked for more than 5 years. And now the Government is proposing this law to reprogramme debts as a special measure of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis. Although the name of the law states that the collection of the tax debt found on 31 December 2010, and caused by precisely the economic crisis, there is nowhere in the legal provisions to determine the age of debts to be reprogrammed. Because if it is the debts caused by the economic crisis, and we know that according to the government's recognition in Croatia since October 2008, only tax debts generated during that period could be entered into the programme, so not older than two and a half years. And from this data of FINA that I was just talking about, it is clear that the total blocked business entities of as many as 39 thousand those whose debts are more than 16 billion kunas, over 3 years old, unfortunately in these data of FINA cannot see how many are older than 2 and a half years old, but there are certainly more. In Article 7 of the Bill's proposal, it is listed that everything must be attached to the debt re-programme, but it does not provide that business entities must also provide evidence that the outstanding tax debt has indeed arisen during the period of the economic crisis, although such evidence is actually very easy to obtain from FINA. It turns out that it will be able to reprogram itself, which means it will settle at a significantly lower rate than the legal rate, so we know that 8.3% of the debts will be settled here and the legal tension is 14%, so those debts that did not result from the economic crisis can also be settled, but they are the consequences of bad management. I will mention a Portuguese proverb that says who pays twice the salary late, and in our Croatian case, the late payout is forgiven, at least partially, but it is worth obviously not paying in time. In this way, the bad entrepreneurs will again be amnested in a kind of way of responsibility, and when I talk about bad entrepreneurs, then I think about not having the number of those who didn't pay their creditors, who didn't pay their workers, who didn't pay the state either, but for the money of all those who didn't buy apartments, and villas, and apartments, and expensive cars, and boats, and traveled the world, and you have afforded all the other aspects of the undeserved, or unfairly deserved luxury. And, of course, none of these entrepreneurs corresponded to their private assets, although such a possibility is stipulated by law, because they transferred the property to their relatives, so it made it inaccessible to state institutions, which they can now literally put on their tails. They were only responding to the level of founding capital, and we know it's symbolic, it's about 20 thousand kuna. I must say, unfortunately, that the failure to settle obligations did not take place without the blessing of the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, and this legal proposal, I must say, and it is a kind of washing of the unclean conscience of the Tax Administration, because it has contributed to the development of a culture of non-payment. For years, net salaries were allowed to be paid without tax and contribution, wages were tolerated below the table, through union accounts, bonus payments, etc. So in Croatia, there was really no lack of idea of passing the law. Also, the Tax Administration did not launch bankruptcy, although by law it was absolutely mandatory to do so. Tax administration, I don't know if you know this information, literally didn't launch a single bankruptcy in Croatia. She didn't do it for a variety of reasons, from clienteleist guesses to keeping social peace. One of the reasons really bizarre was that the state budget did not provide funds for the court’s bankruptcy fee. In the absence of bankruptcy, the Tax Administration actually extended the agony of the companies unable to pay, and it encouraged the expansion of insolvency, and unfortunately allowed the property of the entrepreneurs to not be paid for total growth, theft, so that in most cases the bankruptcy mass, if the bankruptcy started was equal to zero, and then such a company was simply deleted from the court register, and the owner remained intact, the property was robbed. At the moment, there are only a little less than 800 bankruptcys in Croatia, but if the formal reason for the launch of bankruptcy was respected, and that is the inability to pay within 60 days, there would actually be a third of Croatian companies in bankruptcy. 19 thousand companies are virtually dead, and their outstanding debts are crossing 12 billion kuna right now, and the companies have no property or property to launch bankruptcy proceedings, and they will, as I have already said, simply delete themselves from the court register, and their owners will be amnested by responsibility for the huge fiscal disorder they have made in the Croatian economy, and for spilling the economic substance worth eto billion kuna into their private pockets. In conclusion, I will only say that this legislative proposal has been well-lated because if it had been taken earlier, it would not have escalated the outstanding payments, the non-payments in fact in the last two years. It is also a partial measure that will be difficult for itself to obtain some more significant effects, I recall that the Government also used a measure of reprogramming tax debts from 2000 to 2003, but only as one of a series of measures to collect tax debts and solve the problem of indifference, and then the problem was actually very well solved. The only effective step out of the crisis is to increase economic growth, increase production and create jobs. Without it, the state will unfortunately continue to redistribute the newly created value of the few companies, which are still a positive business, but unfortunately it will go very briefly, because companies have indeed exhausted all their internal reserves, and are indeed running out of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71308	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71309	Dear fellow Minister. My colleagues, this is a measure that comes down to what's better than ever, but it's exclusively about the upcoming elections. I'd like to see, if the ministries, and I think, as well as the other parliamentary representatives who are companies that have accumulated tax debts and whose donors were actually in election campaigns. Since so far, the Tax Administration has not tolerated the tax debts of companies that were not, let me say politically similar, but, above all, the Tax Administration has brought them before bankruptcy. But I will open another question here – the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the state of Croatia in the case of Đakovština which went into bankruptcy. We've all talked about stolen grains, etc., of huge credit debts but I'm not interested in these credit duties because the company is in bankruptcy, but I'm also more interested in being mayor of Đakov, but also as a parliamentary representative of 350 workers who have been fired, who have not been paid taxes or contributions and who have no possibility of obtaining all their claims in the bankruptcy process. Why am I looking together with these workers for a meeting with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Ministry of Finance or with the Prime Minister, because the same government had two members of the Supervisory Board, two women who had raised their hands for almost 10 years, received compensation and brought the company in such a state along with the Djakovština Administration. This damaged the unit of local self-government, the city of Đakovo, because it is almost a billion and a half kuna debts and companies that are now being settled in bankruptcy. So here I invite you to find a place, a time, a term for this one working meeting so that 350 people who have been fired in bankruptcy proceedings and who are very difficult to find a job not only in Djakov but also in Croatia, because between 50 and 60 years old, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is similar to that of the Ministry of Agriculture to farmers who had invoiced grain there, from a bankruptcy procedure to find a way to settle their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71310	Okay, thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71311	Yes, it is true that the IRS has been doing this great indifference and this vast amount of outstanding debt, precisely by the fact that it did not run bankruptcy at all in time. If it had been done from a bankruptcy mass that would have been formed, one much larger number of creditors would still be, and of course, that creditors and employees are in businesses, so one large part of those creditors could be calmed down from the bankruptcy mass.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71312	Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the final proposal of the Tax Debt Law through the reprogramme is, I must say at the very beginning that one of the late measures and what is not good and what my predecessors said in previous discussions the Government of the Republic of Croatia was supposed to bring economic recovery measures to mean that I would say in some way collectively, not so selectively because selectively taking measures in any case cannot contribute to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to talk about the data here now because my colleagues were also talking about the number of entrepreneurs in the blockade and the size of... liquidity, but I would remind that such a similar law only far better prepared and far better implemented was brought by the coalition government during 2001. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was the Law on a settlement, i.e. on the collection of the dues rather than the debts paid, and it was indeed a quality law where the state, or the coalition government, managed to settle largely the tax debts that had been accumulated for years before it took over. If this were indeed a serious law, it can be seen from what the state had concluded and contracts with entrepreneurs, it also requested insurance measures. So there were various payment modes, there were even one time, there was actually the possibility of a one-time payment at a discount, they were reprogrammes. So one whole law that in one systematic way actually solved the tax problem. What we have in front of us today is the law of only a few articles, and I would say that the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has not given too much effort to even pass a more quality law. Why is that? Well, look, I have to say that otherwise, there are general tax laws that mean different institutes that sort of regulate the possibility of postponing payments and due tax debts. So now this law in the reprogramme is nothing revolutionary and nothing new. It only extends the tax due to 30 months, and it is also slightly lower interest compared to the existing interest because we know that Article 118 is. The general tax law prescribed the possibility to postpone the payment of the tax debt and that tax debt can be paid once or the payment of the tax debt is postponed for 10 months. This means the measure has been co-existing since the General Tax Law was adopted and is applicable in the Tax Administration. In addition, other than the meaning of the delay in payment institute, there is also the institution of postponement of payment until the end of the administrative dispute. This means those cases where a complaint is initiated against a second-degree solution, i.e. an administrative dispute, and in that case, the taxpayer may also file a request and request that the tax debt be postponed until the end of the administrative dispute. And that third measure, which is also prescribed by the General Tax Law, is a delay in the exercise. Namely, a delay in the execution can be given for 6 months, with all these measures that I have now stated there are, of course, the insurance instruments that the state could ask for and didn't have to. So it was actually an assessment of the Head of the Tax Administration who had reached a solution to this executive payment or a delay in the execution or a delay until the end of the administrative dispute. So what's in front of us today is nothing revolutionary and something that will actually improve the position of Croatian entrepreneurs. However, I would like to look back here at something else, which is that as far as the tax debt is concerned, it's a problem that's not from today. In fact, the IRS, despite the fact that I have to say that the last few years have so far increased the number of employees is not effective in the collection of tax debts. I always wonder why banks so successfully charge their loans both from citizens and entrepreneurs, and why the Tax Administration cannot, at all, charge the debts from the base of taxes, contributions and other public taxes. One part of the problem is that, it's my thinking, which was a large part and the political influence agreed on means with... where it is going to go where it is not going to go, so the oral suspensions were given without a decision by the head of the tax authority on the one hand, and on the other hand, the tax administration’s tax administration itself, as regards the payment procedure for me, is definitely not well solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about that part... being carried out in a tax administration exhibit and part being carried out in the field office. And then when it means that the same case is solved at the level, it's just a waste of time, and eventually it's a waste of time and tax revenues are not charged as they should. I would also very little comment on some of the articles of this law, where Article 2 says, although colleagues have already pointed out this in their debate. Since they now exist as I said the solution to the delay in payment, the solutions to the delay in the implementation and the solution to the postponement of payment until the end of the administrative dispute. It is not clear to me from Article 2 where the tax debt says, so it says "the tax debt within the meaning of this law has reached both the unpaid or unpaid tax debt generated since 31 December 2010 from the basic tax customs duty, contributions and so on". Does this Article 2 also cover those tax debts that have already been paid for? And on the other hand, does this tax debt also include debts that occurred before the economic crisis occurred? It's about looking at it since 2008, it's like the year when the economic crisis occurred, when entrepreneurs came I don't know about the difficulties, but by looking at Article 2 of this bill, there's a way to get through and those who haven't paid a tax at all who knows how many years. And those in Croatia know that there are many. And that's where all those tax dollars are coming from, is there nothing decided here, all those with whom there's no age-old tax-paying rights. Furthermore, as regards the requirement to reprogramme the tax debt, we see that taxpayers must state the reasons for the tax debt. Now, I don't know if you might have thought under that provision that it was working to refer to the debtors who came into debt because of the economic crisis or to think of something else, but in any case, I don't think that provision is really clear. So, what I would say in conclusion, in any case, the SDP's Club of Representatives, or we will support this bill, although we think that this bill is late, that it will not get the effects that the promoter here stated precisely for those reasons why I said the institutes were already covered by the General Tax Law. Here only benefits are given in terms of interest and a longer period of payment of the tax debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71314	Thank you. Corrections. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71315	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. One is that banks do well to collect their claims. My colleagues should know that the IRS does not have a direct instrument for forced payment, but sends a solution to the blocking of the giro account to the payer. So it's a business bank. It's another thing. A colleague of Zgrebec is incorrect as you said, in her debate, she said the 2002 law on outstanding claims with a deadline of importance for a year was to regulate some 23.5 billion dollars, not tax claims. That law only solved a billion kunas, and the IRS did, and you can verify that's official IRS data. Therefore, it is not good when we come out with incorrect information about a good intention of the government that entrepreneurs will surely welcome. All this data can be checked in the IRS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71316	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am correcting an incorrect assumption that there is no idea what period of tax debt it refers to. So it could be before the economic crisis. The MP read Article 2 but in the very name of the law writes the proposal for a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis. Therefore, the exact name says which tax debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71318	Replica Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71319	It's not much easier to have no immunity, and I don't even have party discipline. The fact is that certain media colleagues come out with the lists of 500 of the most beautiful Croats, 500 of the most beautiful Croats, not to be offended by women's sex, so that I'm not going to be this guy again, but another 500 of the richest, 500 of the most influential or thousands. And I'd like the media to announce a thousand companies that are the longest in the Republic of Croatia and to analyze these companies a little bit. Maybe among them is the company that bought that famous BMW, maybe these companies were getting jobs past the competitions, etc. But returning to this law is the only possibility this law is completely late. And since I don't have that party discipline, I propose to the Ministry of Finance and the IRS to find a guarantee that these reprogrammed debts will be able to collect, because until now it wasn't the case, but the IRS has been working exclusively on the principle of political.../...do not shut down this is not cultural. And she charged those who weren't politically alike. I'll take them back to Djakovština. Which is why I insist on this, because even Racan's government has remedied and forgiven tax debts, taxes for contributions, etc. However, this did not help the company to be saved from bankruptcy, as it took the supervisory board into bankruptcy where representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Racan were but also HDZ and Sanader and Mrs Kosor. So I'm asking for the full responsibility of the government for these 350 workers, not to mention those 2,000 200 who were fired in the first wave. Although they too have the right to all possible severances under the law, the government must be guaranteed that it will be paid off. And the entire file, Madam Minister, will be given to you next week when all the workers are able to sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71320	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71321	Thank you very much. Well, you just said what I mentioned in my debate, which is that most of the tax debt that exists in the IRS has not just been charged for the reason that there have been political pressures and agreements with the IRS leaders on the collection of these debts. I'll say for my county, it's Virovitsk-Podravska, I know exactly which companies are owed taxes and contributions for years, do not pay even salaries to workers, and they simply have no solution to postpone payments at all, but there is probably an agreement, not likely but certainly at the policy level that these companies do not go into forced payment. And now I have to replicate to Mr. Schooker, although he gave me a correction to the incorrect allegations, he didn't give me the opportunity to refer to him...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71322	You can't, excuse me, colleagues... My colleagues, you can't replicate now. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71323	I won't, Mr. Vinkovic will. As for the measure...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71324	You can't replicate counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71325	No, I won't, I said I'll just refer, I told Vinkovic. Vinkovic. I just wanted to say that when I said that banks are very effective at paying their incomes, they really are, and the tax administration didn't then manage myself precisely by having such agreements in the tax administration, but it's not just a ban on the availability of funds on the taxpayer's expense, so that's the first measure of enforcement. You have a whole series of enforcement measures carried out in the field offices, but simply in no way these tax debts are charged. And also, as far as the meaning of this law is concerned, there is really no explicity anywhere to which debts are referred to by this reprogramme measure, whether these are debts arising from an economic crisis or debts that occurred in previous periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71326	Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I did not say the most significant consequences of the economic crisis: the fall in economic activity, the increase in unemployment, the increase in liquidity and the non-payment of liabilities, the fall in purchasing power, the fall in personal consumption. All these consequences are interdependent and linked, but not only has the crisis brought consequences, the crisis itself is a consequence. So when some tell her that the crisis didn't come, I say thank God that she came because she was a consequence, and if only a year later she had come, she'd be much more destructive. But why in Croatia the results and consequences of the crisis are more pronounced than the economic crisis itself has caused, because economic policy should be focused on encouraging those activities in which the Republic of Croatia has a competitive advantage but one part of the economic policy is just encouraging imports and those in which the Republic of Croatia has a competitive advantage. As it is not logical that, under favourable conditions, an entrepreneur in Croatia gets a loan to grow bananas because there is no competitive advantage or can be paid or succeeded, so it is not logical that someone gets a more favourable credit for importing apples than for growing apples, for importing peppers rather than for growing peppers. And it is encouraged, one part of the economic policy is precisely aimed at stretching the import sector, right where the competitive advantage in the Croatian economy is, and the economy and the national economy can be effective if economic policy is focused on encouraging those activities where we have competitive advantages. And we have such activities, we have such branches of production, we have such products, but that's why the consequences are stronger because monetary policy has just created such a credit policy that weighs imports and detimises domestic production. That's the main cause. And many people care that this is exactly the kind of politics and praise that rises to the sky and they care because they have an interest in it. Many praise them that the latest measure of firing 6.3 billion kuna is a fantastic measure. Yes, when I said two and a half years ago that the measure had to be taken then it was devastating to say, but then it had to be brought because it was an inequitable banking system, because it was necessary to do so, and today when the banking system has been in liquid and over-reliable for two and a half years now, and on average 6 billion kuna has an excess liquidity banking system, additional discharge of another 6.3 billion kuna is just salting the sea and contributing to a new bank profit, and no contribution to the national economy. It can't be such an economic policy. They boast of instruments, and the results of such instruments are devastating. Well, he can't be a good cook who can't lick his own fingers. Monetary policy should and always be in all effective national economies of national economic policy components and it is very devastating when it flees the sector, and it is approaching to be a component of business policies of business banks. There is the main cause of the economic downturn in the Republic of Croatia. Why unemployment has also increased, because many entrepreneurs have shared jobs and treated workers as a repromary, use and dump what is not used. But workers are the most valuable and most important factor in economic activity, and with this approach to workers, an efficient economy cannot be cultivated. Why the indifference has grown, so because I really have to set aside prominent businessmen, those who regularly pay their obligations, those with whom it is an honor to negotiate, with whom it is pleasant to negotiate and with whom it is pleasant to deal. But there are also those whose non-payments became business style, whose tax ejaculation became business philosophy, and those whose wage default has become a model of good business behavior. That's the kind of guy you need to end up with. That is why I welcome and congratulate the new president of the Croatian Employers' Association on a statement in an interview with one, Mr Ergovic, who told the employers' association we do not need, I thought he told me the bad guys. Of course they don't need to, so let them exclude them from the association and let them remain the HUP, let them be the Croatian Association of Cheaters and they should become the HUUP-Croatian Association of Reputable Employers. Let him finally remove that sick tissue inside himself. The drop in purchasing power will not come when the exchange clause is and the unilateral change in interest rates to already approved loans. The biggest increase in profits is banks precisely to the extent of changing and increasing interest rates to already approved loans that are already a component of business banks and private budgets. And then, of course, it will affect their purchasing power, their consumption, and thus the offer of aggregate, and then demand, and then there's a drop in production. And it's the ones who caused it inside themselves that make the most of the cost. If we just a little evaluate the size of the increase in intellectual services from abroad in the banking sector and in the telecommunications sector, what is the increase and cost of software services, the cost of foreign travel, visits to Broadway and such performances that have nothing to do with business by increasing such costs affecting the indifference of all related persons. And who isn't connected to the banking system? Everyone, we're all addicted to them. When we give them our money, they make money. When we borrow money from them, they earn it again and earn it as much as anywhere in the world as in Croatia. And that also contributed to an increase in liquidity. This law, I hope, will contribute to the fact that, just as the credit policy of business banks cannot relax the position of entrepreneurs, we can bring this measure to relax and bring to a more favourable situation respected entrepreneurs. I believe that they will be helped, and that effective collection will finally end those whose lifestyle is not paid. Imagine a full newspaper the latest prominent entrepreneur in hundreds of millions of kuna revenues, and the lease has not paid not to his business partner from economic activity for years. Not even the church because he had a lease in the church rooms, in the seminary and for seven years he didn't pay. These should be excluded from such a program. I am voting in favour of the law and I hope it will contribute to improving payment and increasing liquidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71328	Thank you. Replications. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71329	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, you said in your discussion two things I could agree with. You said that there are employers and entrepreneurs whose business style has become unable to pay their tax debt to the state and thus finance their business. Unfortunately, there was no support from HDZ in proposing a law that would limit and oblige such employers to pay their commitments within 60 days and thus try to bring them into order. Because very often these employers, and when all their deadlines are over, sometimes 200 days, sometimes more are in a position that gives them that opportunity on the market because they have a weighted share on the market, to call entrepreneurs and put more pressure on them. They say cut my bill, give me an extra rebate to pay you what I was supposed to pay you over half a year ago. Unfortunately, we didn't have HDZ support here, but here I announce that this law will be the first one we will bring when we have a majority in this House. It's another thing. You were talking about the CNB and the release of the mandatory reserve. Well, it's not true that nobody really benefited from it and that it was accidentally done just when the state refinanced the 2001 bond. And in what way? She refinanced a 10-year bond with loans that were on the deadline of 6 months or most in Zagrebačka banka for a year. So, the long-term short-term bond. And who got that interest you're talking about because the total amount was financed from those short-term debts of some over 800m euros. That difference you're talking about will be paid by the state and the profits of the banks will be financed in those year-round states. So 4% of the difference that the CNB has now fired to the banks to place it on the state market has taken advantage of and that 200 million kuna interest which more banks will earn will be paid directly by the state budget. Unfortunately, and in this case, a very non-transparent task. We waited a month to even hear about the conditions with which banks and at what time, and at the expense of Croatian taxpayers will go to profit banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71330	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71331	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, there is a Law on Mandatory Relations that regulates that part of which you have spoken about each other's payments. All of this is in the sphere of behavior within business ethics. But employers, some promote the ethics of business immorality and want to entangle it to be a model of behavior. But there are other examples, and I'm sure the time will come for them to be made public. I'm a convinced optimist, no matter what day today, we don't know who was getting the management loans from the Bank of Commerce, and by law, it was a duty to publish them, so one day we'll know everything. The time will come for those who are in debt to stay in debt, and the money will be transferred abroad. But when you say that this measure of the Croatian National Bank, I didn't say that no one was benefiting. They had business banks benefiting. But if you remember a colleague, Maras, when firing 6.3 billion kuna from the Croatian National Bank's reserve funds, there was a statement to be made, and that decision was taken without the Council of the Croatian National Bank the day before the Council met, that these funds would then be used to lend domestic production. And I've even heard in some comments that the National Bank will pull up the ear of the one who doesn't use it. And where are the instruments to control it. You need to make arrangements before you fire, not the other way around. And that's why this was made in the interest of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71332	Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, here's my apologies. My colleague Maric you said well and well detected that the economic crisis is somewhere in the middle. It is at the same time the cause of this situation when it comes to tax debt, but at the same time it is the consequence. So when we talk about the consequences of the economic crisis that Croatia is in today, it is not only the tax debt, but also the behaviour of the ruling, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to what has been done first in state and also in some private companies. Namely Sanader's government made a casino out of the Ban Courts, it could be called the HDZ Royal Casino where the favorite game was roulette, and it was enough just to spin the wheel, but on that roulette instead of numbers there were the names of state-owned companies. You should've just seen where the ball would stop, and gone... , but it was not the only sin of Sanader's government, but it was a practice to be burned by various private companies, which owed the state a fantastic amount for unpaid taxes and contributions, and it was seen through their fingers in a way that it was enough to participate in the payment of campaigns with hundreds of thousands of kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71334	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71335	And owe 30 or 40 million kuna tax debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71336	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71337	I think here's the vice president of the Parliament who can testify to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71338	Okay. Thank you very much. I wouldn't testify.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71339	You've been yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71340	Mr. Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71341	A participant of such a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71342	Mr. Buric, please, your time for debate is up. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71343	Remember Limex and Miholjko what you did to those workers who were out of a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71344	Mr. Buric!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71345	Because you approved... the owner to finance your campaign. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71346	Please! Please finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71347	In 2007, while at the same time the state owes 40 million kuna taxes. Now 800 people are out of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71348	You're not worth anything to the Rules of Procedure, are you? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71349	Comrade Buric, you have not referred to my debate, I think this is an abuse of the instrument of replica, and I have nothing to replicate on your replica, because of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71350	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that we have entrepreneurs who actually usurp certain laws, don't pay, don't pay, and if they could pay, so when they have funds, they don't take credit for investments, but rather go to private investments in a way that they don't pay their own commitments. But why is that? Why is a violation of the law tolerated? Why is it tolerated that someone doesn't pay taxes for months? Why is it tolerated not to pay the salary, when it is known that taxes and contributions must be paid, and then it is recorded in the tax administration that some entrepreneur is not 2, 3, 5 months, so we had a case and we paid taxes and contributions for two years, or not, so that means he didn't pay the salary often. So why is that tolerated? That's the problem. Not whether entrepreneurs are good guys or bad guys. They need to be removed. Who's got to do it? So whoever is in charge of the state, the state institutions in charge of this, the Tax Administration, which is to record such non-payment in time, does not allow for months to not pay and accumulate obligations. What about our judiciary? Once upon a time, you could charge a payment order through a trade court in a few weeks. Now it's not worth suing your believer at all, because for years you won't, you'll pay court fees or obligations, and for years you won't be able to solve the problem in court. So that's the problem, and that's actually the cause, and what we're talking about is just consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71352	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71353	You asked me, colleague Zgrebec, why. So because of the extremely dominant role in the society of the Croatian Employers' Association, which strongly raises its voice against any phenomenon that threatens their personal interests. And when it comes to something common good and social, which will endanger their interests, where weaknesses are manifested within them, then they shut up and protect them. But I would stress that no one in the Republic of Croatia, nor in any other country in the world has the right to pay no taxes, and that everyone has to make a maximum commitment to pay a tax because the biggest possible discrimination in the financial world is that someone pays a tax, that someone has an obligation, and that someone is easy to cross, and I cannot possibly support doing business with the CDs, to open up the companies of the daughter through which, and that should end, I agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71354	And Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it is clear that through the adoption of this law on the one hand, we are helping businesses, and on the other hand, we should also have certain resources, and on the basis of the debts come into the state register, so in some way we are strengthening liquidity, and the topic of liquidity and indifference is constantly changing in this debate today. One part was commented by my colleague Maras, but I'd be particularly interested in it since it's your profession, which is actually the 5.3 billion kuna that the CNB released nominally for the development of the economy... production means life, is it based on this we have knowledge of part of some new economic financial communications, a series of money, and let's say what was a public idea in the paper so help the Croatian economy first of all production, where there is the role of the CNB, where there is the role of the banks themselves, so that in the end, as they have said, they have largely liquid assets today and they are available to enter cash flows, or at the end of my final question is whether we felt it on interest on such... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the economy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71356	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71357	A fellow Turk's main role and the task of macroeconomic policy is to diagnose problems affecting the aggregate offer and aggregate demand. If this measure is due to the diagnosis of problems in the banking sector, then it is the wrong diagnosis because the banking sector is not inequitable. But I don't think it's a diagnosis at all, it's a measure taken for something else. And when you ask if there were any effects in economic activity in stimulating production, there will be neither, nor will there be instruments to control it. I associate this measure more with pre-election time than with economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71358	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71359	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Ms. Dalic, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will immediately say at the beginning that I will support the adoption of the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt and that it says that it is caused by the economic crisis. I think it is another law in a number of government measures to help the Croatian economy, recover and exit from the crisis on the way to recovery. The purpose of this measure is certainly to facilitate the collection of tax debts and to create conditions for the regular payment of future tax obligations and to ensure liquidity and better financial discipline of entrepreneurs, and therefore, as an instrument of this measure, it is proposed to reprogramme the tax debt under the conditions provided for in this law. The reprogramming of the tax debt therefore has a credit mark which the State as a believer gives to the debtor at an interest rate of an average interest rate for the Treasury records of the Ministry of Finance with a maturity of 364 days, and I think it is well and pointed out that the average reference interest rate on the vault records has been reached 4.1%, reached from 01.01.2011 to 31.03.2011, and that the lowest of the last 10 years since it moved, from 5.44 to even 7.63%. The interest referred to in this Act shall be calculated by applying the method of decursive simple interest account at the end of the accounting period without credit to the principal and this method is otherwise applied when calculating the elements of State aid. This measure can also be considered as a form of State support to entrepreneurship. The minister said that the interest rate is about 8.3% on the payout, and I think it's good to point out that it's a tight interest of 14% to see what this specifically means for entrepreneurs who are going to fall under this tax debt bill measure. The entity to which this law applies is therefore considered to be an entrepreneur, defined by the General Tax Act, so that there is no doubt about which it refers, and yet Article 3(3) of the Law is listed as not applicable, which is therefore financial institutions including credit institutions, credit unions, investment firms, insurance and reinsurance companies, Leasing societies, payment institutions and electronic money institutions. It also defines exactly what tax forms it applies to and to which it does not apply. These are contributions to the pension insurance of the individual and contributions to retirement insurance for age on the basis of individual and capitalised savings. The reprogramming of the tax debt under this law can also be carried out for debt incurred by 31.12.2010 provided that the current tax obligations are regularly met in this year, i.e. they must be met by the date of submission of the reprogramming application. Otherwise, I think that every time we talk about it, it's good to do it all over again because often those who are interested in applying a law of all these discussions don't really know what's important and when they can apply. So I think it's good that they also know that 90 days from the day of entry into force of this law that they can apply. Otherwise, as regards the economic justification of this measure, it is in the fact that it wants to maintain the continuity and sustainability of charging and the state budget, and on the other hand it encourages entrepreneurial activity whose purpose is to manage risks and to deal with the consequences of entrepreneurship decisions taken and, above all, to maintain the liquidity of entrepreneurs. At the same time, this measure makes it easier to collect tax debt for the state, as further collection costs are avoided due to the conduct of the executive procedure, while making it easier for entrepreneurs to address the problem of liquidity which indirectly leads to timely settlement of obligations towards workers and creditors. On the basis of all this, I believe that this law will allow entrepreneurs who have reached tax indifference to get easier, simpler and cheaper exits from the crisis because their debt returns will be allocated to 30 months with significantly lower costs and without the danger of blocking the giro accounts and avoiding the implementation. Here, in order for this measure to be implemented as soon as possible, I support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure because of course the sooner we bring it in, the sooner entrepreneurs will be able to use this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71360	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71361	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, my fellow Members and colleagues. It's a good thing we're discussing this law today and even by an emergency procedure because the real situation in the economy is that something has to be changed, something has to be dealt with urgently. And this solution offered by this legislative proposal will partially improve the situation, at least we hope, and every solution that goes in this direction is welcome, and it is also partial, and this is certainly one of the partial solutions, it is not comprehensive, but it will certainly help solve the current economic crisis. And if we are in a crisis, we are no longer slow about it, but we all know it very well and not only in this assembly, but also citizens, as well as entrepreneurs. It was mentioned here, I think that my colleague Linic was on behalf of the SDP club when he said it would be good if a good assessment of the situation preceded this. Of course it would be good, but we don't need to do it today, and now we don't have to describe the current situation too much, the state we see. We see it now already all in Croatia although until recently it has been said that the situation is good, that Croatia is not in crisis etc. One of the problems why we're in such a difficult crisis right now is that it's late. He's late, first of all, to detect the crisis. Let's just remember it wasn't so long ago, while the government was being treated by the former prime minister, it should never have been said that Croatia was in crisis, it was getting better, and by wanting to improve the situation, I guess I thought it would be. It's known that pushing under the carpet can't solve any problems either. I wish we had understood and accepted first of all those who needed it, those who are in power, that Croatia is in crisis, that we have started to solve problems before. But good, better ever than never. That is why this legislative solution is also good for us to discuss it and we will support it, of course, with some suggestions and some improvements, but it would have been good if it had come much earlier because it would certainly have helped solve the crisis. When some of us before or in general in the public warned professionally that Croatia was in crisis, they were considered a disaster. These are not the catastrophes of those who warned about problems, they are the catastrophes that do not see or want to solve problems. That's why it's never good to make things better than to recognize problems and start solving them. So, we're late with the solutions, we're late for a confession of the crisis. The crisis is not just the result of the global recession and crisis in the world, the minister said something about it. It is true that the global crisis has shed some problems on our economic problems, but we must also clearly and loudly acknowledge that part of our problems, and this good part of our problems, is not only the result of the global economic crisis but also of our subjective problems. And if it wasn't for the global crisis, we'd be in trouble again, probably smaller ones, but we would be. To be late in finding a solution, we see, unfortunately, that we are one of the few countries that is one of the few most slowly recovering economies in Europe. Last year, if I am not mistaken only Croatia and Romania had negative growth rates, all other countries in our environment in Central and Southeast Europe, so those surrounding us had positive growth rates, unfortunately we did not. This means that we are either late in finding a solution or those solutions that the government offers are not always the best and do not give results. We are only expecting a positive growth rate this year. It was here that the unsettled liabilities in the economy were over 36 billion. The truth God does not know exactly how many outstanding obligations under the tax base, according to the tax administration, but no matter how much it is, it is certain that this legal solution will allow this debt to be reduced on one hand... not because of statistics, but rather because we help the economy finally get its breath and start a new development cycle, to come in this way that it will not have to immediately and now give the state to use for new development, for trade capital and to improve their liquidity. Of course, so far, there has been an opportunity to postpone the tax liability by paying but at a much more unfavourable interest, and that is why this legal solution is good, because still from 14th to 8.25 when the interest is cut it is really good aid to the economy. And on the Committee on Finance yesterday, the day before yesterday, when we had it alone and personally supported the amendment of the Committee that goes in that direction that I think it is good, that it is an improvement of this law, that all those entrepreneurs who are in this period to which this law applies, so at the time of the October 2008 crisis, to the day that the profits were paid, and they were obliged to the state on the basis of the tax that this law does not apply to them. It's okay and it's fair. Because first we have to settle our obligations to others, including the state, and then pay off our profits. As the Bible says, "To the Emperor, God of God," I think we should apply that principle here too. So, only those who haven't paid their profits for... new profits that I can use to say the benefits of this law, that they can then pay their tax debt that occurred during that period to be able to extend. So, I support this law in principle, I think it will help solve but with the improvements it needs. One of the things that this law does not solve well enough, which is the problem of those companies, those companies, those entrepreneurs that are in the blockade. Because here it is said in the law in Articles 7, 4 and 5 that this applies not only to those who settled their tax obligations in this year or who paid taxes this year how much tax liabilities they made this year in the first quarter of 2011. However, whoever is in the blockade, and someone third brought him into the blockade, which is not the IRS, could not settle that obligation practically and they cannot use the benefits of this law, and such a company is about 1/3 in the blockade. Therefore, in this respect, they should seek to improve this legal solution, to throw out this part in Article 7 to which this applies so that these companies can also benefit from these payment options of the tax debt. Of course, along with the other improvements that have been discussed here today on behalf of the SDP club, these are constructive suggestions that the tax debt should not be treated until 31.12. last year but by the end of the quarter this year until 31.3. because there is no reason to include those three months. Neither did this three months have some regrettable improvement in the economic situation, and that we do not cover this period with this law, as well as all those who have so far been in some kind of a roundabout payment to the Tax Administration under more favourable conditions that I had just talked about on interest 14%... to allow them to reprogramme that they too have the opportunity to be equal with those who are now going to the rural payout that they also have a marginal payment, an interest of 8.25%. So, I support this law with the proposals for these improvements that I spoke about a little while ago, no matter what he is late, he will certainly help us get out of the crisis, which unfortunately we are still in, and that will help finally, perhaps this year, Croatia notes positive growth rates. If this proposal is also partial in terms of economic policy, some solutions are welcome and I will support it with these improvements that we have talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71362	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71363	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. So I would try to stay at this agenda point for the simple reason that here is only one of the problems that entrepreneurs face as a consequence of the economic crisis. And I'm sure this commendable move and the government's proposal doesn't deserve too much going into political waters because it won't do the entrepreneurs any good if we're going to fight here at this level or that level, and I'm glad that the Social Democratic Party club supported this bill. But I believe that, with this proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, something needs to be said that has been going through the debate all the time today, and I will try to get it through the last 10 years, so even when it was the coalition government and 8 years, in fact 7 and a half years since HDZ was headed by the Croatian state. So, the average charge of the tax administration established in those 10 years was about 96.5% +/- 1% depending on year to year and the logical thing is that the worst charge was in the crisis year of 2010 so what is logical. But when we talk about tax debt, then we also need to pull the parallel with those data from FINA that are constantly going through the debates, which is how much debt there is at this point towards both the state and the mutually long legal person, then we will see that over 66% of that debt is with a manual longer than 360 days. So the problems that date far away and that have far deeper and far more complex consequences than what has been heard here today. Also when we try to see those who have failed to comply with their tax obligations, and those who, according to FINA's data, have also failed to comply with tax obligations, then you will see that among them is the largest number of those who do not have a single employee. And now a real question is being asked, and that is what other ministries need to solve, which needs to be resolved by the High Court of Commerce and answered some questions, first of all to clearly define what this means to be a mutually connected society. Is this definition that we have today just perceiving everything or given the number of people who don't have a single employee, and they've been blocked for many years suggests something else, that when they create a commitment to both entrepreneurs and the state, they simply leave that company there, they open up another company, they move employees and keep working. And if we clearly define obligations and related societies then we can open 100 companies, but in the end, that hundred will have to pay off the first one's obligations because it is evident that there is some connection between these companies and if we succeed, then we will eliminate a large part of the tax debt and also eliminate a large part of the mutual debt among entrepreneurs. And that is why I look forward to when the High Court of Commerce will record all limited liability companies through the OIB, because when it is done, then we will make one leprosy available to all those who will need that information. It'll be in the Central Tax Administration Register and then we'll eliminate all those who like to deal with business and don't like to pay their dues. And it needs to be clear... And that was one of the reasons why it went to a personal identification number. [[You don't understand.]] And look, all the segments in the state administration have done their part of the job, computerized themselves, made records through the OIB, only the High Court of Commerce didn't do it, and what we've been saying all along is that it would be the biggest problem that's garnery. However, when the High Court of Commerce does so, today we will also have a point on social care, without this very difficult to talk about a fair social debate. And one cannot say when we asked for an amendment to the Law on Court Registers, the European Union Directive does not allow it to be put into law that someone cannot open a company if he owes something and we went to an interdepartment, he must make a statement, etc. However, when all of them are registered through the OIB, then we will simply automatically withdraw that information and make sure that, in such a way as to amend the bankruptcy law, where that accelerated bankruptcy, so-called, is accelerated, we will solve a large part of those 24, 25 thousand that are blocked both because of taxes and other non-payments, and they do not have any employees. Because as a company can do business, it can do business if it doesn't have any employees. For a time there were certain tax provisions that such a company could practically not have any material costs and a number of other things, however, this later changed. But I repeat, we have to systematically settle some things and say this is a commendable move by the government because it can give the current effect, right now it can allow many entrepreneurs to participate in entrepreneurship activities in Croatia in which they have not been able to participate until now or could participate if they have received that round-the-clock payment for 10 months. And I think, Madam Minister, that there should be no problem that those who have received this solution, I think, after all, that the law also says that those who have received a pious solution for 10 months that they can practically submit a request, of course, if they meet all the conditions to participate in this process. And I'd like to say one more thing. Look, sometimes for political reasons, we don't even like to say good things like we used FINA's data for months to talk about how terrible indifference is in Croatia, etc., so I thought that today at least one of those who criticized it over the past few years would remember to say that in the number of social persons, business entities up to 60 days, say 31.12.2010. was 5238 and 28.2.2011. 2252, so more than half. And this clearly says that everything the government has done and about increasing the liquidity of state-owned enterprises is today definitely these companies are undermining all their obligations within 60 days. What the minister said was that certain positive shifts were being seen, and so if no one wanted to say that from those who had criticized before, then I'm going to take that exclusive and I'm going to say this. Or let's say that the number of insolvency persons, let's just take 2010, 28.2. the debt was 3765 to 60 days, and 28.2.2011. 2252. So even when we make a comparison with... since 3 months ago this data is more than favourable, and also when we do it relative to the period, the same period last year he had the same positive data. [[You don't understand.]] And this country is enough of negativeism, pessimism, let's say what's good to say is good, so maybe at some point we don't fit politically, but it's good for all of us. So, I support this law and I say maybe I had to say some other things, but I wouldn't go because I don't want to go off the topic because today the debates have gone in different directions, so we should see where there are some money, etc., but once again I support this law and I sincerely hope that entrepreneurs will use it very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71364	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71365	We move on to the Final Bill on a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 751. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the SDP Representatives' Club and the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted by Ivica Mladneo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to make a statement on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget relating to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71366	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71367	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71368	The government does not accept, in the light of the obligations arising from the accounting periods of the reprogramming of the tax debt due and not charged by the entrepreneurs by 31 March 2011, it would lead to irregularities in the payment by the entrepreneurs. The additional reason for the proposal of 31 December 2010 as the date on which the tax debt situation will be established is seen in the fact that at the time of submission of the request, entrepreneurs will also be known indicators for the business period and the financial period for the previous year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71369	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71370	The SDP Club believes that it is still necessary to change the date on 31 March of this year for the reason why the law is passed with April of this year and it would be mathematically, operationally, however far better you want to take all dues by the last month before the law is applied. Therefore, at the time of automatic data processing, at a time when data is not a problem of any availability, the effectiveness of this measure is important. The effectiveness of this measure is that you do not prevent entrepreneurs from accessing this law. An entrepreneur who doesn't pay his commitment for two years certainly hasn't paid his commitment in the last three months. Now we're going to complicate the situation because you're forcing an entrepreneur to find additional funds to settle these three months. Therefore, we put ourselves at risk the effectiveness of this law, the application of this law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71371	Thank you very much. We'll vote on the amendments by raising our hands. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the second same Proposer to Article 2(1)?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71372	The government doesn't accept. Subjects to the application of the law are prescribed in Article 3(1) and (2) of the Law in such a way that the law applies exclusively to the payment of the tax debt of an entrepreneur. Such a formulation of the provision as applicants for the reprogramming of the tax debt does not exclude entrepreneurs who are granted a postponement of payment or payment of debt in meals in accordance with the General Tax Law, which means that in the event of compliance with the conditions for payment of the debt under this law, procedures under the general tax law may be suspended. The subject of the reprogramme under the law is a tax debt from a tax-debted relationship, and this relationship is also maintained in the charge of tax debt under this law, which is prescribed in Article 115 of the general tax law. While the obligations for which the amendment requires... as a result of the debt-religious relationship of entrepreneurs with the users of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71373	Thank you. Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71374	I thank you on behalf of the club for the explanation, which is now clearly said that even the rites are considered eligible and that entrepreneurs will be able to appear with a request under this law. And in that part, I am withdrawing the amendment, but we continue to stay with the amendment proposal, which is the part that's said about beating up the business's debts with the claims of entrepreneurs against the users of the state budget, regardless of what they come in different ways, one by tax law, and the other by law from the debt-religious relationship. We find it unacceptable for taxpayers to owe, on any basis, such enormous indivisibility to entrepreneurs, and that it would be necessary to simply beat debts before a tax debt can be reprogrammed in this way. Well, in that part, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71375	Thank you. So he's retreating in one piece. In this part that doesn't withdraw the vote. Please, who's for this part of the amendment? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I Amendment 3 to Article 7(4) and (5)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71376	The government doesn't accept it either. Explanation as for Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71377	This amendment has been withdrawn because it is related to the first amendment and the second of course. Thank you very much. We've still got the amendment to the HNS, HSU. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71378	The government doesn't accept. The contributions to the pension insurance of individual individuals and the contributions to retirement insurance for age on the basis of individual capitalised savings are excluded from the definition of tax debt, which is charged by the reprogramme, because on the basis of the contribution to the pension insurance of an individual, they constitute a pension right, and determines the insurance course in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act, and in the case of contributions to retirement insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, they are accounts which can only be held by the owners, which are the bonds of the payment of contributions. Since these contributions are not subject to payment under this law, payment of this obligation shall be subject to the provisions of the general tax law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71379	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71380	Dear Secretary of State, it's obvious from reason that you didn't accept our intensities, and she was quite different. It was to ensure, in practice, that this amendment to Article 9 will ensure that the solution to the prolongation of the debt will be abolished unless the entrepreneur pays compulsory pension contributions to the individual, i.e. compulsory contributions to individual capitalised savings, which I agree is money, personal money in the citizens' account. So we just wanted to have a guarantee through the law that it would write in the solution, and that the solution would break if that fact was not respected. I'm sorry you didn't accept that intensities, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71381	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis. Let's please get involved and vote on the law as a whole. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote, 94 votes in favour, one abstention, nothing against, along with part of the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71382	Moving to next point seven. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the return of refugees from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 728. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy Branko Mučnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71383	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is a proposal for a law to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the return of refugees from the Republic of BiH. This Agreement was signed on 11 December 2001 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Parliament ratified it in August 2005. Croatia has not ratified it to date, although it has been applied as such in the section on regulating the issue of two-way refugee returns. The agreement was found at the foreign ministry and during negotiations with the Bosnian-Herzegovina side, it is a release from customs duty for imports of construction material to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the return of VAT by Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was followed by intensive talks between 2009 and 2010 with the help of our embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the biggest problem that is at this point the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy is that it pays double VAT in the Republic of Croatia is the construction material we also get in Bosnia and Herzegovina that our suppliers enter. These are Croatian construction companies. The problem came amid the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina, meanwhile, introduced a single VAT rate. This agreement was sent to an opinion last year, but we could not send it to the Government for the request of the Ministry of Finance for the change in the text of part of the already signed agreement, and, above all, to amend the VAT Act in the Republic of Croatia which entered into force on 1 January 2010. This year we have requested and received a new positive opinion from the Ministry of Finance, in which it is explained that it is an international agreement signed before the adoption of the amendment and that it can be ratified as such. Therefore, ratification of the agreement in this form, signed in 2001, we need to obtain all customs certificates for importing construction material in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to submit a request to Bosnia and Herzegovina for the return of VAT of 17% to imported construction material paid by the ministry in full since 2007. In co-operation and agreement with the Bosnian-Herzegovina side, the ministry will, after ratification of the agreement in its existing form, initiate procedures for making annexes to the new VAT law in the Republic of Croatia and in that part of the preparation, and all that concerns problem-solving at the moment resulting from non-ratification will contribute to one quality solution and to the follow-up of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71384	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71385	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. None of us are likely to say a word against helping people who need to return to their hearths and nothing in question is related to the purpose of such a law confirming the agreement between our government and the government, or the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What it is is a disputed colleague and colleague, and it is a bit saddened that the agreement that we are today confirming is neither less than a full 10 years old, for a full 10 years. The aim of this law is, of course, to free these donations from customs, tax, fees and other duties. For 10 years, so this was lying on someone's desk, in someone's drawer, and it finally saw the light of day. That's certainly not a good message. Next, colleagues and colleagues. We were part of this introduction data had the opportunity to get acquainted with them and read these details a month ago when we discussed the development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad. I don't know if you remember that debate, one deeper material, and just then we saw that most of the help was gone, development aid just in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But now that you compare how much data we have and these numbers that we have on the table today you will see that only 25% of the assistance we give to Bosnia and Herzegovina is help to get refugees back, only 25%. 75% go for other content and other projects. I don't understand. Mr. Shucker's throwing something at me. So, I don't think so. Oh, yeah, there's no such thing as no means. That's right, that would be if that coordination existed, Mr. Schucker, but there's no coordination, obviously there's no such thing. Read the numbers if you want I'll read you two parameters. Take a look at the care of development assistance run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, coordination between the ministry at least that's what we were told a month ago. And here it stands in 2009 the construction material for 435 users was delivered, 579 instructions were made on the rehabilitation of damaged family houses, 327 records were written on the technical checks carried out on the family homes of the users, and delivered personal construction material for 180 unfinished houses in Stoc and Capljina without a deadline, dates, anything. If you read the data we have on the table today, you'll get quite another number. And so the question of our club would be exactly that coordination. We are interested in the fact that the agreement and the confirmation of this agreement now provides for a single interstate council to be formed, that therefore inter-state bodies that will work on this coordination are interested in these levels, i.e. coordination. Who coordinates between individual ministries? We're interested in the name and name. People at the Foreign Ministry, who does, if they do, then it's sad, if you've looked at 520 projects, as far as they're concerned, what are the priorities? That's more than embarrassing, sir. That's embarrassing. Furthermore, we are interested in who is coordinating this very assistance between Croatia on the one hand, and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the other. This assistance, which we are now discussing, at the Federation level and in relation to Republika Srpska. We are interested in whether there is any coordination between our assistance and this donation, that is, the county and the cities that we are providing, precisely because of this coordination, because we claim that there is no return if this is not coordinated. Furthermore, we are also interested in coordination with the international community, because in the agreement we also call on that community, so we are interested in one, the other, the third and fourth levels of coordination, the name and last name we would like to know who is doing this, that we can get more information because this is how we throw millions on paper, yesterday it was 220, excuse 212 million through development aid, today 30, 20 and 39 million in the coming years. We are really interested in who is doing this, what are the criteria and what are the basic objectives and in which areas are wanted to achieve what. We agree, make a house, a man has nowhere to go back because he can't get a job, but it has to be someone's concern, we're interested in who's doing that coordination at all these levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71386	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Branko Martyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I, otherwise, would take a lot more time, but this programme, which is being implemented, is being implemented very transparently and according to the rules adopted, conditions and by Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is co-ordinated by the embassy, where each county has certain commissioners, or on our side where the laws are applied positively. As far as the part is concerned, the budget of this ministry provides for only the allocation of construction material, which is very much under control, since in the previous part of the adoption, after the adoption of consent, engineers determine exactly up to a millimeter related to the regulations, i.e. the related possibility of awarding construction material, such as in Croatia 35 squares for the first person, plus 10 for each of the following. According to this section of the programme, data, i.e. priority, are transparent and can be obtained at any time at the introduction. However, I would like to emphasise only one fact, that what is most important right now is to make a decision today on ratification that is a prerequisite for all of these other things to be agreed on in a much better and better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71388	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71389	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Return of Refugees from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 728. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Return of Refugees from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 96 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71390	And we're going to do another point - - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Reconstruction, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 744 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, development and renewal. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry and Water Economy Branko Mučnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71391	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It is the final proposal of the Law amending the Law to restore, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 6 October 2010 which is responsible for the establishment of a proposal for amendments to and supplementing the law, from administrative areas within the framework of the established section, and whose procedural provisions are in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, this law is in accordance with the Law on Reconstruction with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the "National Journal" 47/2009. It is a matter of short amendments, i.e. the adoption of this law, to the following procedural issues. First, the deadline for adopting a solution to the request for renewal in the first instance. Then a deadline for appeal against a solution adopted in the first degree. It was eight days ago, now it's extending to 15 days. And thirdly, harmonising the concepts of finality and enforcement of the solution, because so far the concept of enforceability has been used. The harmonisation of these provisions will result in unambiguous actions, the introduction of administrative proceedings in the delirious renewal of war-damaged or destroyed material goods, the avoidance of legal uncertainty in conduct, or double reference. The other provisions of the Reconstruction Act relating to the renewal model, and the repair, conditions and criteria for the exercise of rights, as well as the competences in the implementation of the renewal and return programme remain the same. Therefore, the implementation of this law will not result in an increase in expenditure, i.e. expenditure from the state budget. And let me, here's a very short piece of information. So far, the models of reconstruction and repair in the Republic of Croatia have been restored to 148 thousand 280 family houses and apartments, which has provided a return to pre-war residence for about 490 thousand family members and beneficiaries of these rights. The law defined two basic models, reconstruction and repair, and this programme of organised reconstruction of family houses in the fourth to sixth degree of damage, and the model of payment of money support to users of the right to repair, which by means of financial support for the first degree of 5 thousand 500 kuna, for the second stage 15 thousand kuna and for the third stage 22 thousand kuna, organise themselves minor repair damages on their facility. In accordance with the above-mentioned conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71392	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, development and reconstruction? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to participate. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore clear that, as it is said here, it is in the introduction that this Law on Amendments to the Law on Reconstruction is in line with the Law on the General Administrative Procedure, but may not be mentioned again and say a few sentences and on this Law on Reconstruction, which was adopted in March 1996. First of all, to restore the war on damaged and destroyed material goods; first of all, to return the population to those areas, which during the Homeland War were exposed to the devastating effects and consequences of the operation of the great Serbian aggression until the moment of peaceful reintegration was completed. As we know, the law also defined two basic models of reconstruction by war-damaged or destroyed housing. Therefore, above all as a form, a possible form of cash support for the first, second and third stages of damage itself and a programme of organised renewal for categories 4, 5, and the 6th degree of damage carried out by the Ministry itself. In addition to these types, other forms of reconstruction are possible, i.e. it is possible for the owner to recover the own funds invested in repairing or rebuilding the house or to pay cash support in the prescribed amount according to the degree of damage itself. Also, there is a possible substitute for unrenewed family houses or apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, these all of the models that are behind us have been restored, repaired and otherwise put into operation by more than 148 thousand housing units, therefore houses and apartments, and thus it is worth saying that almost half a million people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are allowed to return to their pre-war dwellings. Therefore, after these introductory words on the law itself, this amendment is dared to say a number of technicalities, i.e. the harmonisation of the Law of Reconstruction with the General Administrative Procedure Act, where, according to one of the applicable provisions of Article 17(3), the deadline for the adoption of a solution is 30 days from the submission of the application until it is in Article 101. The General Administrative Procedure Act is prescribed within 30 days in cases of direct resolution, and when it comes to the conduct of the payment procedure, that deadline shall be moved to 60 days and this should have been harmonised. Furthermore, Article 17(5) is prescribed for an appeal within 8 days of the delivery of the day-to-day solution, whereas this is contrary to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for a 15-day period as a time limit for the lodging of an appeal. The Rehabilitation Act also provides for the application of the Law on the General Administrative Procedure of the '91 National Novine' in the process of resolution in the right of renewal, and as the General Administrative Procedure Act ceased to apply in the course of the new Law on General Administrative Procedure and this should have been amended. Moreover, the General Administrative Procedure Act no longer knows the final solution, and this was to be harmonised, thus harmonising the Rehabilitation Act with regard to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, at last these amendments to the Law on Reconstruction and Harmonisation with the current Law on General Administrative Procedure will ensure the uniform arrangement of similar legal institutes. Accordingly, I will support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71394	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us, as proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconstruction, with the final proposal for a law. The Rehabilitation Act was passed on 15 March 1996 in order to restore the war on damaged material goods in order to restore the pre-war population to areas that were exposed during the Homeland War with various actions and consequences of these activities from the beginning of the large Serb aggression to peaceful reintegration. The law defined two basic models of reconstruction by war-damaged or destroyed housing. The first is financial support for repairing the first and second-degree damages and the programme of rebuilding housing facilities of the fourth, fifth and sixth-degrees conducted by the ministry. In addition to these types of renovations, it is possible for the owner to return own funds invested in repairing or rebuilding the house according to the degree of damage. All these used models of renovation and return repaired or renovated as already said by 148 thousand 280 family houses or apartments, allowing about 490 people to return to the areas that were, to war areas. Amendments to the Law on Reconstruction are being made to the applicable Law on General Administrative Procedure. Since the General Administrative Procedure Act is NN/53/91. It has ceased to apply and, by way of derogation from the General Administrative Procedure Act, NN/47/2009. In accordance with Article 170 of the Law on Reconstruction, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, The General Administrative Procedure Act. The General Administrative Procedure Act no longer recognises the final decision, so in that section we are in compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71396	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71397	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. As the State Secretary and colleagues have therefore pointed out, this Law on Reconstruction with the final proposal for the law solves essentially issues for those people who have been expelled and who have been in areas of special state concern and who have lost housing conditions and have suffered serious damages. So, the Rehabilitation Act was passed in '96. and through a number of changes so far, he has largely solved problems and related to the restoration of damaged areas and destroyed material goods in order to restore the population that would live in these areas before Serbian aggression. This applies to those areas that during the Homeland War and the Greater Serbian aggression were exposed to war during the Homeland War and were freed or reintegrated. The law defines 2 basic models of reconstruction damaged or destroyed housing or financial support for damages of 1st, 2nd and 3rd degree, as well as the programme of organised reconstruction of housing facilities 4, 5th and 6th stages of damages carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development now. It is possible to return through this law and the own funds invested in repairing or rebuilding the house or to pay cash support to the degree of damage instead of the organised renewal for the 4th, 5th and 6th degree as well as the replacement of the unrenewed family house and apartment or the allocation of the house and apartment owned by the Republic of Croatia so that all the exiles can be returned and taken care of. In these models of reconstruction and repair in the war damaged or destroyed housing units, as already said, more than 140 thousand family houses and apartments, allowing a return of nearly 490 thousand family members to their former homes and residences. This law harmonizes the Law on Reconstruction with the Law on the General Administrative Procedure of the "National Journal" No 47/2009. a the deadline of 30 days shall be harmonised in the Administrative Procedure Act also for 30 days, and in direct resolution at 60 days from the day of application. The appeal procedure shall also be extended from 8 days to 15 days after the administrative procedure. The Rehabilitation Act also provides for the application of the Administrative Procedure Act in the resolution procedure. New Law on administrative procedure "National Journal" 4/2009. As of 1 January 2010, the abovementioned provision of the Rehabilitation Act was contrary to Article 170. The law on general administrative procedure. Therefore, the amendment of the Law on Reconstruction and Harmonisation with the applicable Law on General Administrative Procedure will ensure the uniform arrangement of similar institutes, and therefore we support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71398	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. I ask the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and the representatives to be in the hall at 15.20, because at 15.30, the President of the European Commission will address the Croatian Parliament, Mr Barroso, and the session after his presentation would continue around 16.15 hours with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Social Welfare. I also ask that MPs and MPs take care of their benches as some have already done well. And another announcement, the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, called a committee meeting tomorrow on Friday, April 8th at 9:00 in Josip Jelacic's hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71399	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Reconstruction, there was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 744. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the motioner's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted, Branko Mucnjak, right? Yes, it is. State Secretary. Here you go. Declar on the amendment of the Legislative Committee relating to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71400	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. It's about nomotechnic work and the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71401	Thank you. This amendment has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Reconstruction. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final proposal for the Law amending the Law on Reconstruction was adopted unanimously by 95 votes, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71402	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. There's a 5 on the agenda. Proposal for a social care law, first reading, P.Z. No. 746. Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Health and Social Care, Labour, Social Partnership, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Health and Social Care Minister Darko Milinovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71403	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It has indeed once again been my privilege to present another one with the already presented and accepted by this Assembly to reform the health system. So today to present another major project to reform social care. I want to say a few words here, that is, based on this law which is in I would say a long preparation somewhere for about five years. I would like to thank all those who have been involved in any way in the preparation of this law, and the most recent team from the Ministry of Health who has been here for two days has worked intensively not to say twenty hours a day. And I use this opportunity to thank a series of institutions, about thirty institutions that have participated in the creation of this law in the closest possible way. Before we move on to the law itself, I would plead and ask or pray that this Assembly actually conduct a discreet discussion in this first reading, which is what social care users themselves commit to. So those to whom this law applies. The law when it went to a public debate, when it was published on the web, and in order to challenge all those who are interested in reading it, to propose certain changes to this draft social care bill, I must say that at that time there were about a hundred proposals that I dare say welcome, which in a certain part have defined better segments of this law, and more than that public debate, I believe that this first reading of the law in this House will once again come up with a prudent debate, in the first reading debate which I am sure will come or the ultimate goal, that this will lead to the ultimate goal, and this is again if it is to make new proposals, proposals that can possibly improve the law in the second reading. And so once again, I would like this debate to be turned into a professional debate, to turn into a debate without low political shocks, to turn into a debate that, whose ultimate goal will once again be good suggestions that the Ministry of Health and Social Care will put into another reading. And I'm almost convinced, no matter what the last few days, there's been information that some are asking for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure. Before I move to the law itself, when you mention it or when we mention social rights in Croatia, then I must tell you that from various levels of social rights in the Republic of Croatia are about 9 billion kuna. And when you ask someone who isn't referred to it how much do you think this applies to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, then I'm convinced of 100 questions 90 and more of them say that it's all about the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. So, for the Ministry of Health and Social Care or for this Social Welfare Act, as regards financial liabilities of these nine billion kunas, it's 2.6 billion kunas or 28% of all levels, from various social rights ministries or 1.76% of the state budget or 0.75% of the gross social product. This law ultimately has to define in fact through an inclusive supplement that I will talk about a little later on all these nine billion kunas in one place, which means that these funds will be used more transparently and that there will be a better system of control of 9 billion kunas that I once again stress go from the level of social rights to various users of services. And through the inclusive yet once again mentioned supplement will be resolved by a special Act on Inclusive Supplement. As far as the law is concerned, first of all, and that characteristic of this law is that it is not as we could read in recent weeks and days there is no cutting of any social rights. This law in its final debate follows all European and world trends, and later I will say a series of documents that have bound us to do so. But the basic feature of this law is once again stressed and I pray that it is heard, that there is no cutting of social rights. Less abuses are due to better control, easier availability of social services, reduced administrative burden on the development of services in the community, the introduction of social planning, more precise definition of cash compensation, and further developments in decentralisation of social care systems. When we talk about the reasons and objectives of adopting this Law on Social Welfare, then I want to tell you and that is that this law has been changed only three times since 2001, so far this law has been amended seven times. And that's why we decided, based on the systematic reform of social care, and many have said that I am not a health minister, but, the minister of social care, but only health care, I think this law is the best way to deny it. At the time of the economic crisis, which has affected the direction of greater efforts to review the strategic approach in the field of social care, the law represents the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with three basic objectives, further targeting monetary and social benefits in the system, ensuring the minimum standard of living of the most vulnerable part of the population, and appropriate meeting the personal and family needs of socially sensitive groups. As I said, a comprehensive and necessary reform of the social care system, and this law defines it, includes reform of the system of cash compensation, reform of the social services system and their financing, and reform of the public social services system. The new Social Care Act also contains new criteria, in support of social integration excluded from the labour market, establishing standards of quality of social services, social planning, selection and improvement of services through licensing procedures, a unique register of social service users and financial support, and we have heard again these days say that the register, as well as the register of disabled persons, does not exist, which is not true. The reform of social care is based on several principles, ensuring and streamlining of funds and allocations according to the fundamental principles of the exercise of rights in the social care system, putting first the social needs of users, social planning, the implementation of monetary benefits by introducing two basics, encouraging employment of persons with disabilities, the shortened procedure for the achievement of social services, the methodology for the establishment of service prices, licensing of service providers, transparency of the public service service service service service service service service system, competition for concessions, social care partnerships, the obligation of professional training, which until then was not the basis of the old law was the case, the introduction of a single database of data on the rights users and the comprehensive supervision of social inspection. Compared to the current law, ladies and gentlemen, the next paper is the main one. With the new Social Care Act, with the already existing principle of subsidiarity, which means that we must exhaust all the possibilities for individuals to be taken care of, let's say so in a way that it is not a user of the social system, so with the already existing principle of subsidiarity, we introduce some new principles, the principle of justice, freedom of choice and accessibility, individualization, inclusion of users in the community, timelyness, respect for human rights and the integrity of users, and prohibitions of discrimination, which sets out the following principles. The principle of justice that we have often mentioned in my mandate, as well as in all the mandates so far. What does the principle of justice mean in the new Law on Social Welfare mean? It means that an individual, who acquires certain social rights better, under quotes, cannot live more easily than one who acquires financial resources through his own work. It was often a stone of confusion or calling in political circles. Therefore, the principle of justice that the beneficiary of social care cannot have, cannot be in a better position than the one which acquires financial resources through his own work. The principle of availability of the choice of services, the principle to be achieved in the shortened procedure. I'll tell you what it's like today. If we have a social care user, or a part of social care, in the system, the user of one part of social services he must pass a series of administrations to get a solution to that. If he wants to benefit or has a right in the welfare system, he does not want to, but has the right to use another social service again, to administer, to wait again for various committees, and based on a solution from these commissions to use a social service that he has the right to do. What are we doing with this law? With this law, an individual enters the system, receives a solution to enter the social care system, and through instructions, as public documents which are also the basis for paying benefits for all its services, and it defines both the type and scope and the price of the service. So it doesn't have to go back to administration, to various committees, it doesn't have to wait a month or two days to get a new solution, so that guideline on a reduced procedure gets the right to use basic social services. The law is systematised in a new way so that monetary assistance and support from social services in special chapters have been separated, which has also not been the case so far. Social planning, funding, maintenance of the public service network and implementation of a public concession tender, and the reform objective of capacity planning should be achieved in accordance with the proposed law through a new network of social care homes, legal and physical persons. The Ministry is in line with the strategy, which we have brought to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the last time, the strategy for the development of the social care system and social plans of the county and the established network, provides concessions for the provision of social services. It is one we must acknowledge, and even in my term, a grey zone, because as it is so far, and as it will define this law, today someone builds a home for the old and powerless, appears with a request in the ministry, so it has been for the past 20 years, the Ministry of Health and Social Care if it has the means to accept that home for the old and the powerless in the network, and if there is not enough resources it refuses. That was the way we've been getting into a network of individual homes for old and powerless. Now, as I said, this job will be able to carry out on the basis of a concession of legal and natural persons, if they meet the conditions laid down by the Law on Social Care and the Law on concessions, and of course these concessions will be won in a public competition. A national council is also established, another new institution, not an administrative but a National Council for the Recognition and Study of Social Problems. The composition of the commission is proposed by the minister, adopted by this House of Commons. The composition is from users and professions. They aim, they have a role to play in monitoring the implementation and social care strategies and monitoring the implementation of this law. The network of public social services shall determine the area of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the number of homes of social care of legal and physical persons carrying out the activities of social care, and the criteria for establishing a public social service network in the Republic of Croatia shall be determined by the social plan in the county. We are also setting up a Social Care Council in the county which is involved in the development of a social plan and monitoring of its implementation. We're going to the field. Social characteristics are not the same in Vukovar-Srijem County or in Istria County. And this particular social care council in the county will be tasked with defining the social needs of certain counties. Two basics shall be established for cash compensation and simplification and the speed of treatment of the unification of rights and the reduction of administration. We have often had criticism from Europe and the world that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined by its unilateral act a fixed quota, i.e. the basis for social benefits. As we have said to separate these two types of social benefits the amount of basics on which the amount of cash compensation, support and material aid is determined is, therefore not more fixed than variable, 15.04% of the established budget base. Which means the government doesn't have that power anymore to change the social base, but rather to the variable, which is the budget base of 15.04%. So the height of the base determines the budget base. What concerns this law, which is that the social service that we all seek to come to, I would say to the right person, speaks and base on the basis that determines the amount of assistance to maintain an even more variable characteristic, which is 22.5% of the monthly amount of relative line of poverty for single households. So, for a single man, we raise that base from the current 500 kuna to 600 kuna. The number of cash fees is actually prescribed in 8 cash fees, and among them is new cash support for disabled people as I mentioned. And it's been the subject of debate for the past 10 years and so on. Inclusive supplement. I'm going to go back to the beginning of this story once again, so given the social rights we in the Republic of Croatia today, in the state budget, are giving out about nine billion kunas. With the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Family, the Ministry of Economy and various other ministries. This inclusive supplement means that we're going to fix it with a special Inclusive Supplement Act, but that we're going to have that 9 billion I'm going to say that in a single pile, which means we're going to be able to go towards the user on purpose, and of course that means better, more systematic control. And that ultimately means rationalising or once again mentioning better definition of those or better if you want ultimately the rights of those who are indeed legally entitled to these social services. The biggest change proposed by maintenance aid recipients is the faster working activation of unemployed users. The measures and activation plan for the labour market shall be introduced for work-affiliated recipients. In the event of non-acceptation of employment offers or appropriate humanitarian work, the person loses a third of the fee and, if the person repeatedly refuses employment, loses the right to help. It's best for example again. If someone is a social service user, receives in one way or another, or any social compensation, there's no reason if he's workable not to respond, I'm saying it, for example. on humanitarian work a day of 2, 3 hours. So there's no reason for anyone who receives social benefits to be unemployed or from any other level, not to be available for 2 hours to a low-sighted person to go to a store with or go to a store with her for 2 hours in the morning and 1 hour in the afternoon. In this way we also want to try or narrow down the gray zone through this law, the grey economy in the least possible way. Because we've often heard stories in public that someone is a social service user of this or that or that or that, and that they're working on black in this or that. So this way, with this humanitarian work, we reduce public good work and, of course, that possibility. In addition, in the event that he or she voluntarily leaves a job or a job which is subject to a subsidy, he or she would not have the right to help within 6 months of the moment of arbitrary leaving his or her job. An asset census is specified or, if you want, better and more clearly, an asset census is defined in a new way. That the value of the property of a single person or family member does not amount to 100 budgetary bases and that the property did not alienate 5 years prior to the application. Now, that's where we spread the rights. So far, the guaranteed living space for the individual was 25 and for people with disabilities was 25 square meters. We raise that guaranteed living space from 25 to 35, and for people with disabilities from almost 100% from 25 to 42. Which would mean in nature the following: The user of social care if he has to say 3 family members have the right to guaranteed living space of 65 square meters, i.e. persons with disabilities have the right to guaranteed residential space of almost 75 square meters. One of the main objectives of reforming the social care system is deinstitutionalisation, i.e. priority provision of services outside the institutional forms of care, will be achieved by introducing a new system of 9 basic social services. First social service, some of them I'll list, actually I'll list it all. First social service – consulting and helping him in the house, professional assistance in the family, early intervention, assistance in involving in education and education programmes, stay, accommodation and professional support in the performance of jobs and employment. The emphasis is further placed on the priority recognition of non-institutional services and the ban on the accommodation of a young child of 7 years in a home for social care. And you could read that the minister, that the ministry, that this law has forgotten persons from 7 to 18 years of age. If that's the case, then the old law has forgotten people from 0 to 18 years of age. Because we said, children up to 7 years old, this law defines itself to be defended, banned, but unless there's a foster family that can be temporarily placed in an institution. But if there are foster families then I ask you all together, is it better for a 1-year-old child to experience his psychophysical development in an institution among thirty children or in a more natural, natural environment of the foster family? What made us say that today? We have 73 children from 0 to 3 years in the institution. I ask myself and you, is it better if these 73 children are raised growing up in a happy foster home or if 73 of them are in an institution? I'm up for the development of foster families which, of course, when the question is asked, and what about children from 7 to 18 to God that we forgot? Well, kids from 7 to 18 will be in institutions. We've done this maybe one more step than Europe and the world where they've defined it by the age of 3, but I have to say that it's forced us to do it in some way, under quotes, the profession that asked us to do it. A methodology of social services prices, a new method of payment and participation of users and other obligors in the maintenance and payment of children's social services, as well as minimum standards of quality of social services, as well as the licensing of social service providers is introduced. Let's go to the field. The accommodation of children in a children's home, I won't count, in one institution costs 8 thousand kuna, in the other, the same child costs 5.3 thousand kuna, in the third institution 2,000 and 300 kuna. So we can ask ourselves a question, the accommodation of children in an institution must be defined by the same price and this law defines it. In the activity of social care, therefore, the current social care centre network is rationalised in relation to the social care constitutions. I heard some day the data unfortunately from the former secretary of state at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to introduce a new administrative burden of 21 centers, 21 social services in the county, ladies and gentlemen on the contrary. We now have such 80 centers. We make 21 centers out of these 80 centers, and the other centers will be branches. Thus, it also says that some have criticised this Law on Social Welfare unfounded or unread by the end of the law. And that's why I once again plead, I ask, I pray that this law is not a motive for political struggle, for political points, that this law be for those who are their users. The new system also introduces licensing as a process of determining the fulfilment of specific conditions and minimum quality standards and also introduces an accreditation process. In order to assess the quality of work of social care institutions and other legal persons who carry out the social care activity on the basis of an assessment of the conformity of their work. In relation to the director and professional worker employed in the social care system, there is an obstacle to employment in the activities of social care for perpetrators of criminal offences and offences, and to ban the conclusion of a life-long, life-restraint contract, which has also been subject to the polemics of these years. Therefore, we prohibit contracts on life support for those working in the welfare system. What's it like today I have to say again. Today I work in social care, take care of the individual there, and make a life support contract with him, and his assets cross over to me. We're putting an end to it with this law. Also the government last week is all what I've been saying will be carried out by experts. I can't and can't mention that last week at the government we passed the Social Activity Act, the Logopedic Activity, the Educational Rehabilitation Activity, the Social Pedagogue Activities. They will have to have permission to work in social care activities. How can a doctor do his job today? There's a lot of doctors here, in a way to get a license from their chambers. How can social workers do their jobs today without a license, without the obligation to make professional progress? Since the adoption of this law and social workers and all those in the system will have to be licensed from their professional chamber. They will thus be trained under the condition that education continues to take care of everything that this law defines. I can see I'm about to end this, and I'm gonna be done with this. I must mention here the status of foster parents, that this status can also be obtained by family members. But I have to do it again... say what it is today. Today, if a parent can't get a parent's status, and if they have, I'm going to tell it to the national grandmother and did, that grandmother and dida can't get parent status. Since 2000, this law has defined that these grandmothers and dides can obtain the status of carers, and so far they have not been able to do so. Not only that, we also have families that have two and more children with developmental difficulties and this law defines and gives new opportunities that another parent can have parent status. We put the law into intergenerational solidarity of staying services, helping older people. Ladies and gentlemen, this may not be possible but certainly in the 30 minutes I've had, 30 minutes as far as you can tell about this law. Once again, I call for a constructive debate. A senior user for a dignified debate, to discuss this law without hitting under the belt, to the first reading that serves in the service of another public debate about it, and I am convinced that this first reading will lead to a series of good proposals that we will consider, which we will appreciate if they go towards improving this law. Finally, I am calling for a constructive debate that will result in good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71404	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, President-in-Office Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's been a lot of discussion. I'll just read it briefly, we gave it to you in writing because our board always has a lot of different opinions and criticism whenever it's the first reading of the law. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed today at the 48th session of the Proposal for a Law on Social Welfare, which was delivered by the Government on 25 March 2011. The Committee considered the proposal of this law as an interested working body. In the discussion, the committee members agreed that it was an extremely important law that should provide the necessary care for the most vulnerable groups of societies that are socially endangered, but also for support and assistance in meeting their basic needs and their inclusion in society. The basic observation is that the proposed Social Care Act does not share the spirit of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, although this international document is called for in the opening section because it does not ensure the expected and announced harmonisation of compensation in a way that promotes integration into the community, the equality of persons with specific needs resulting from the long-term damages of different degrees of intensity and these physical, mental, intellectual or sensory ones that cannot satisfy normally without specific support. It was pointed out that the emphasis was placed on the exercise of the right of financial nature rather than on the active involvement of users in society. Although Article 26 sets out the principle of involving users in the community through extra-institutional forms of care in the proposed law does not show what are the extra-institutional forms of concern, this is before the plan for deinstitutionalisation and transformation of social care homes and other legal persons in the Republic of Croatia was adopted. The draft law should therefore provide that institutional forms of care should only be applied exclusively if the user insists on it and if there is no developed network of extra-institutional services in the local community in which the user lives. This committee has, on several occasions, supported the introduction of a special supplement through proposals of the Law on Supplement to Blindness, whether through discussions at its sessions, to compensate for specific costs that are exposed to persons with disabilities in everyday life, resulting from the nature of their disability. The examination of the proposal for a law of Article 92 introduces also an inclusive supplement in cash and states that the conditions, the area and the way in which the support is to be governed by a specific law, which must not be passed until 2014. However, the opinion is expressed that the proposed law requires the definition of criteria and holders of the assessment of the need to achieve an inclusive additive of that type, the degree of disability intensity placed in the interrelationships of the intended levels. And finally, before we joined the vote, MP Vesna Škulic asked for her opinion to be particularly set aside. It considers that the proposed law should be withdrawn from the procedure given that it is an extremely large number of objections and that it does not comply with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that its provisions do not go in the direction of improving the position of users. And finally, after the debate was held, the committee decided by majority votes, 8 votes for and 2 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal for a law on social care and, of course, that the views, proposals and opinions put forward in the debate on the bill are subject to discussion in the ministry, of course, to the decision when the final draft of the law, means a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71406	Thank you. The Committee on Health and Social Care, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71407	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the entire department of the Ministry. The Committee on Health and Social Care at its 55th session as a parent working body discussed the draft law in the first reading. In its opening statement, the proposaler's representative explained that, in order to implement the comprehensive reform of the social care system, the reform of the system of social services, their financing, as well as the reform of the public social care system were implemented. The proposed law simplifies the existing system of multiple social assistance in terms of a clearer definition of the conditions for a simpler and more effective procedure for the exercise of rights and will help improve the quality of life of socially sensitive persons. The pooling of existing cash payments at 8 cash and support fees and better definition reduces administration, and the separation of money charges from social services and the reduction of the process facilitates access to the rights of users. The proposed law rationalises the existing social care centre network in such a way that one of the existing social care centres becomes the Department of Social Care in the county, which, according to the established criteria, will have regional centres for social care as branches and smaller offices, and for the sake of greater availability of users on the ground. The law defines the work of new construction units in detail. One of the basic objectives of the reform of the social care system is to deinstitutionalise or provide services of extra-institutional forms of social care. A significant improvement will be achieved by introducing a new system of 9 social services, including information, identification and assessment of needs, counselling and assistance, assistance and assistance in the house, professional assistance in the family, patronage, early intervention, etc. As the most important new cash support, an inclusive supplement is introduced for disabled persons in order to create conditions for equating opportunities for inclusion in everyday life. The amount of social support, i.e. cash compensation, shall be linked to the budget base. The basis for supporting singles is tied to the poverty line and increases from 500 to 600 kn. The disability for children with developmental difficulties remains unchanged, while families with two and more children with developmental difficulties allow not only one parent but also another parent to gain the status of carers. The proposed law makes it clearer to define an asset censorship which will be decisive to exercise the right to social assistance. This will enable social assistance to be achieved by persons or families whose total value of assets does not exceed 100 budgetary bases calculated for each year. The proposed law also establishes a National Social Council for the Recognition and Study of Social Problems, and provides and proposes expert opinions in the field of social planning and development of social care focus. The Public Social Services Network sets out the area of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the area of the county needs the number of homes of social care, legal and physical persons carrying out social care activities, and the criteria for establishing a public social service network in the Republic of Croatia are determined by the social plan in the county. The law also introduces the central records of users and social care centres as well as inspection supervision of the entire system. It's final. The law represents a significant improvement in all aspects of providing social care in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusions. First. The proposal for a social care law in the text is adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, any observations of the proposals and opinions expressed in the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71408	Thank you. It is up to the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71409	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, secretaries with co-workers of the ministry. At the 53rd session held on 6 April this year, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Social Care. However, I would not read here everything that the committee's representatives said in their presentation, since the minister, i.e. the Vice-President of the Government, had a very comprehensive presentation on this bill, so I would just remind myself that in a brief discussion, the committee members supported the adoption of this law, and since the debate on this bill is being conducted in two readings in the opinion of the Committee, this will contribute to a quality debate with concrete proposals and remarks. And after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion and to adopt the proposed Law on Social Welfare, normally and to respect those proposals that are to be respected for the second reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71410	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71411	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here after many, many years of announcements, we finally have a proposal for a social care bill. And what I am pleased to hope is that so will the debate, the adoption of this law in the end, will be to see again after the health reform of the euphoric health minister. Last time I remember him, when he presented health reform that he was this euphoric, although I warn him that this is a little harder task than health reform, that social care is arranged with a little different rules, unfortunately bureaucratic but it's about an individual, it's about individual rights, and it needs to be a little bit more careful. What I'm going to ask the Prime Minister for is that once again in his next performance here from the pay phone because I didn't understand something, I have to set it up. So you told Mr. Minister that this one, within the scope of this law, is 2.6 billion, and that after the new law is passed, there will be 9 billion under control and we will have transparent spending. I'm asking you not to give this law such an effect if we step on the ball a little bit, because it's easy to throw billions with it. But I don't think it's good to bring our viewers, our listeners and ourselves into error. It's a big, big amount. So, one more thing where you and I can't possibly get to the same level, and that's the question of public debate. Since the debate on health reform for me is a public debate when it is made public, when it is given to the public. Not on the web, in all cases, all possible means of public information need to be announced and that all are invited by the user, by the profession, etc. And I know that you've been trying lately, and that you've asked for associations of cities to deliver their obviouss to you. I know you asked for professional associates, but you know you had some teams formed five years ago. They were forgotten in the meantime. So, I like to do the job. There's a public debate opening, it's closing. The results are being summed up and the effects of the public debate are such and so are they. That would be one job for me that, where you and I could reach a compromise. As far as this law is concerned, the situation on page four at the beginning of that page says a lot, so I'll quote it. "Because the complexity of the rules governing social care rights also causes a complex process of exercise of rights to affect in particular the users of certain socially sensitive groups whose personal resources, insufficient information, education and other additional difficulties in accessing rights. Due to the lack of an integrated information system, and automatic exchange, control and verification of data, I would add standardisation to a large part of the administrative work by professionals who require a lot of time and make it difficult to work quality professionally with users in the existing system, the beneficiary of the cash compensation is not sufficiently stimulated for active inclusion in solving his needs, and the support of the Centre for Social Care there and lagging behind. So a little quote that says a lot, says that our professionals are busy with administrative affairs, that they're dissatisfied, that they're demoted, that they don't have enough time for quality professional work, but it's not since yesterday. We certainly know that during this government for eight years, and I cannot understand because the Social Care Act was announced in 2004 and 2007 in the signing of the March memorandum. No, no, I'm talking about this government, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are a representative of this government, a second term in continuity. Both as a parliamentary representative and as a vice president. I'm not talking about what I don't know, what I didn't sit here and what I'm not a witness to. So what I'm saying is that the question of why has it been so long? What is further presented and quality in the opening part, there is not too much criticism, there are quality things in the law, but there is no consultation described with the profession, regardless of what you have presented today, I would like to get a law where we are presented with the profession and the results of this consultation in writing, with civil society, there is no consultation process or the results of consultations with the county and cities, as there is no record of whether the proposal for this law has been given to the Green Light of the Economic and Social Council for which we have all heard and a new beginning of the work of the Economic and Social Council has been announced. This is one of the laws in the domain of decision-making of the Economic and Social Council, which is rare, which is not from the domain of their decision-making and opinion on it. What I'm saying is, I'm giving out the opinion of the profession. I'll read one of your opinions. It says this process of decentralisation does not necessarily involve a fiscal dimension, so it raises the question of the possibilities of individual units of regional self-government, and local self-government units to take over the financing of social care activities. Special attention must be paid to the design and management of local social policy, which is legislatively and economically strongly supported by the central state, in particular through the construction of an appropriate fiscal system. On the one hand, the Central State must provide such a legal framework that will ensure a sufficient level of economic security and stability for local units in the implementation of local social programmes and, on the other hand, take account of the uniform development of different local areas. We believe that at this point in our country there is an unfavourable economic situation, and financial restrictions that reduce space for quality social reforms, and there are also developments in the inequalities of certain areas that prevent the formation of a single social policy. What should be said as part of the commendation, plus, is that the law is conceived transparently, well and promisingly looking. I love, myself, and also in the name of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired, every law that initially gives meaning, which explains what the term means, because the law is not written only for lawyers, it is written for users, it is written for a wider circle of those who will be used by that law. And there's a newspaper to be commended in any case, to be worked on. What is contentious, and probably has more to come from the debate, is Article 51, paragraph 5, where we need to separate the ability to work and the professional inability to work, it is a difficult formulation. I think it can be broken into two paragraphs, that all this together sounds better and better, to make it more understandable. In Article 52, it is doubtful whether the promoter meant a full retirement, or early retirement, so he has two categories. It should literally be determined. Article 192 says it is evident that the Department of Social Care at the County level is playing a dominant role, but there are many overlaps in competence with the activities of the family centre. As far as the family centre is concerned, it is a concern whether he now has double jurisdiction, because he is certainly an organisational form of county, so the Department of Social Care of the County, or whether he also has jurisdiction through the Ministry of Defence, who is the founder, who is the founder of these family centres so far, and therefore has been responsible for the work of family centres. We had a double line of management. Whether that line is broken or not, it's not clear enough here. I'm still saying that there are overlapping social services at the county level with family centres and when it comes to education of foster parents and adoptors, they take place in one institution as well as in a supervisory business. They're both in charge of, I think there should be a part of the overlap. Also at the family center, if he stays in charge, I think there's a lack of coordination of activities by national strategies, as the jurisdiction of the family centre, I think it's left out. Further illogicalities are to provide advice for social care, form within 6 months, and develop a social plan within 8 months, before creating a network of public social services where the deadline is 12 months. Furthermore, we have a very problematic situation, in the national home transformation plan where it is foreseen for 7 years for each home to have a maximum of 70 users, it is a very long period, but unfortunately it is too short in view of our options. I have in some way the opinion of the City of Zagreb, which prescribes that Article 219(4), which prescribes that the House of Social Care may have accommodation capacity up to 70 places for adults by location, with a period of adjustment of 7 years from the entry into force of the law, is considered impossible to implement for existing homes for older and powerless persons, since homes in the City of Zagreb on average have cca 300 users per facility, i.e. The total number of users in 11 institutions is 3 550 users. For example, the restructuring of those homes would require accommodation of cca 2 800 users in new locations, i.e. additional 40 facilities should be provided for the current number of users to be located. This kind of restructuring would also be difficult to achieve because of the difficulty of finding the space in which new buildings should be built. And time leaks, I must only have one more indication relating to the proposal of Article 20(2), where it says that the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article which prescribes the content and manner of keeping records and documentation and the manner and time limits for the delivery of the report referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article states that it shall bring the representative body of the regional, regional self-government with the prior consent of the Ministry. Here we propose to bring it to the minister to level the criteria because there is no point in dealing with the representative body of the competent self-government. As long as he's got all those regulations, he can do the same thing with this record rule. We believe and believe that by equating data at the level of the Republic of Croatia data would be more compatible, to a greater extent could be used to evaluate the social care development strategy, it could be more directly used for the necessary reports that follow the implementation of different documents, for example. ... To a greater extent, data collections run by units of local and regional (regional) self-government with collections of other entities carrying out social care activities could be networked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, at the very end, it would be neat that these laws that you have mentioned, Mr. Prime Minister, that they are in parallel with the procedure to take care of them, that they too are discussed before the adoption of this Social Care Act, to see what obligations under those 4 laws that you quoted in your presentation arise for the Republic of Croatia, or for the whole system. And the last thing that's also missing is a national social care strategy. I don't think you mentioned it, and one thing that will permanently remain to me is the dilemma of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, and I hope that if anything else in the private conversation and removes why we in Croatia have health care, that is, health care, and we have concerns about life, or existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71412	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hrelja made a few incorrect allegations, and I noticed one that there was no time when this law was passed with the profession. That's incorrect. And that there was no consulting with the county. And that's incorrect. Over 200 experts, and if I remember correctly, he noticed he was involved in the adoption. You even denied yourself later that the waist said this or that. Furthermore, you said this is a harder job than reforming the health system because this is about an individual as if it's not about an individual in the health system, as if the finger were going to operate on someone else but an individual. That's another thing. But it's also for families and so on. So, and wider. This is a different business. And thirdly, it's good to see the minister in a mood and ambition because if he was going to reform the health system if he'd left without a will, then God knows where we'd be today without a goal. So, you need to determine yourself, colleague Hrelja, you need to determine yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71414	Okay. HDZ representative club, Ms. Representative Sunday Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71415	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, co-workers of pardon, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the new Social Care Act, which represents the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the time of the economic crisis to ensure that monetary benefits and social services in the welfare system ensure the minimum standard of living for the most vulnerable part of the population of socially vulnerable groups. The social care system wants to be arranged. This law is a turning point in social policy, and the focus is on the social needs of users. As Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister said in his name that the latest amendments and additions to the Social Care Act of 2007 improved the position of all groups of users because it prescribed 15 rights and forms of assistance and for each right prescribed different conditions and criteria, so the process of exercising the right was complex and demanding. The current social care centre network numbers 80 centres and 27 branches is rationalized so that one of the existing centres in the county becomes a social care office and will have district centres as branches and smaller offices. The point is that all data are supplied with user consent so that the user will be more satisfied and at the speed and quality of the service provided. At the same time, the user actively participates in solving his needs because he participates in the development of individual plans of his family, and later we will see what different connotations this individual approach has. The complexity of the rules also made it even more difficult to access the rights of users. The difficult environment was also an unintegrated information system, so professional workers also lost a lot of regular working time to administration, and this naturally went to the harm of professional work precisely the one that now directs direct work with users. In principle of fairness, the new law is provided by a person receiving social assistance or by a financial person or by a social service cannot have a better status than another citizen or citizen who has the resources necessary for the necessary means of life and maintenance to obtain his work. In addition, the right and obligation is a working person who receives support for restraints to participate in activities that will socially involve him in the life of the community and encourage him to work. Thus, in the event that the user does not accept employment or refuses to participate in any humanitarian work, he loses 1/3 of that fee at the beginning, and if he does so again, he loses his right to help at all. The unification of the existing payment of 15 rights and aid therefore reduces administration and the separation of cash from 9 basic social services and the reduction of the process facilitates access to the rights of users. They will be better informed of their rights. The extra-institutional forms of care such as the help and him in the house, foster care, organized housing are becoming increasingly important, and the increasing number of service providers are also more likely, which is also logical, the choice of service that seeks to adapt to its needs. Therefore, the new law strongly prevents housing in homes and prohibits the accommodation of children up to 7 years of life, but it also parallels the development of specialised foster care and intensive support services for families in crisis. The new law for the first time introduces an inclusive supplement. After the adoption of the Inclusion Supplement Act, all support will be pooled for persons with disabilities for their full participation in society on an equal footing with others. The unique body of art for all systems will skill out what are the possibilities and abilities of the person who is the expert, not what are the faults of that person. In order to achieve cash compensation, two basics are introduced and the basis for the amount of cash fees other than maintenance aid is 15.04% of the established basis for the calculation of fees and other incomes in Croatia, which means the possibility of working and annual accounting, and the basis for determining support for singles is 22.5% of the monthly amount, the relative line of poverty. So, as we've heard from 500 kn that aid is increasing to 600 kn, or from 100 to 120% of the base so far. Thus, cash compensations not only not only fall but are achieved in accordance with defined principles and will become more just and will be realised by the persons most in need. The law introduces income and property censorship. For the first time, there is a clear indication of the amount of remuneration and the value of which a person may have and receive assistance. This value of the total assets for a family or a single person cannot exceed 100 budgetary bases for the calculation of fees or a vehicle whose value exceeds 7 budgetary bases unless used for the transport of persons with disabilities or family numbers 6 or more members. The new law further includes the continuation of decentralisation and the transfer of powers to the units of the regional self-government for the purpose of the availability of citizens. This further encourages the functioning of NGOs and humanitarian organisations. The specificities of certain areas of life and the needs of users will be better evaluated. The new law regulates social planning. The social public service network and public competition for concessions, the new social welfare network will be achieved by planning capacity in relation to the needs of users. Further decentralisation of the system, the network of public and social services will be carried by units of regional self-government i.e. County, Social Services and the Ministry. The social plans of the county and the established network, which is naturally in line with the Social Care Development Strategy, paves the way for the Ministry to grant concessions for social care services based on public competition. The network sets out for the county the required number of homes, legal and physical persons dealing with social care with which the Ministry or the Institute concludes a contract for the provision of social services. The new category of social planning at the county level is as we have heard advice that respects the number of age and social structures of the population, equal conditions, scope of services, degree of urbanisation, traffic connection, specificity of population, availability in demographically threatened areas, economy and other parameters. At national level, it's a national social council. The new law extends the circle of users into parenting status so it can be the third person. And if there are two or more children in the family with developmental difficulties or persons with parental disability, both parents can acquire. For the first time, the law clearly defines homeless status as a user in the system and obliges local self-government units to address their needs and accommodation in shelters. It should also be said that the first social service and early interventions will prevent the difficulties that arise later in life. Respecting the fact that the first three years of life are crucial to every man. The new law strengthens the control of registered activity, so it tightens fines for violations of laws and sublaws. Conversing with Secretary of State, Dr Anto Zvonimir Golem, who agreed that Article 113(2) should add that obligation to local self-government units in the care of persons or families in crisis situations. I'd be grateful if we could take such a suggestion into consideration. The new law introduces a methodology for the establishment of social services prices, a new way of payment and participation of users and other maintenance obligations, minimum service quality standards or licensing of service providers. What should certainly be welcomed is that directors and professional workers cannot find employment in social care activities if the perpetrators of a criminal offence or offence are the same as they cannot enter into contracts for life or life support. Of course, this refers to a time when they are employed in activities. Finally, it is working on a good project of the ministry, on the systematic implementation of the reform of the social care system, and the objectives are more efficient and cost-effective administration, the rights will not be doubled, and the work of experts will be directed towards the user. Powers are further transferred to units of local regional self-government, as well as deinstitutionalisation and decentralisation, fostering more systematic action and financial support from NGOs, better information on social rights, system information, information integration, which is also very important with other systems and ultimately a fairer distribution of funds to those to whom they belong. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the first reading bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71416	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Ms. Mariana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71417	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Minister with his associates. This draft law covers a large area of social protection and comes into first reading to replace the law passed in 1997 at a time after the war and in other social and social circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia was then. This law regulates the activity of social care, planning and financing of social care, the rights in the social care system, the procedure for achieving them, the users, the content and organisational forms of social care activities, social care professionals, the role of professional chambers, databases and supervision and other issues relevant for the pursuit of social care activities. The social care system is based on the principle of subsidiarity which understands the responsibility of individuals and families for their own social security, and it is the role of the state to help prevent, mitigate and eliminate social threats. The law regulates social care rights in such a way as to facilitate this complex process especially for users of certain socially sensitive groups whose personal resources further make access to rights more difficult. The law places particular emphasis on European Union guidelines on social inclusion. By pooling existing payment on eight rights and assistance, administration is reduced, and the separation of money from social services and the reduction of the process makes it easier for the user to access rights, while improving beyond institutional services and services to prevent institutionalisation achieves faster inclusion of social service users in social life by further measures. After the adoption and entry into force of the ICC law, all support will be pooled for persons with disabilities for their full and effective participation in a company on an equal footing with others. The great importance of social care as a support for a better quality of life for every person in need of community support obliges each country to invest all available potentials in the field of planning, development and management of the social care system in order to provide as effective and quality social care as possible. The law is large, more than 300 articles and certainly with all good intentions there is an opportunity to improve certain parts of the law both in professional and linguistic terms. One more thing is certain, no social care law is perfect at all times and therefore all the newspapers it brings should be carefully considered and, after a certain period, assess good and less good solutions and try to coordinate it with economic and social flows. In addition, we would like to stress at the HSS Club that this draft law brings a new structure to social care institutions that will allow the introduction of new content and organisational forms of social care activities in the network and outside the social care activity network under the conditions of the prescribed law. Social care services are provided in public and private institutions awarded a concession in public competition. In the activities of social care services provide social care institutions, religious communities, associations and other legal and physical persons as a professional activity within the family home, counselling or providing services and care in the home and foster families. The current social care centre network is rationalised instead of the 80 centres and 27 branches so far in a way that one of the existing social care centres becomes the Department of Social Care in the county, which will, according to established criteria, have the area welfare centres as branches and smaller offices for the availability of users. The branch offices will, in accordance with the new organisation of work, as a matter of principle of a single management post, obtain all necessary and available user information with their consent in order to make the user more satisfied with the speed and quality of the service provided. In doing so, it is simplified by prescribing the necessary forms, and the responsibility of the user for a successful outcome is strengthened because it actively participates in solving its needs. The new system introduces licensing as a process for determining compliance with the prescribed conditions and minimum quality standards for the provision of certain types of social care services to social care institutions and other legal persons providing those services. The new law introduces regulation of the status of professions that are necessary in the field of social care and which are responsible for the quality of care and which has not been regulated in a unique manner so far. It now provides horizontal and vertical harmonisation of social care, stresses the need for lifelong education of all professions in this system and ensures a higher level of quality. Finally, this draft law provides for the unification and management of the Central Data Register relating to social care, which will become operational especially when the system is informed. A social inspection system is introduced as measures to ensure the quality of care and rational use of the system. The National Social Council is also being introduced as an advisory body, for which the HSS proposes to be elected on the basis of a public tender from ethically competent people entirely independent of day-to-day policy. In addition to all the above, there is a clear need to further improve or amend this bill in the opinion of us from HSS, as well as the professional public as for example the equalisation of foster families and communities such as SOS children's villages in which the child lives in conditions such as the family home because children's villages are an adequate and high quality substitute for a natural family. The Director of Social Care must be a person with a prescribed basic profession such as a graduate or postgraduate study of social work, i.e. a related social direction, which, after the term of office of director, has its place of work in the system which is not so regulated today. The proposed standard of 70-bed beds in homes should be considered in view of the current state of 300-400 beds and the age of users. It is necessary to allow the right of users to choose their home. Before decentralisation should introduce order in all social benefits, prepare the register and obtain a financial basis for the law, and then submit it to the regional level. In accordance with the above, the HSS will forward the comments and suggestions to the individual articles of this draft law to the applicant as well as the observations provided by the expert and interested public. This law is very important for the entire community and it points to the care of the state and local communities for those who need any form of social care, and hopes that the proposals for improvement will find a place in the text that will be prepared for another reading. At the HSS Club, we will support this law in our first reading with the fact that we will therefore give all the remarks we have and the remarks we have received from the professional interested public to the promoter for consideration and reconciliation. In fact, it is of great importance to us that this law is truly well - prepared. Because social care is also important because the degree of civilization of a society is measured by its relationship with its most vulnerable members, children, older people, people with disabilities, the sick, those who are too often on the very edges of society that affect social exclusion. Social exclusion leads to the violation or failure of the rights of persons affected by it, and is considered to be one of the most significant problems of the modern era as it leads to a decrease in the productivity of society as a whole. Poverty is also the cause and effect of social exclusion, which occurs mainly because of discrimination on some basis. The Republic of Croatia is a social state, a state that cares about the well-being of all its citizens and therefore seeks to ensure a minimum of life for all members of society. The economic crisis has led many citizens to face poverty. But it must not be allowed to hit the most vulnerable ones. We want to believe that even in a difficult situation for everyone else, solidarity will not go away, that strength and will will be found to help those who, without this help, cannot. In order for a country to function in a balanced manner, good social relations are crucial to society, as society is built from individuals and groups towards the top of social institutions. This plays a major role in social cohesion, which implies the ability of society to provide welfare for all its members. As people, we're headed for each other. We're all born helpless. Through the experience of the disease, we know how dependent we are on the help of others, and age is also an inevitable cell on our journey of life. All of us go through periods of life when we need the help of others and the time when we can unselfishly provide this help to those in need. That mutual solidarity makes us better people. That's not just law enough. That's why it's important to be human first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71418	Thank you. One correction. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just want to, I've heard twice that in agreement with the user and his consent, so he's staying somewhere whether he's family, institution, etc. Unfortunately, that the minister was a few days ago at the First Conference alone. Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what I'm fixing. [[But you have some sort of correction of an incorrect quote that.../]] Therefore, those with intellectual difficulties under Article 12 cannot decide where they will be located and cannot represent themselves. So I'm saying that you were present at that conference then maybe you'd know what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71420	But a good colleague isn't, you're commenting. It's not. Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that the debate is going exactly in the right direction, three or four clubs that were. And I think this is one level that we have to keep in this House and hang on to everything I've said. Let me just answer some questions here. Mr. Hrelja, I'm not euphoric. I'm always happy to come to this House, and in the end you have to understand not euphoric, but pleasure when you pass a great law like this and when you represent it in this House of Commons. And my performance is always like that, not euphoric, but with the strength of the argument, so that's what it looks like. As for the public debate, we can't agree on that. Of course, I'll tell you why we can't agree. You're saying it wasn't a real public debate. I say it is. 15 days was the law on the web. We called on everyone to look at that law, to make their remarks. As I said, a great deal of these remarks have been accepted. So they conducted their remarks or discussions on this law along with the natural ministries of the Ombudsman for children, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the coalition of associations in health care, the Association of persons with disabilities of Croatia, the Croatian Association of Deafly Blind "Dodir", the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf City of Zagreb, the Educational and Rehabilitation Faculty of the University of Zagreb, the Croatian Association for Early Intervention in Childhood, directors and head of branches, the Croatian Association of Employers and Independent Trade Unions. At that time, the GSV was not yet formed at the time of the adoption of this law. The Croatian Federation of Blind and Community County. And all the suggestions are almost not to say everything, but over 90% of these proposals have been accepted. The public debate was further attended by Zorislav Bobush, president of the Association of Persons with Disabilities of Croatia. Marica Mirić, president of the Association of Distrophysicists Croatia. Danica Eshk President of the Union of European Multiple Sclerosis Croatian. Lek Sokola Executive Director of the Croatian Association of Persons with Disabilities. Ana Kalina president of the Civil Disabilities Alliance of Croatia. I have to read everything so I don't skip someone. Mirjana Jurisha Executive Director of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf City of Zagreb. Dubravka Citnić President of the Croatian Federation of Society... Marija Markovanovic, a professional associate of the Croatian Association of Cerebral and Children's Paralysion Association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mirjana Jakovce president of the Croatian Association for People with Mental Retardation. Mira Katalenić president of the Croatian Association for the Education of Guide Dogs and Mobility. Jozefina Kranjčec President of the Croatian Association of Physical Disabilities. Janko Ervik Two-member of the Croatian Association of Couples and Tetraplegics. Dennis Marion Alliance of Young and Student Associations with Disabilities and others. So this tells the contrary that there was no broad, and in particular professional public debates was neither disbanded by the most extensive group. The largest experts in the area of social policy poverty, Zoran Sucur, Sinisa Zrinsčak, Predrag Beaković, participated in our most important group in lawmaking. Faculty of Law Department for Labour and Social Law. It's a social study center. Educational Rehabilitation College. Croatian Association of Social Workers. So, let's not keep counting. These are all those who gave opinions and whose opinions over 90% of the cases have been respected. As far as the inclusive supplement is concerned. No, I said that as far as this law is concerned, so in the domain of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare somewhere around 2.6 billion kuna, and all the social rights at the level here are the Ministry of Justice, it's accommodation in the institution by court's decision. Or free legal aid. And it's kind of social rights. So the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, personal assistant, personal disability, supplementary insurance policy, social rights, disability pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, health care for asylum seekers. So these are all some social rights from different areas, and all these total social rights at the annual level are about 9 billion, and out of these 9 billion social care laws defines 2.6 billion kunas. What the city of Zagreb has given you, I am sorry that it has not given us an opinion. We sent the preamble of this law to the city of Zagreb at the 6th month of last year. Watch your six months last year. No answer. No suggestions. No evidence of this law. So that is one proof that in this case the city of Zagreb did not react when it was due. As for the centers, or homes for the elderly and the powerless. It's against all sorts of conventions, because we're going for these institutionalizations. This means that those who have an accommodation capacity of over 70 people today, they have 7 years to adapt, and we are developing services in the community, so through those 7 years they must come to the capacity of 70 people, and that is how the strategy for reforming the social compensation from April a common memorandum on social inclusion of the project to develop social care, a new strategy of the Council of Europe's social cohesion action plan, a national plan for activities for children's rights and interests, etc., etc., and many European conventions that actually prevent us from developing systems with more than 70 users since the adoption of this law. Once again I express my satisfaction, I am truly euphoric because I am satisfied with this debate that is being held in the Croatian Parliament. So I can actually say that even the first proposals from the HSS club, as far as SOS children's village is concerned, in this expert working group of the ministry have come to an understanding, and we are already looking for opportunities how this good proposal, we immediately warned the minister this is a good proposal to put these proposals into a new law to be in the second reading. Here's the thing, that's why I might be a little euphoric because the debate is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71422	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71423	Well, Mr. Minister, I'm still standing by my claim, so I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the public debate was good enough, and I'm going to explain that to the next one. When you personally held public debates on health care, you did at least 20 public stands in the counties and large cities of Croatia. This one wasn't here. So it is a fundamental argument that the public debate on this law has not been properly implemented. Thank you. ... He set the standard. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71424	SDP representative club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71425	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Ministry. So I have to say in the beginning that Mr. Hrelja is absolutely right, and he's telling the truth, so the fact is that the task force has been disbanded, the fact that there has been no expert or public debate here, that this has been broken over the knee. It is also a fact that what Mr. Minister here said was that there was an expert task force. Yes, there was. There were also one six, seven bill proposals to this, all versions were three spears better and better than this last one. If I were a minister, I'd wonder who planted me in the ministry, one such bad law, such a bad law, which will indeed destroy in 327 articles and this little social concern that we have left. Why? Because this law does not solve the problems that the welfare system has, and which citizens have to ask for help from the welfare system. First of all, here instead of helping people in centres who really have growing user pressure, because they barely patch up the end, because they are increasingly less able to be good and quality parents and a number of other problems our citizens have for their families or as individuals, so there is growing pressure on welfare centres, and these centres instead of being helped in one professional sense, in terms of professional teaming, we with, or the minister with this law introduces a new bureaucracy. It doesn't solve what the real problem is, which is to help people in welfare centers. The people in the centres are overloaded, they're overloaded by administrative affairs, they're badly teamed up, people are missing in the centres, for example, I'm going to tell you that only in Zagreb's welfare centres is missing about 80 professional employees, and in 5 Slavonian counties there are about 70 employees missing in welfare centres. It's not administrative workers who are missing, it's people from the profession, people who can and should help our families the moment they need to knock on the door of the welfare center. We are now people in the centres, unfortunately, because of the large number of obligations and tasks they have under the law, and because of the poor system that has really been unrealized, we now have a situation to have frustrated social care workers, and we have dissatisfied users who come to the welfare center. Unfortunately, there's no good control in this law. There are people in Croatia who live very well and who have no basis for receiving social care but are receiving it. Those who are skilled in cumulation are at several levels, at local level, at national level, at various levels. And you have another category of people, which many people don't want to see, and they don't want to know about it. That's what they're called. disfellowshipped people, invisible people, people who have no social assistance, no lack of social assistance, because they live in some places where the employees of the center of social care didn't set foot in homes where there's no home number, no road, no road as it comes to them, but these same people, unfortunately, don't even know they have the right to have funds downtown. My question in this cumulation is the right where the money received from the European Union for the information of this system, which would definitely be the only one to solve or in the most part solve the problem of cumulation of rights and introduce order into the social compensation system. And the second why and what does JMBG serve first and then the OIB? When we can't actually control anything in this country, we can't control who's receiving, who's making money, who's got all the property. So, a complete mess where those who are skilled use that system for themselves and live much better than those who get up at 7:00 in the morning and come back at 5:00 in the morning. Unfortunately, this law as written will not solve the problem again. When it comes to deinstitutionalisation and child accommodation, I will say that I am absolutely prone to it, and that is the position of the SDP club that simply deinstitutionalisation is a much better form of child accommodation than the homes of social care and institutions. But it's one thing to have a desire to carry out deinstitutionalization, and the other is really what we have. We've had less and less foster families in the last two or three years. We also have entire counties where there are no foster parents. You have almost all of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska where you may have one or two foster parents or none. So I'm asking you now, if you pass this law saying that children from the first year to the seventh year won't be staying in social care homes and that within six months you have to find a foster family, I'm asking you how you'll get a foster family, for example, within six months. In these three counties or are you going to send that child to Vrbovecka Dubrava? On the other side of Croatia where there is no possibility of communication with its basic family, which is extremely important. It is very irresponsible, therefore, to make such a provision if not all pre-opulations have been made before, to really expand foster care, to get a much larger number of people who will be foster parents, that this foster care is not only licensed but that foster care specializes because not all children are the same, and not every child needs the same. There are children who have certain developmental difficulties, there are children who are highly traumatized. They may need other education for foster parents than they need for other children. Thus, this type of specialization that also required foster education and even work to get a larger number of foster families was simply not made. Precincts aren't made for this and that's why this can only be a dead letter on paper or what's worse can be harmful if someone in the center is holding on to this, and according to what I hear, they say that there's a lot of pressure from employees in the ministry that children don't get separated from their families because they don't need to put children in their homes. This means that children will then remain in their families, suffer the violence of their violent fathers, mothers who know who they are, will suffer sexual abuse, will suffer anything they should not suffer because someone has decided to whale into deinstitutionalization that has no real basis and preparation in Croatia. So, first things had to be done for foster care, and then they had to go into this very restrictive provision. Secondly, I think that the needs of a child are exactly the same regardless of whether he, whether that child is located in a home of social care or in a foster family. I'm afraid that's not the case right now. Unique standards should be introduced to know the needs of a child, the needs of an elderly or powerless person, the needs of a person with certain mental disorders. Because you now have a situation to, for example. in homes, so private homes that provide people with certain mental disorders to get 2 thousand kuna or 3 per user, and in homes where the owner of the state is about 7,000 kuna. I think these people's needs are equal no matter where they were placed. Therefore, people need to introduce some unique standards because the needs are completely equal regardless of where children, older ones or these persons are located. And the question of homes is therefore for older and powerless or homes for people with mental disorders where you say, for example, it reduces to 70 users per home. You now know that you have and that you have given in this network of social services to be homes and up to 200 people. So the question now is that all these people who are dealing with it, first of all, what will happen to the difference between their protégés that are then placed there, which will happen to a number of employees who are located in those institutions. So this transition to concessions is also afraid of something behind which there is a questionable matter instead of introducing order. At the moment in Croatia, a key problem is that there is no systematic and quality control over the accommodation of all foster or private institutions. There's no quality surveillance and it's one of the very big problems. Because in practice you have different situations so that only one good and quality surveillance can ensure that we have quality care for either children or adults. And there's something else you're going to have to deal with, Minister, and that's something that people in foster care have said to me on several occasions, and I have to say it's really a shame. Corruption has reached the lowest levels of those poor 2 thousand kunas. Some people, therefore, because of the number of protégés who decide to be housed by some families give them solutions on the accommodation of the protégé, but in return they take a certain fee. And you have to deal with it. That's the surveillance I'm talking about. That's it. I'm sorry, ma'am. She said it was here. She said she said it, so a lot of people went to Remetinec, some of them said it in Salzburg. It's my responsibility to say what I know here, and it's the minister's responsibility to check everything I said here because he has mechanisms. And this was my civic responsibility and responsibility as the parliamentary representative that the citizens here are paying. I'd like to say I'm sorry there's actually no decentralisation here. It's something that goes through government documents and government programs on several occasions and the decentralisation is constantly being delayed, and it would really be good if you had actually accepted one of the first versions of the law in which that decentralisation was very seriously prepared. There was a proposal to lower them to the local level, so social care homes, welfare centres, family centres, and that the only thing I didn't see was whether funds would go down. That's what's important. It is easy to lower obligations but there is also a need for local self-government to lower financial resources so that they can do so. It is much better to go to decentralisation, which is why people in their cities and municipalities best know how to plan social needs, best to see the social needs of their citizens. The state, unfortunately from this level of central much harder and much worse, can detect and see the needs of citizens. I am therefore sorry that you have delayed that decentralisation for the period from 2012 to 2016. There is neither this social pension for citizens of older age that you had as a pre-election promise and which was an integral part of your government's programme and you gave it up. It's the 2013 deadline. I'm sorry you didn't also do some things that you should have introduced a little bit more order in foster care, because that's for example. A good register of foster parents that we know what we need, what we have, and what we can handle. You didn't even make the adoption register. There are still significant things in place as well. It would be much better if those children who are located or most of the children who are housed in foster care went into adoption, to get a good, quality family, not to choose foster care between adoption and foster care. Among these two, it is much more quality for children to have a family and to go into the family and be adopted than to spend their whole lives in foster care. Because you know in social care homes there's child care after their 18th year, there's housing communities. However, when children are 18 years old in foster care, they generally go under clear skies. And those who feed those children to 18 years of age as foster parents are very much on the road, in principle, keeping them with them and looking for a roof over their heads that doesn't care about those individuals who really worked hard to take care of those children all those years, but it's the job of the state and the state has to do it. And in the end, I would just like to say, unfortunately, all of what we saw here today was in terms of reforming what there is here, and most of what isn't almost 5 years ago, and this is a law that is bad, and all of what you've been saying in some segments of Mr. Minister isn't what the law says, but you've been doing it orally here because you've received it as observations in the last ten days of the association. And one part of the strategy that should have been adopted here before this law was passed. We hope that by the second reading you will actually withdraw this law, start writing it from the beginning. The best thing would be by the principle of those first versions of the law you had, which you rejected for reasons only you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71426	Thank you. At 17.52, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First female representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71427	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Opačić has brought forth a series of incorrect allegations here, and I don't have time to correct it all. In the end, I just got the impression that she hadn't read this law and that we're not talking about the same bill. What I am correcting is this, and I quote, "this law will destroy what little good we have in social care." You know that's not true. This bill does not reduce any rights, so there is no cutting of social rights. The budget base remains 500 kn but the support for supporting the male increases by 120% from the base and will increase from 500 to 600 kn. It is not true that there is an increase in administration, that if you read the bill, you would see that the reorganisation of professions and professionals will no longer be involved in the administration and calculation of material rights. But it's your right to have what you've said speak more about you than the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71428	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mrs. Opacic says I also have to correct the allegations that my colleague Susana has corrected. So this law will destroy what little social care we have left. On the contrary, Opačić, because this is actually going to repeat the good project of the ministry again, it is about the fact that it seems to be reforming in the system of cash compensation as well as in the social services system. Also in the public network. Users will be at the centre of attention, easier to exercise their rights. Also, the system's information is already complete, as we have information from the resolution ministry. Also an informational connection but I will correct another one of your incorrect allegations, when you say and, of course, the data on foster families in the county area, so I will tell you that the district of Sibenik-Kninska County is in the headquarters of the future social care institution, the current Centre in the town of Sibenik has about 22 foster families, but these are not only specialised but also related families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71430	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague has made several incorrect allegations that my colleagues have corrected, but I'm going to refer to one that stuck to my ear, which is that the ministry isn't helping social care centers. That's not true. The ministry is very helpful for me to personally testify that in my county there are three centres for social care spatially and in other ways equipped with qualified professionals and people full of enthusiasm. Not frustrated at all, I witness it every day because I work with them. I live social care and you speak politically of natural apriors from the position of the opposition in such a way that you do not accept. Furthermore, you said some of the shortcomings that exist. And I get the impression that you haven't read it because it simply states in the law the principle of availability and choice of services very clearly that anyone can also acquire information and the information system in this part can help and certainly improve social care. And you said other moments that a little social care would be destroyed, and in the budget, social care funds were not reduced this year, either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71432	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I appreciate my fellow Members and colleagues who corrected the incorrect allegations, but I don't think they've been corrected most importantly. So, a colleague said that this law would continue to be abused even sexually by children who suffer domestic violence. And it is this law that resolves this issue in a way that by entering a social worker or by working out a child-removing institute, practically such a family and by allowing a judicial solution to the exclusion of a child from such a family. So there's no talking about it. On the other hand, you said a few words about disfellowshipped and invisible people, and you didn't say a word about an inclusive supplement that actually solves these issues of invisible and all other groups of unequal ones. Yeah, that inclusive supplement is really a revolutionary thing in this law. Then you were talking about... employees, dissatisfied users. [[You don't understand.]] If that's the case, then it's the best law to pass this law. And in the end, I think it's your lucky that this law goes into the afternoon procedure so no one sees this because you would indeed suffer great political damage because it's obvious that you've simply decided politically to be against this law, against everything that it brings and what it changes, which is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71434	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71435	And I don't understand that you're on behalf of the club... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71436	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I was about to tell Mrs. Opačić that if she had taken the state's graduation today, she wouldn't have gone through it because she doesn't read with understanding or hastyness. Most likely one and the other when it can claim exactly that children are left at all costs in families, what counterpart Bagaric said. I will instruct you to open up the site of your colleague Opačić 55 and read these articles from 140, 142, and then you will see in which cases and when it is done. A little more cooperation, a little less badness.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71438	Peace and good. Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71439	Here 10 minutes ago, I said thank you for the professional, correct debate without the political implications of this great law, and I can now say that I thank you for this debate so far. My colleagues Opačić, the Honorable Parliamentarian, you are responsible. Look at your argument, a very dangerous argument, I've heard that the ministry is pressured to keep the abused children in the family. If you didn't report it to the DORH, you're taking part in that pressure, I'm telling you in public. If you didn't report it to the DORH, you're involved in that pressure. The workers receive 2,000 kuna each to stretch some families. If you didn't report it to the DORH, you're in on it. If I knew that not to report it to the DORH, I would have reported it to everyone, I would have come to Ban Jelačić Square and spoken to Marko Markovic, Marko Markovic is in corruption. The argument I heard was a similar argument that I said I heard you were doing it. The argument I've heard of these disqualifications is scandalous if you didn't report it to the DORH. If you have reported this to the DORH I apologize to you in front of the Croatian Parliament, if you have reported it and you have to report it to the DORH, I apologize to you. Now he says the following, I agree, he says he doesn't actually come to people who actually receive social care from people who don't deserve it. So why are we going to change the law, to stop it. He says he doesn't come to people who don't have home addresses. Why are we forming an alliance for social care, why we're doing deinstitutionalization, to get to these people because by virtue of this law it's hard or how you are, I agree with you as you said maybe we don't get to those people that we need to get to. What you can see is, of course, we're moving to politics now, that you haven't read the law says there's no foster parents, there's no foster home register. He's got a foster home, and he's got a foster home register. And now I've checked again, those 73 kids we talked about now can go to foster homes because we have these capacities, and I guess you've heard that we're also preparing the Special Household Act, so you said we don't have that, and we have that law. So you said another very, very dangerous thesis, the distinguished representative Bagaric said about it. So, according to this law, if children are suspected of being abused in any way in one family, then we report it and then we wait for the judiciary to solve this problem and it's been waiting months and months. And it means you haven't read the law because in this law it says when there's a doubt we're taking the child away right now and then we wait for a year for the court to decide. Don't play with these important things. For users of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia, this government, as the Prime Minister said, will not give up a millimeter in the election year to make difficult decisions, and I agree that the Law on Social Care is not a difficult law, but very tangible, but we are not afraid and we are not afraid to regulate this system, and in particular this law that will cause many debates. Since you've already started this debate, then in your time, according to this Social Security Act, the state budget has allocated a billion and 600, and now 2 billion and 600, so for a billion kuna more. But look at the best comment. You had prepared ministers to discuss the law and then you changed it because you accepted suggestions after a public hearing. Imagine, we accepted and I admit this guilt that we accepted and that my debate was based on about a hundred remarks that we accepted most of the time. And imagine now the argument, that last minute you were changing something because I guess I was underlining it because, beware, you accepted the comments. Yes, and we will accept your remarks no matter where they come from if they say that this law will guarantee that this law in any segment will be better. But I'm asking you one more time, let's not politicize this law, let's not, let's not, I came forward on purpose before you suggesting what a debate would be, but let's not make an argument I've heard. If I heard, then report it. These are very, very, very dangerous challenges to pressure children to stay, abused children to stay in such families or to get 2,000 kuna employees. I'll say here, I'm convinced and proud of employees in social care, to the great majority. Of course there can be those who do some things that are broken by the laws, but I am proud of the social workers who are large, I am convinced of the great majority who do their job honestly, dedicated to their work, sacrifice at certain moments and myself that social care users would be better off. And that's why I accept only this from yours, that I'm guilty of accepting remarks, suggestions from professional people, and I've listed how many there were, that this law might be better. And we will accept in the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again say all the good remarks guaranteeing a better Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71440	A few corrections. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71441	So the correction of the incorrect assumption that I said that the centres would leave abused children in the form of a minister. Look, Mr. Minister, in article 107, he writes to you a provision that says, "Extremely, accommodation in a home of social care can be sent to a child from 1 to 7 years of age but such accommodation can last for up to 6 months." Mr. Minister, when you're giving me lessons that I haven't read the law, please read the law. You can't be in the institution for more than six months. Therefore, you can only return it if you do not have a foster family, to a family where a child is abused. And two. Around these people, the individuals in the centers, of course they're not all, they're individuals, but Mr. Secretary, you were so defending Ivo Sanader that he didn't do anything, so now he's in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71442	Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71443	In his self-recognized euphoricity, the Deputy Prime Minister and the minister have said a whole series of theologians, and yet there is still a alarming tone for his whereabouts. I'll fix only one. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Minister, it's not true that you're an accomplice if you didn't report something to the DORH or if you didn't report it to the DORH and you heard something's going on. Imagine how much you should be an accomplice given the recent events in your party, in your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71444	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. It's something else entirely. Yeah? It's an extra charge. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71445	After what my esteemed colleague said, I won't fix anything then, because we're just on the same track as our colleagues. It's an incorrect allegation when you accuse someone of being an accomplice to something he heard, because you not only Mr. Vice President that you could have heard but you witnessed it as a participant, an active participant of the government to the entire crime that took place in your backyard. And to you, Madam Representative, when you call for someone, when you have nothing to talk about about Sanader. So do you, when you have nothing to talk about summering for 7 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71446	HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71447	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has defined itself as a social state in which certain categories of the population are given special protection especially to the weak, powerless, unemployed and unemployed who provide the right to help meet the basic needs of life. And special care is given to the protection of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in social life, children without parents, and those who are not cared for by parents. All of this above, I deliberately quoted it because it is of crucial importance for the final position of the HDSSB club according to this bill. You'll be surprised, but for us, this bill has good sides. However, there are also a number of shortcomings. It is precisely the purpose of every debate to point out what is not good in the concrete proposal or leaves room for a better solution. The social care system in Croatia is prescribed by the Social Care Act, which applies since 1 January 1998 and is based on the rules adopted by it. And it's been changed relatively often. He had special changes in 2007. There are other laws that are relevant in certain provisions for the overall functioning of the social care system, but what is more important are singles and families who do not have enough resources to meet basic living needs, a child with developmental difficulties or mental illness and a child under whom or should be subject to a measure of family-law or criminal justice. A person who is in trouble because of impaired family relationships or other forms of socially unacceptable behavior, and an adult who is for the sake of disability, age and mental illness and permanent changes in health condition, addiction or other reasons needs help. The funds for financing social care activities are provided mainly from the state budget, and units of regional or local self-government are also involved in funding. It is already stated that there are 80 welfare centres in Croatia with 27 branches. It is not particularly noted that there are 72 state homes with more than 9700 users and 156 homes of other founders with more than 17,000 users, including 46 homes for older and powerless persons over whom founding rights were transferred to the county with more than 10 and a half thousand users. The proposed law argues that preconditions are being created for further decentralisation and delegation of powers to regional self-government units. This would be fine if decentralisation meant not only decentralisation of powers and obligations but also decentralisation of funds. But we'll talk about it later. I've already said that this proposal has several suggestions that we also assess to the positive. I'll count them. Amongst the positive ones, we consider unifying the existing 8 rights and helping because we believe this can lead to reductions in administration. We also positively assess the proposal for the right to a personal disability which can be achieved by a child or an adult with a severe disability, a severe mental illness or other permanent changes in the health condition for the purpose of meeting its special needs for inclusion in everyday life, thus correcting that injustice against persons under 18 years of age and older than 18 years of age. Furthermore, we consider the positive and proposal to regulate the status of parents, carers and the possibility of a family member taking over the status of parents, carers when neither parent can accept parent-teacher status, and the possibility that if there are two or more children in the family with developmental difficulties or persons with parental disability, both parents can acquire it. For us, we also have a positive proposal for a ban on the accommodation of a child under the age of 7 in the home of social care. The bill already provides for such a child to be placed in a family or foster family in case of a need. However, we also agree with the proposal discussed by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, that the concept of SOS village should be incorporated there. There are also objections to the proposed law. Among the most important remarks, I will state the following. These are remarks on the regulation of who will pay the cost of housing. I specifically point to the following articles here. Article 64(1) speaks of the decision on the right to housing aid being adopted by the Administrative Department of the Unit of the Regional Self-Government. Article 63(2) defines the cost of dwellings in the sense that it is the cost of rents, utility fees, electricity, gas, wood and other energy products, heating, water, disposal and other costs of housing. So what's the problem now? The problem is that this proposal states that Article 14(2) of the district and regional self-government must provide in its budget the means for the exercise of the right to assist all of these housing aid rights, under the conditions and in the manner prescribed by this law. And it would be no problem if Article 17 did not decedify that the decentralised functions of social care in the units of the regional self-government were the means to work homes for older and powerless persons, material... The expenditure of the Institute, and assistance for housing of wood-heating users, and everything else is not listed as something that will be in decentralised functions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's the issue with all this? The dispute is that housing costs remained for socially endangered citizens until now have been determined by local self-government units and financed from their budgets, except for the costs of heating for the citizens who were heating up wood for which the county had rightly established, and the heating costs to the trees were again financed by the county from funds for decentralised functions. I'll give an example of Osijek-Baranja County. In 2009, because we have no data yet for 2010 because they are being collected, close to 7 thousand kuna was paid for housing costs in the Osijek-Baranja County area. It should be pointed out that 10 units of local self-government did not even pay for the cost of housing, since they were largely unable to do so because of their financial capacity, except for the cost of heating to socially endangered wood-heated citizens. The question is therefore the following, given the provisions of the draft law. Who will finance the other housing costs referred to in Article 63(2)? Who will finance the cost of salaries and other labour benefits for new employees? Because you're going to have to hire new employees when you transfer that solutions will be issued by the county. And finally, what will it mean to limit the wage of employees compared to the original funds of the county budget, given the allowed limit of 20%? All this points to another example of decentralisation of liabilities, without decentralisation of funds, which would be, in principle, my concern of moving on to another. The following observation concerns social care homes. In Article 219(4) and (5), the home of social care may have accommodation capacity of up to 30 places for children by location and up to 70 places for adults by location. The distance must be more than a thousand meters away, he's already talked about it and I think Mr. Hrelja. Article 317(3) states that service providers referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, and refers to those authorised to work in a network of homes and social care activities, that they are obliged to coordinate their accommodation capacity within 7 years to shorten. The question is again on the case of Osijek-Baranja County. This county is the founder of three homes for older and powerless persons. Home for older and powerless persons Osijek, whose capacity is currently 336 beds, home for older and powerless persons Beli Manastir capacity 190 beds, and home for older and powerless persons Đakovo current capacity 200 beds, although it is ongoing and upgrading. In view of the provisions set out in Article 219, the question is what will happen in 7 years with these institutions, and the fact is that these existing capacities are also insufficient for real needs, especially in units of enhanced care. Finally, the problem is also citizens' equality when it comes to their position in accommodation in state or private homes, related to subsidising their accommodation. At the very end, Mr. Minister, you said you shouldn't be politicized, but it's not about first reading, but you can't ignore some very important things with such laws. Here I mean the role of the state in the functioning of the welfare system. It has already been said that the constitutional provision of the Republic of Croatia as a social state is the protection of those categories of people who need special protection. These include a category of unemployed people. As a reason for this bill, the time of the economic crisis is cited, and it is determined that, as in many European countries, it is one of the possible consequences of this crisis and the challenge of social rights. It is further stated that this law represents the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I quote in better targeting monetary and social benefits in the social care system, in order to ensure the minimum standard of living for the most vulnerable part of the population. And speaking of these findings, you know what the state of the state is, but what the role of the central government is for such a situation is, in itself, a lot of questions. Among those who are therefore obliged to provide assistance are unemployed, and the situation in Croatia is completely absurd. The number of unemployed in the past year and a half has increased by 150 thousand, thanks to the politics of the current government of the Republic of Croatia. This power turns out to be its first incompetence to create an army of unemployed and socially endangered, and then we offer them a rescue solution to the new Social Care Act, and thus decentralisation of obligations to regional self-government units. The state heats up social uncertainty, and then the burden of solving the problem of the socially endangered, which makes them state policy, let them solve the counties. And the principle of subsidiarity that I don't even speak. The promoter points out that the social care system is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which he understands, I quote the responsibility of individuals and families for their own social security, and the role of the state is, I underline, to help with the aim of preventing and easing and eliminating social threats. This is true. But when it comes to what the current state government is doing for its citizens, then emphasising subsidiarity, i.e. responsibilities, individual and family for their own social security, at the very least hypocritical of those who have just led this government’s policy into a situation in which they are today unfortunately. Gentlemen of the government, the unemployed don't ask for and expect no social aid from you, but a job. When the promoter is talking about the economic crisis, as a reason to challenge certain social rights, and it is still being called on to be a practice in many European countries, then one unquestionable fact cannot be silenced, it is almost impossible to find a country like Croatia, not only in Europe but hard anywhere in the world, in which the state government has so unequivocally robbed its own people, that it has become itself the greatest reason for the level of economic crisis, which today shakes our country. Therefore, at the very least, it is an untasteful claim that this Social Care Act represents, quoting the Government of the Republic of Croatia's efforts to better target monetary fees and social services in the social care system. For the Croatian state and all its citizens, it would have been much better if the top representatives of the HDZ government had less targeted the registers of Croatian state-owned companies, because then the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not have the need to target monetary fees and social services for its ever-increasing citizens in need of social care. Unfortunately for Croatia, the Banski dvori today are not a place for solving the life problems of Croatian citizens, but rather a highly productive factory of the unemployed and socially endangered. And as long as such a socially insensitive policy is generally conducted in the Bane Courts, no Social Care Act will help a growing number of Croatian citizens in need of social care. So as long as you Mr. Ministers at the Ministry of Health and Social Care are working together with your associates, the effort will be in vain until the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia ceases living in its world and until it realizes that Croatian citizens expect not only their own social welfare law but a genuine sense of social security. And today in Croatia, it is not social security that rules but uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71448	Thank you. We're going to individual debates. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Madam Vice-President of the House Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just like all of us MPs here heard a lot of things. We hear and hear about everything we do in this House, and we don't have to take things for granted, but we can't even reject them because if there's half the truth in what we hear we have to talk about. I personally use everything I hear to create one more realistic picture of how much of a system works or doesn't work or if it's right and what needs to be changed. What has to do with what I've heard, and yet I'm going to say here in public, I'm going to call it directly, and this is what I heard here today in the Council of Ministers, that a lot of proposals from different groups of experts, people dealing with issues of social care, and that they're already being incorporated into the law. It may be true, but it is absolutely incorrect that a public debate has been held or the minister cannot be used by that term. I didn't hear that, but I'm sure of it, and I know that the public debate on this law is not being conducted the way the public debate is supposed to be held. Perhaps you are some of those you know or trust who you have called and asked for their opinions, I have heard that, and those whose opinions you have partly respected and are not satisfied with and are asking for much more than you have accepted and offered, but I have heard a lot of those who have certainly wanted to participate in the preparation of this law and had no idea that something was ready and almost until the moment the law appeared on the Ministry's website. And neither did you ask them, nor were they in a position to say anything, suggest, advise or suggest. I usually belong to those who hold that the existing system of social care in Croatia has been spent, that the existing law has been spent and not in the last year for a very long time. And I think that social care is burdened with problems within the system itself, that a large number of problems have social workers, those who need to work under the law and that a large number of problems have users and that it is indeed twelve and five that this structure changes, change and law. The law must answer these existing problems, but the law must have some vision. He must adapt our social care structure to new times, new requirements, new qualitative knowledge that professions, different professions must be involved in creating this system in the meantime. We are still working on some of the old principles from which then there are dissatisfactions that she has spoken in an angry way on behalf of our club colleague Opačić, who is much more connected to this system than I am and probably has experienced so many testimony that she has been frustrated and that she is looking for a more efficient action. This new law represents solutions that have been taken over from similar foreign laws or perhaps you have combined something from related systems such as Health system, but you failed to take into account and respect our specific domestic conditions and therefore I don't think this law is a real hit. He said that you would listen carefully to everything that is being constructively proposed here and that there is a great chance that it will be installed. If you listen carefully not only to the debate here but to the evaluations of experts dealing with this issue you may come to the conclusion yourself, to the conclusion that this law is actually not possible to fix but that it would be better to withdraw it and move on with some other grounds. This law, as much as you believe, does not represent what should be the result and purpose of its adoption, which is the decentralisation of the system nor, in my view, it represents an attempt or framework for the right deinstitutionalisation of the system. I also think that it will not, to a significant extent, be based on these solutions, which offer to ensure reduced bureaucratisation of procedures or criteria on which certain rights of the social care system are based. I don't think it's gonna cut the administration of procedures. In fact, only a reduction in the number of cash fees will not yield that result, and this reduction has been carried out without an analysis of the effects of the fees themselves. The law introduces what is in line with the modern trends of the social services system. However, respected colleagues and colleagues are not based on professional standards of individual professions. It seems to me that when you look at that introduction of the law that you made a little lexicon of social concepts, a little lexicon concepts of social services, but beyond that, a lot didn't go away. I also have an observation as to how you plan to treat the concession in law. The facilities are projected to be awarded in concessions. Contemporary achievements speak of the provision of services in a concession. I didn't read it from the law. Secondly, the next thing you know, you're talking about major reorganisation and reform of the entire system and all systems. From this whole reorganisation, I recognize only the renaming of one of several centres in each county to an office where there remain unclear competencies between the institutions and these lower levels of its branch centres, etc. The centres remain administrative administrative administrative administrative places, not places where social services are provided, according to what they are described. Still these centers they use to question, control, monitor, and not provide real service. In my view, this law does not bring about what is written and how it proposes does not bring qualitative improvements but opens up a large number of dangers that could work in the opposite negative sense. I make concrete remarks on Articles 9 and 10. The National Social Council. Have reason to the National Social Council may be some advice from wise men at the government, but it can't be a body with such ingenuity. It requires real, professional administrative support because otherwise it will be shot blank. Article 50 is replaced by the following: Let's think about what we already had a national debate about what money is in Croatia. The right to assistance for maintenance will not have a single if we can provide support on a second basis. What's the other basis for that is not spoken of anywhere. This Regulation shall enter This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Which also means how to provide an emergency procedure in Croatian conditions. Articles 106 and 108, respectively, where children under the age of 7 and adults are referred to, and children between 8 and 18 as if they were lost, are not dealt with by law anywhere. I also appeal, and it seems to me that you have decided to accept the objections of SOS children's village which are registered as a home but which still have family access to child care. I have to conclude because I'm running out of time. I think we should give up one law and go into a couple of laws that will fully do the whole welfare system. Imagine what it would be like to have one health law and not have these laws on drugs, the laws on this, the laws on how many there are in the health system. In this way, the legal framework in the field of social care should also be accessed. Thank you very much, Vice President, for letting me break the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71450	I'd like to beg if you'd like to continue some more. Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, these days many Croatian defenders have appeared to me, with a solution around New Year’s Eve, that supply of about 87 kuna was abolished as the only income they had. Do they belong to the category of this law in the domain of this law? What do they live on? I really don't know. They don't belong to them they've abolished the supply of a thousand 87 kuna. Furthermore, when you spoke to Mrs Antunovic about the truths of half-truths, about the public debate, etc. It is not true or we are obliged sometimes to report our knowledge, but if it is not fully investigated, and we are not investigators, then it can be as something that is being whispered and spoken and what has been indicated to say about how, for example. According to Article 66, there is an abuse of aid in a heating of 3cubic meters of wood where people in regional and local self-government and in that segment have managed to pinch some money into their pocket. We have counties and we have an example of local self-government where there are indications that this was done and that is 20% of the total funds decentralised on regional self-government and on these municipalities. And not only that, we and our parliamentary representatives, the head of the office, the union chiefs who used social housing for years as apartments they lived in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71452	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71453	It seems to me that a colleague wanted to point out that rumour that moves how social care can also be a lucrative job. Indeed, there are many rumors and voices that are heard on the subject. But I said I wasn't going to talk about loudspeakers, but that's why I'm going to use the answer to this replica to say that this law in some way opens up space to something that should be a public activity, a public service that the state and all its citizens are solidly providing to those who are powerless to meet all the real criteria for the welfare of the state, to turn it into a lucrative business. This can become a lucrative business unless a good criterion is established, a good legal framework that will allow private capital to participate and contribute to the quality of social care and the level of social care in Croatia, but cannot be earned. Whoever wants to do this has to do it non-profitly because the state is only obliged to do it non-profitly. And this law, in my opinion, is not a good framework that won't miss out on any other interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71454	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It seems that the only thing that the left and right sides are going to agree on is that the welfare system is really an extremely important system, and especially in these for many difficult times should be a system or activity of particular interest for the state. On the other hand, it is difficult to find at this time one single person in the country who believes that the welfare system works well, to rest on solid and well-based, to work well, to provide citizens with a quality level of social care and that the system should remain as it is. Besides hardworking people who really work really hard to compensate, to overcome the difficulties that arise from bad laws and bad organizations, we don't really have anything. The social care system is in total ruin, it's ineffective, it's slow, it's too bureaucratic, one word really needs to be changed from the ground up. And what we need is a modern system that is able to respond without delay to the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The depravity of this system lasts too long and is reflected in more facts. First, if there were even three ministries responsible for him, no one really would, he was like an ugly duck and everyone was washing his hands from him and it took too long. We have led both the system and the people to the limits of endurance. The depravity of the system is also evident in the fact that in Croatia, this activity is being singled out twice as much as in other European countries. So, what am I saying? I have made an introduction, but I want to point out that both the profession and the policies and the citizens are well aware that the system of social care is, therefore, to shoot at seams and that we cannot continue to do so and that we really need a quality reform that will contribute to better efficiency and modernisation of this system. So, in order to implement a reform that is certainly an extremely big deal and is not cheap at all, we received a loan from the World Bank, and the Croatian Government was supposed to provide 13m euros and the Swedish International Development and Co-operation Agency approved a co-financing gift of around 1.6m euros. So when I read the law, when I read the strategy, when I see what you're actually planning or not planning to do to me, it comes to me to ask you and where is that money, gentlemen. Where that money went, what you spent it on, or if there's anything left of it, to which you intend to spend it. I'd love to, Mr. Secretary of State, here's a nod, but I'd like you to keep your eye on that. What are you giving us today in a parliamentary debate? In my deep conviction, something completely illogical and conceptually unacceptable. We are today discussing the law that we heard should be the basis for the reform of the social care system and the strategy for the development of social care. But I ask you, when will the strategy come to debate? 31.7 at 19 at the end of the session or when? When were you planning on doing that? I think it's a complete nonsens, and I'm surprised you don't see it. Shouldn't we have discussed first the Strategy for the Development of Social Care, first we should have discussed reform, everything that awaits us in this system, and then this law. So, I think you're the one who turned the whole thing around. In order for the reform we are talking about to be implemented, a consensus is needed and everyone is prepared for it, both politics and profession. Wasn't it your obligation, gentlemen of the ministry, that, before entering the reform procedures, you clearly and unequivocally to the entire Croatian public, to the political, professional, whoever you want, say what the aim of the reform is to achieve with this reform, for whom it is intended, are homeless, disabled, they are old and powerless, who? What are their needs, how will reforms be implemented, what time period does it take to implement this reform, in which cycles will what be done? Well, wasn't that logical to do, first to agree and reach a consensus on it, and then to go into the amendments to the law. I don't understand that logic at all, as you don't understand what consensus really means. Consensus with other political parties is important not because we think it is important that you hear us, listen to us or because of what we have to say. Consensus is needed because otherwise every new government will bring its strategy, its reform, its changes, its changes, but until when will gentlemen, until when? I don't think you're as a society. We just can't let that happen. That story takes too long for everyone to drive their own boat. What worries, which is extremely worrying, and it's not the first time that you've been ahead of all the ministries in it, is the fact that you're ignoring the profession that nobody's ever done before, but no one. And you can't say that's not because you're being denied by your actions, because you're being denied by health reform, because you're being denied by the laws you're giving and you're withdrawing them and you're changing them, so in six months you can do it a few times. You're being denied by the Law of Medical Insemination, denied by the Smoking Act, and there's no end to that. I see you find it very funny. It's tragic for me. You don't really know what public debate means. Mr. Minister, I think there are two models of public debate, one where he has a presentation in front of a lot of listeners who can't ask questions, but I can finally applaud, that's one model. And the second is to put something on the Internet and then whoever sees, sees, who doesn't see, doesn't see, and then you give it into the parliamentary procedure. You said something very handsome, Mr. Secretary of State on the Health Committee. You said to quote you, not to make a mistake, so you know the small group is, we included the profession but the small group controlled what the big group did. I have to tell you a very, very unusual formulation so I'd like to ask you to say which small group is that? Tell us the names of the people who did what came to us on the benches. So, I'm not going to discuss articles and I don't have time. I didn't mean to. What you're offering is conceptually unacceptable. You're starting from a strange assumption that the welfare system actually works well. Well, maybe not so well, but all it takes is a little reorganization. But the concept of structure for you is good and proof that you really think so is on page 11, and it says well: "The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the state budget." So you've got to be kidding me? Because on page 5, you're talking about the huge improvements this law is going to make, but imagine you're going to do it with zero kuna. Well, I don't understand it in the end. The only thing I can conclude is that you will be the first to achieve epochal changes with zero money, with zero kunas. Well, maybe you could patent it, and we could make some money out of it. So here I am going to finish Mr. Vice President and say that it is impossible to support a document that is so confusing, so unconvinced, unconsistant, in some elements even against a constitutional that does not respect the situation on the ground or the profession and that it would really be best if the law were withdrawn and we discussed in the Committee on Reform and the strategy for the development of social care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71456	Thank you. One correction by Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague insists that it's actually the law that needs to be withdrawn from the procedure, which is incorrect. And when it comes to the reform system, in fact, the healthcare system, I have to tell you that your counterparts are definitely saying that your authority in the city of Sibenik has left a general hospital in debt with 80 million kuna, so that here last year in 2010 the General Hospital in Sibenik in the current reform and the completed reform of the healthcare system would deal with profits. Therefore, HDZ's authority has succeeded in an existing reform to get out of the debt of 80 million kuna, and therefore there is no reason for this Social Care Act to be withdrawn from the procedure because it is of quality. Once again, an excellent project by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71458	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71459	Here's my colleague and colleague, and I'm going to continue to discuss my predecessor who actually said and made a proposal that seems only too high to me. Namely, to discuss this ruling that we have received under the name of the Social Care Act to withdraw and to open a serious, right and fair debate in Croatian society about what we really want in this system. I'll be in my debate if I get to try to answer four questions. First, give you arguments why this law is not good and why it is irreparable. Secondly, why the adoption of this law would be harmful to the citizens of this country above all but also to the system and what is wrong with the purpose and purpose of this law, and if we allow time and what we offer as a solution to a serious debate. First of all, this government piece is not good because it's extremely unhumble and unconsistent within itself. Ungrabed, colleagues have already mentioned it because it is not customary for a system as complex and important as social care is regulated in one law, but can be done in a code or group of laws. Here are the examples of the health system, you want in an education system where you don't have one general universal law, but you have laws that regulate certain areas. This ingratitude and inconsistency I think stems from the fact that the social security portfolio of people who are really neither too interested in it nor have entered into this problem, so they are actually trying to take over from another system solutions and from other countries to take over solutions did indeed do something miraculous and strange that I find it difficult even to call the law. This law or this article is not good because it is not reforming but disbanded the welfare system further as it has been done for years since 2003. Because it increases chaos in jurisdiction instead of removing that chaos. Because instead of decentralisation the system he continues to centralize it. It is also not acceptable because, instead of deinstitutionalisation, it continues institutionalisation because it has failed the system of cash compensations etc. So when we say that chaos is in the jurisdiction just to briefly look back on it. We do not have any transparency, no clarity in determining that they have shared competences for example in the central state, and that they are the competences of the local government. It's completely indistinguishable from this law. Next. Instead of forming a serious scientific and professional central state body that will deal with the problem of social care in a professional and scientifically sound way here, some nebulosis called the National Social Council is foreseen. Why nebulosis? Because he is assigned roles and tasks that would actually belong to the National Institute, to the National Agency or to the National Institute for Social Labour or Social Policy as we call it. These competencies that you don't put into the healthcare system so you can build a National Health Council. Do it so that you have, and don't, stop all the agencies, stop all the institutes everything you have in the health system. Stop it if you think the National Council can answer about what you are here... in this of your hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is impossible to expect that one such ad hoc body will be able to respond to such complex tasks as those required by this system. The same applies to advice at regional level for social care. Instead of decentralisation, the continuation is centralization. The ministry continues to play a crucial role in the management of welfare institutions and in providing funding for social programmes, and for social assistance and services. What's left of other levels then? What's left? What are they gonna do about it? And the services will continue to overlap, the funds are unreasonablely spent, and on top of everything here, there is no mention of the role of civil society that has great importance in all modern European social care systems, it is completely neglected and completely forgotten here. Instead of institutionalization is institutionalization. How? So you're talking about how you're going to give concessions to institutions, and you're talking about actually going into deinstitutionalization. Well, that's, you're in different parts of that law coming into collage with yourself. At some point you'll be giving these homes a concession, talking about a network of homes, institutions, etc., and then you're talking about deinstitutionalizing the abolition of institutions. You've missed a complete system of cash fees, and you've set it up in an inappropriate way. There is no need in particular to set aside, for example, housing costs, from the maintenance aid system. It's a special subcategory. The aid and care allowance in monetary form has already been shown before, so it is known as a completely missed form of support. It should be a favor, etc. Here you have explicitly determined what is the amount of money, and then you have unambiguously converted it into some percentages, so you have come to 15 imagine 0.4% of the established budget base, 22 percent so for the fee account, and 22 and a half percent of the monthly relative line of poverty. It's clear how you got there, but that's not how it's done in law. It's mentioned that you're the social pensions that you're in... mentioning the years you've been talking about, they've completely evaporated, where are these social pensions? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's that concern and concern for 65,000 older than 65 years who have no more job skills, no more property, no more anything, how did they get out of this story? Why did you even mention it when you don't count on them? And finally what's particularly worrying. You are in your intention and purpose to cut the maximum costs completely, to leave out the fact that we live in Croatia, so you imposed the property criteria and the possession of apartments in which people must therefore live as a criterion for granting social assistance or any social support, any form. Well, people in Croatia 80%, we're a specific country, living in their own apartments. They can't eat the walls of my people. So it's like you're on Mars, like you're not writing a law for the Croats and the citizens of this country. What will happen to the people who work in the ministry? You're creating new tax offices, people are going to be asked to control property, its origin, use over a number of years, what they did four and three years ago, etc., so the social workers, according to this model, could replace the courts for work disputes and determine the guilt, because you claim that the person who lost his job with his guilt has no right to social assistance. So is that normal? So imagine Dr. Golem coming to you from a doctor who, by his fault, got hurt, fell off a bike, so you tell him you have no right to health care because you fell off your bike because you did it yourself. Well, that's absurd. Money isn't property, so what did you put in the game again? Well, that's a settled question 11 years ago. You're really going on with your shoe. You're talking about first service, second service, like it's a rank list. You're talking about credentials, you're talking about instructions. Well, you've completely forgotten, missed the system you're in. You see social care as a business, so you're really asking who cares about social care because what you've offered here as the leading people of the system really has nothing to do with it. And I'm going to tell you this in the end, what is the purpose of this law is to mention savings, transparency of spending money, etc. It's a disastrously set goal. Why? Because there are taxes in this country, there are laws, assemblies, governments, counties to take care of people and citizens, not about how the last poor one is going to shake a pair out of his pocket. That's why this law is also dangerous, and it's missed and you pull it back people in the name of reason and responsibility to the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71460	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. I am sorry that there is no minister, because the fact is that it is just a mess in this system because only the minister has been called only the Minister of Health over the past few years, not the Minister of Health and Social Care. So, unfortunately, social care fell to a very, very low branch. I don't doubt you, Doctor Goleme, as a doctor's expert, but I think you should still be someone from the welfare system. I am also on the trail of my colleagues as I said today on the Committee on Human Rights, it would be best for this law to withdraw from the procedure and go very, very seriously. In Croatia, about 70% of people with disabilities are involved in social care. You can imagine the amount of injustice we're going to make if this law goes through in this form where we get it. The minister, with a very firm stand and voice, and this is not the strength of the argument, said how many associations and civil society are with him, but I will also list as much as he is not with him, since some alliances have only received information on the subject, and have not passed it on to the ground, so many associations on the ground have remained, except what they could see on the Internet for several hours, so the attorney for persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities Split, Croatian Association of Deaf Touches, Association of Deaf Persons of Split, Association of Child Divorced Persons, Association of Children with Visual Disabilities, Association for the Promotion of Inclusion, Association of SOS Children's Village of Croatia, and the Ombudsman provided the opinion of the Association of Children with Visual Disabilities, and Additional Disabilities in Development, Association for Automism of Croatia, Croatian Association of Blind Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Associations of Croatian... , a company to help mentally retarded persons Vukovar, a distrophysics association, disabled cerebral and child paralysis and other disabled persons Slavonski Brod, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A law that propagates social exclusion simply does not serve anyone. First of all, this law should, as I said, be rejected and start all over again. How can a law be passed on such a big thing as a social care system without any means necessary as it says in the proposal for this law. That's exactly what I'm on to, and I'm on to what my colleague Romana Jerkovic said because it really has to be a magician to raise a system like this without a single kuna, that is to transform and create a better and fairer system. In fact, it does not raise the quality of life but protects the system, produces total chaos in jurisdiction. Instead of going into decentralisation he deepens centralization. It brings 30 definitions and explanations of these definitions as if we have a dictionary of foreign words, not the Social Care Act. The reduction in the number of cash charges is not based on an analysis of the effects of the individual fee but is based on a reduction for the purposes of the reduction. The procedure and criteria for the achievement of social benefits remain bureaucratic. Now imagine one person with a disability or an elderly person who needs to carry out 5 to 6 administrative actions in order to exercise some rights, as I said no new funds are provided, while at the same time planning more important improvements and raising standards. So these 5, 6 administrative actions serve to protect the system and not to give it the right. Instead of reorganising the local social services system, one of the welfare centres in the county is projected to be transformed into an office with an unclear division of competence. The division of responsibilities at the level of the two ministries that we have seen in these seven years remains very bad. So while it was the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, and it was still followed by the Department of Family, Motherhood and Youth, then some things could be resolved, and this is how we got the derelict of this system and it takes too long. For the first time today, we saw a minister in the Parliament talking about the welfare system in the last seven years. I think that says enough how much the state is interested in this problem at all. We have witnessed all these past years since two ministries were joined – health care and social care, that simple social care has fallen into total oblivion. Social care centres remain administrative places burdened with a huge administration that the users of social services examine, control, monitor, and do not provide social services in accordance with the rules of the profession - social work, psychology, social pedagogy etc. There is also a risk of excluding a significant number of users of these social care systems, additional red tape and problems in financing the system. Also, this law will most affect persons with disabilities and members of their families. The proposal of the Social Care Act is not in the spirit of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, although it is referred in the opening section to this document. As I mentioned, 70% of people with disabilities are connected to this system. The law does not provide for the expected and announced harmonisation of compensation in such a way that it promotes involvement in the community, equality of persons with specific needs resulting from the effects of long-term damages of different degrees of physical, mental, intellectual or sensory which cannot be met in a normal manner and without specific support. It is also left out the clearly defined right to access information tailored to communication in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In Article 92, an inclusive supplement – cash compensation is included in an inclusive supplement and states that the conditions, areas and methods of support will be governed by a special law to be adopted within 3 years. So it's not until 2014. Otherwise, an inclusive supplement serves to equate the ability of disabled persons to engage. Which means it's a universal balance in each other's position, so it should be excluded from any property censorship. An inclusive supplement should be used to settle that difference, i.e. those additional increases in costs that healthy persons alone can settle, and people with disabilities cannot do without the necessary help. The draft proposal concludes that everything is focused precisely on cementing the existing situation in the system and developing modified institutional forms of care. The empowerment of users in self-sustaining basic living needs is about achieving the right of financial nature, and there is not too much talk about how to actively engage in society. Article 26 states that social care services are provided to users in their homes or local communities through non-institutional forms of care provided by different service providers with the aim of improving the quality of life of users and their involvement in the community. Through the entire text of the law, it is not clear what forms of concern these are, although the documents which are assumed to have been the basis for legal production state form. There's a lot of confusion here, but I'd still skip a little bit of it and go back to the funding they gave us from the EU, and we didn't take advantage of it. We've done a lot of research, they've organized working groups, they've even made a good bill, but the minister knows why they threw it away. Also in this law, employment of persons with disabilities and education and everything other ministries simply don't consider to be in their jurisdiction. Also, unemployment of persons with disabilities – if social care users are already wanted to be involved in a regular working environment through employment or other forms of employment, then such support should be for all users in the system regardless of whether they use services in the family, community or service outside their own family. The strategy for the development of the social care system states that a single criterion will be set for determining the damage and functional capacity of the person and setting up a single body of art. The deadline for the implementation of this measure is 2012. The holder of the measure is the Ministry of Health and Social Care. So how can we do something that doesn't exist? The Republic of Croatia signed a convention in March 2007 that also does not respect and therefore calls for the convention. And now I'm going to bring the end. He says it's the health department's responsibility for all of this. Why put the social into health care? I still don't get it. So it must also be stressed that this bill is not about social care is not in line with the many international and domestic documents we are calling for. But I won't go on there's much more to say. I think there are about 50 amendments to this bill and I don't want to talk about it. But I would ask you once again to withdraw this law and really put it in public debate that in all ways we can participate in creating a quality law that will be available to everyone and will not be subject to political bickering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71462	Thank you. One correction by Ms. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in a series of incorrect allegations, here's what I'm gonna do to make one right. The colleague Škulić is simply not true but it is irresponsible to say that this law does not ensure that persons with disabilities are equally involved in the community on an equal footing with others. Read Article 28 of the Convention here I have it here, I can give it to you if you don't have it, so you will see that this law has just classified everything the Convention requires of it. The rights of persons with disabilities are not lifted or reduced, the rights of persons with disabilities are not only monetary rights but also social services, there may be more to read about them here, so you would see that persons with disabilities are included on an equal footing in the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71464	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. What needs to be pointed out, and no one has mentioned in their individual discussions so far is the fact that this proposal of the Social Care Act will not raise the quality of services in social care, and that should be the essence of this law. In fact, the quality of services will remain at the same or lower level for reasons, since additional jobs and obligations such as such are added to the centres with the existing ones. a project of social mentorship, a consultation of people on how to strengthen or strengthen them in the search for employment, as if employment services did not exist and it is not part of their work. Namely, the Croatian Employment Service has workshops for persons who are registered in their unemployment records, and with them is working on individual plans as well as teaching in job-seeking. That proposal asks experts for a lot of administration, less direct work with the user, which should be the primary objective of social work. It would now refer to some categories whose status with this bill has not been resolved in the best way or could have been far better defined. Families with multiple children with difficulties had to be allowed to use births or parental leave, work with half full-time, work in part-time due to increased child care, leave or work in part-time to care and care for a child with severe difficulties in developing or resting working relationships up to the third year of life under special regulations. The right of parents, the right of a child to increased care and the right of a family to integrity and to a better quality of life, which is really impossible to achieve in conditions when a parent is entitled to a family with two or more children with more difficult difficulties in development. Today’s support and assistance for the family is to find as many suitable solutions as possible for parents who care for two or more children with developmental difficulties, and this involves not only material help through limited or unlimited time forgetting that materially it is not the only thing families need. In the event that one parent has more children with severe health damage, he needs to be provided with special home assistance regulations and childcare assistance. It is then incomprehensible that mandatory fostering of children under the age of 7 is required, although I personally support fostering, I believe that raising a child in a family environment is far more quality than institutional care, but what is incomprehensible to prescribe such a provision until conditions are created that this is possible in all cases. We still do not have in Croatia as well-developed foster care as this bill implies, especially not specialized foster care. Furthermore, there are a number of vague articles to be mentioned. In particular, when we talk about support, I would refer to article 49. According to the current situation, the determination of occasional revenues was established by the basis of a tax administration certificate that is always issued for the previous year. In which way they determined whether something was donated, whether he received compensation or a reward. The way in which occasional and one-time incomes are calculated requires a huge effort and research of social workers turns into some kind of controllers that has proved to be in vain so far, because if we know orally that someone has received something, and for this there is no material evidence or document that knowledge is worth nothing. Also, in Article 50, who will pay for an estimate of the value of a family or a single person's property? Will tax administration or authorised persons be used to assess? The practice has shown that the assessment of the tax administration according to their criteria in most cases is higher than the market value. How to determine whether someone has sold, donated, or given up the situation in land books and the fact that centres or social care systems are not networked with other services. The assessment of the motor vehicle according to the tax administration criteria generally does not match the market price. How do you prove that no life support contract has been concluded? Also, in Article 56, how can we truthfully determine whether a working relationship with a hidden person’s conduct has ceased? The conditions, mode and exercise of the right to assistance for maintenance or the test procedure are complicated, will not have any effectiveness, as most of the above documents cannot be collected and thus assessed by whom maintenance aid is really necessary. There is too much red tape throughout the process and there is no discretionary evaluation of the expert. And in the end, I would repeat exactly what most participants in this debate have said, and that is the fact that an adequate public debate has not been held. This law was not discussed by expert centre workers, so those who would implement it in practice did not discuss professional organisations in social care, did not discuss the activity of the director, so I believe that a completely different concept is needed. Solutions have been taken over from other countries that do not meet domestic conditions. It does not bring quality improvements, maintains centralised and institutional care. What needs to be done to modernise the social care system in the Republic of Croatia and bring it to an envious level is the following. It is necessary to urgently access the creation of a package of new laws that will regulate the social care system, to define the social services system needed by different user groups, to implement a high decentralisation of the system, to start the process of full deinstitutionalisation, to design social services in the community, to unite competences over the management of the social care system within a ministry and at the level of inter-resorship coordination of social care, health, etc. To also highlight the importance of lifelong education of experts in the social care system, to establish a national social work agency, the Institute for Social Policy. These are just some of the proposals that need to be achieved in order to improve the social care system and improve the quality of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71466	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Blackie, this is more or less what you said, especially when it comes to service quality. Still our social care centres worry about how to get the heating, how to get winter tires etc., etc., and about networking I don't think I know about their bright and distant future. Since I've been able to read since I was 5 years old, I think I've read this law well, and I also consider myself a very intelligent person, so I think I understand quite well what I've read, so among other things, children with developmental difficulties and children and people with intellectual difficulties. Unfortunately, a few days ago, I was at one, at the first conference of self-prosecutors with intellectual difficulties at which no one was from the Ministry of Social Care, only later came someone from the lowest level. So the minister was invited, given that it was the first such conference at all with us, it's a first. And secondly, since we often refer to a convention called by the Ombudsman, I can read and especially Article 12 when it comes to equality before the law when people with intellectual difficulties are easily deprived of their ability to do business and it is very difficult to return. To buy anything at all, to marry, sell, or buy clothes, they must seek consent from their guardian. So I'm talking about it, and I think I've read it very well, and I've interpreted it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71468	Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. She's gone. He's losing his word. Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I must first of all express at the beginning of my debate the satisfaction that this law has finally come to our benches for the reason that for years we have been talking about how it is urgent to adopt a new law on social care, how a social care system needs to be improved, and I think this is the first step towards that desired goal. In my debate, I will focus specifically on the rights of persons with disabilities, it would take too long to talk about other areas regulated by this law. And right here, I must say, here and thank you on behalf of the majority, alliances and roof associations, the Community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, for thanking the State Secretary to you and your associates that the ministry has had here towards persons with disabilities, which has accepted almost all the proposals that the representatives of persons with disabilities have made to me as representatives and roof organisations and directly to you in the ministry. I think this shows that persons with disabilities are equal partners with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have been talking about for a long time and that is one step forward in some common solution not only to this but also to other problems. When I talk about the remarks, here's my colleague Škulić earlier said there were at least 50 objections to this bill, there were others and some came to me. Why, if some are not in a certain period that has been to deliver observations did not arrive, could or do not know why they did not. Some remarks have been delivered to me, but I don't think there's anything wrong with that, we actually have enough time to get this bill to say so in the best possible way. I think there's room for some more things that maybe we've all missed together, and some others have noticed them, so we can still fix it. And I believe that there will be no problem there, because it is absolutely certain that the proposals of the representatives of disabled persons are certainly not bad, although I must say here, and regarding all the discussions we have heard on the boards, so here is my colleague Škulić, tonight and here, said that persons with disabilities are not allowed to participate in the community on an equal basis. I must tell you that there have been proposals and objections to too much law in this law, from persons with disabilities who have come specifically to me. I don't think the scope of law is too great. Some associations of disabled people commented that it might be even better to reduce the rights of disabled people to encourage them to work. 'Cause that's how they roll around in their fees and don't ever think about doing it. I can't agree with that because I know too many people with disabilities, and I know that their goal is only to do it when they can and when they get a chance to do it, not to live on social benefits. Although I'd be begging if we weren't chasing the concepts. Personal disability, aid and care allowance, inclusive additions are not social benefits. These are benefits to persons with disabilities based on their disability in order to make up for in life what they cannot because of their disability, not because of poverty, but because of their disability. So it's not social compensation and I think it's a big step in this law that we've finally come up with after a long series of years of inclusive additions. Of course, it takes time until the unique body of art that started with its work is here and thanks to all those who helped to move especially to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which took on such a great responsibility because it is not easy to form a single body of art that will determine, I dare say finally in the Republic of Croatia that someone with disabilities is. They are defenders today, but we people with disabilities who didn't get hurt in the war have no fixed disability but only percentages of physical damage. We're finally going to solve this with this unique body of art. However, the probationary time limit for me to say so to that body of art is about two years as far as I have information, and in those two years all that should be crystallized, and regarding the ICF that is necessary to finally pass the ICC Act or to determine the conditions under which someone will achieve an inclusive supplement because of course it cannot be the same for all. Because people with disabilities I'm going to say an example that performs on its own for example the physiological need, self-inflicted bathing, combing can't be as inclusive as the same height as the one who can't do it. Certainly a big step and welcome what we special pleasure to point out in the inclusive supplement here, which is that the Croatian association of the blind agreed with this model. We all probably also remember the debate in this House when the Law on Adjectives was proposed, when we did not accept this bill. Here's why we're here, and now we're here to get that inclusive supplement. We did not accept it then because every category of disabled would then ask for its law, about its inclusive supplement or supplement or to call it this will be a solution for all persons with disabilities. And so I welcome the code, and I time it out. But one more sentence I welcome to the status of parent-teacher and family care provider because it has shown in a number of cases that many parents either can't, or unfortunately some people don't want to worry about their child with developmental difficulties, so it will be taken over by those members of the family who will be able to do so. Anyway, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to get all those suggestions that have come to me these next few days to this debate, and I'm going to deliver to you Mr. Secretary of State here to find a common solution again, and I'm going to put as many of these new proposals as possible, so that this law is really going to be a consensus at the end, because this is a big problem. And let's all agree. I mean a big problem, a big law that covers a big area. And for people with disabilities, so they like to say one of the fundamental laws that regulates their rights. I believe that in the end everyone will be pleased and I am quite sure that my colleagues and my colleague Škulić will have to say when it comes to disability, especially she and all other colleagues in this House really are satisfied with the solution of this law in a way that finally social benefits will be allocated in a fair way that we know that there have been major abuses so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71470	Thank you. And Madam Representative Sonja Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My debate will be about to follow up on my colleague Jerkovic's debate. In fact, I'm not going to talk about the very core of the law we've heard a lot about and colleagues have pointed out some can be good sides and bad ones. I will actually try a few sentences from a purely professional point of view to describe how changes are actually introduced and how changes are managed in any system, as well as in the social care system. So that's just one teaching text, one professional review that doesn't actually have any demagogy or politicization. He says next, introduce a change. The introduction of changes in a system is one of the greatest temptations for any manager but also for the system itself. The situation in a system is sometimes referred to as the present state. A number of carefully selected activities need to be translated into a new future state, while at any time managing the overall situation, i.e. recognise the characteristics of the transitional state and may react in accordance with them. In order to successfully implement all of these, it is necessary to know in detail the techniques and processes of change management. It is necessary to have a vision of the future state, the energy to support, and the players to change and produce. Actres can be divided into three groups – people who support change, those who are responsible for change are you, and people who benefit from the changes that have been made, so users. Just gathering all interested in the planned change is the key to success. So, that's what we've repeatedly stressed, there's been no public debate, and we see here that the key to the success of each change is the gathering of all actors, so in this case, people who work and who make themselves a system of social care for the users of the system itself, as well as political actors. A prerequisite for such a gathering and synergy is a good recognition of common needs. So in order to recognize the needs at all, in order to define them first of all, we need to bring together all the actors, establish a healthy communication, communicate problems, respect each other as a partner, and then we can define common needs. As far as we can see, there has been no public debate, and thus there is no recognition of common needs. The most important step after identifying the need is to define the vision, i.e. the achievements of the planned change. After a defined vision, energy is needed to focus on... all players relevant for the successful implementation of the change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So can we even talk about the vision? Do we know what we want to change? How do we want this system to look, when they're left alone, based, and that's actually recognising the real needs? Mobileised actors need to be systematically guided and coordinated, and in line with the vision and needs of actors to adapt individual structures or elements of the system necessary for the success of the change. Systemically implemented preparations, and the grouped actors on the implementation of the change activities do not necessarily mean achieving the desired changes. In order for the absence of change to occur, and that is what we all fear, as a surprise at the end of the period foreseen for the introduction of change, it is necessary to ensure, as an independent activity, and to monitor progress towards the planned change. I think that's exactly what this monitoring is, that tracking progress is our key problem, not only in this case, but also, whenever we pass some laws, whenever we implement them, so we implement them, and that's where the story stops. Sometimes we get feedback from the field that is difficult, sometimes we get reports, but often we just read them and we don't react to them, we don't work on a repeat, how can I say, progressing and repairing complications that have occurred in the meantime. Only with these and such secured elements is it accessible to create a map of changes, and planning to review all the steps needed to carry out the planned change successfully. Planning and conducting changes. The system of planning changes is the shape of project management and therefore is particularly important to know all the important elements of such management and cycle. First of all, it is necessary to accept the behaviour of the project cycle, and it consists of four phases, so plan, do, check, change. It seems to me that we often fall, not just in this case, on everything, but on all other activities, on all four steps. We plan something based on the lack of knowledge of the real situation on the ground, we try to do something and then check and change is often missing, or it only happens when law enforcement itself is so impossible to implement on the ground, that we simply have to go to new amendments and amendments to the law. Monitoring this cycle enables the creation and implementation of an optimal change plan. Furthermore, problems usually occur in the least expected place, which is to define the problem. Very often, seemingly obvious problems are shown only by the tip of the ice santa, and for the detailed causes of the problem that we want to solve, it is necessary to thoroughly explore the existing situation and answer a number of questions about the causes of the situation that we want to change, meaning who, what, when, how, how, how, how much, it seems to me that, and in this case, there is a deep real analysis of the current social care system, because if we don't know what the situation is on the ground now, and if we don't have concrete and thorough and real facts, then we can't go into any change and we can't even have a clear vision of what we want to achieve and how we want the system to look. It's no easier to even define goals. In addition to having to define general, and specific objectives, it is important that they be specific, measurable, feasible, realistic, and put into an appropriate time frame. Since we haven't done any of these previous steps, then we can't even define the goals, let alone be quantifiable, to be realistic, to be realistic, so that they have something to do with the real state of things. It's final. We can say that management of changes is a complex process, which includes thorough and systematic planning, sound and efficient management, and continuous monitoring of all processes, to detect unwanted processes in time and to change the inappropriate behaviour of one or some individuals. So what I've just read is one recipe, one cook putting changes into any system and so on in this one. As far as we've heard from the speakers before me, and we can actually conclude that many of these steps are lagging behind, so it's not really hard to predict that the real, quality changes by adopting this law will be left behind, that we'll just get another more complex, complex and difficult situation and additional confusion and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71472	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of this day, I would like to thank everyone for my active contribution to the debate on the proposal of the Social Care Act, and I will clearly try to answer all the questions raised during today’s discussion. I think that here at the end of everything you can be thanked first of all to the lady MPs who last discussed, and thank her for what she read, for the purely simple reason why I can see just now how right we are when we tabled this proposal, because by everything that's stated we exactly respected all of this, except for one thing, it's that there are not three, but there are four groups, and the fourth group is those who are against everything. You forgot to mention that, because then you'd recognize that it's all together as it is. I'll start from the beginning, I won't name MPs, because most of them still focused on a number of changes. So this is how the National Social Council, as first of all, understandably there is already a national health council, for those who do not know and who are brought by this Assembly, and in Article 9, it says clearly and loudly that the National Social Council is bringing this Assembly. The members of that social council are just expressed by experts in the field together with representatives of associations, meaning the user to whom this law applies, and to claim that such a council is some kind of fiction or something else, I think it is a harsh insult to those who will be members of this council, which you MPs in this House will choose when this law comes into force. In Article 50, I have to say that people did not understand, so it also appeared in public. They didn't simply read the law, they caught a provision, so I'll do it again. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The social care law clearly and loudly states what all property is, in accordance with this law. It also lists savings as assets. And in Article 50, when it's said that someone can have rights, but they can have assets up to 100 budget bases, we say that this property can't get into that savings, because it would turn out to have a financial base of up to 100 budgets. So it's totally the other way around from what's been made public, and what's been discussed here today. The third thing that has been put forward here as an inaccuracy, and it is persistent, is not clear to me why, unless the law has been read, where Article 161 clearly states that they are given in the concession of services, not institutions. I'll repeat the services, not the facilities. There was always debate here and discussion that we were going to give this law to a concession institution. No, I don't. Gentlemen writes in the law of the institution Article 161. In addition, Article 158 of the clearly unquestionably stated social care services are not provided for the purpose of obtaining profits. It is very important and I agree with those who wanted to do so specifically point out that it was special to say, and that is exactly what we said in this bill. I must admit that I was a little surprised by the few terms used here, but I was expecting to say, perhaps another word, that 500 kunas were solved with a resounding no, it's a social basis now determined by the government's decision. Then, to repeat repeatedly on the one hand, it is not going into deinstitutionalisation, on the other hand, to criticise the provision to which children have access to some kind of compulsory deinstitutionalisation. To claim that there is chaos in jurisdiction despite the fact that jurisdiction here is clearly listed. Well, we're not going to list, it's said to be chaos in the City of Zagreb. Yes, I agree exactly. Only the City of Zagreb is not organized even under the existing law and should it be made clear. We have the Center of Social Care of the City of Zagreb and we have 11 offices that do not exist at all, they should have been a branch they were not organized as branches. However, I am very surprised that some of these criticisms come from a person who ran the social care system for 4 years and in those 4 years managed to come up with only 3 changes and imagine in 2001 3rd, 6th and 9th months. In the 3rd month, we're introducing the board of directors into welfare centers that were never before, and then we're talking about administration. In the 6th month, the introduction of a reduction in maintenance aid, and in the 9th month, let's say the law introduces a Croatian Institute for Social Work in Croatia. Today when we talk about the situation it's said to be in discontinuity, it's said we're not doing anything. So in the entire welfare system in one year, three times change the law and say nothing with that law. And for four years, run the system and wonder where 500 kuna came from and that it was suddenly solved, so we said it's obvious 15.04%. I think it's very, very dangerous. For a lot of other questions I'm trying to get, let's say an inclusive supplement isn't supposed to be censorship. I don't know where the census is for an inclusive supplement. An inclusive supplement in this law is set as a category to be adopted within 3 years when all the preconditions prescribed by the same law, which will be passed under the law, are met. Why? That as a lex specialis so explain to me lawyers I'm still just a doctor, right, like a lex specialis can lead to a situation that in other laws, so all those provisions that should in some way put off the power to put one law, not to change 20 and some laws as much as there is a system of social care. Imagine making a statement that there's no roof law in health care. So what's the health care bill? Isn't that the roof law? In the welfare system, this is the Social Care Act. What are the other laws? Household law. However, what is not recognized to say, and I am also very surprised that we are talking about maternity leave and part-time work on the Social Care Act when we know it's in the subject of family law. But that's why for those parents of children who have any difficulty making both parents if there are two and more children to have parent status, we also made it possible for your parents to get and call it a leave. They can never get leave, they have children with developmental difficulties, but that they can get leave, that the system helps them to use one period of time up to 4 weeks a year to make a little commitment to themselves because they have dedicated their whole lives to those children. And I think we did very well here. We will not expect to write something in this law and the family law. Or administration, I have to tell you that 2 are key moments in the past 4 years that the Minister of Health and Social Care, now the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Social Welfare have led. One story is the reform of the welfare system that went as a World Bank loan. They wondered where these money was, we'll say it very simply – until the swearing can be determined where these money is. When working in a system in one part of the component in the construction of new centres, we had a new centre in Krapina, a new centre in Daruvar, a new centre in Novska and not to list which centres they were. So from the part of the education of the work system office all in one place for the education of professional workers, so from the change in a certain system that we now foresee by this law because it was so imagined, which is from dislocated offices and approaching the user what I like to say to the printing system of social care so you will say ha from the field of health no, but it is a model, the model of access to the user no longer comes there to the fact that the information of the social care system is made. Yeah, it's over. There's users inside, that works. The APIS is linked to the tax administration. Through the APIS, it is linked to other institutions to reduce administration and to enable users to provide the best. So, looking at this side, let's say that, for example, something should be the discretionary basis of an expert worker, exactly the other way, transparency requires that there are no discretionary evaluations but that there are clear criteria to know when, who, how, why, and so with what the state has to do to help those who need it most to help in a quality and proper way. There won't be any additional jobs in the system not the ones that were today. Exactly that we're some kind of change because we've split up, we've separated the fees from the services. We no longer have a connection, so we say in service, so between services we pay and accommodation users during education. No, it's in compensation, to help with education. We said what services they were, we introduced early intervention as one of the proposals, we introduced emergency services as one of the proposals. So there's a lot of newspapers, and I understand that you may not have been able to manage at the first moment in this paper. But I'll say something, if you follow the system that's going on then I'll tell you that there's something called the code of participation of the interested public. The Code of Participation of the interested public has been adopted precisely so that public debates can be extended and not to be elitism, an elite club of certain, but rather vice versa to be available to everyone and that anyone who wants to say something about it can say. This is, according to the code of participation of the interested public, the law is laid down, the legal proposal puts on the website available to all. We expanded it, so we put all the comments we received on the website to make it transparent to see what we accepted from the remarks, which we will accept, what we will discuss. I'm saying, we already told the board today that we're going to talk about the SOS children's village, about their status in that. Absolutely, there's no speech at all. And there are further improvements we have to say that at this debate today on the Committee on National Minorities and earlier on boards have really shown that the law that we think is a good legal proposal that can certainly be improved. So until the second reading, we're going to use all these remarks, all these opinions that when this law comes to life, it's going to be that modern law that makes us all go into this together. I'll warn you one more thing - decentralisation. People have the CARDS project, strengthening administrative and fiscal decentralisation of CARDS 2003, which has the social care sector where it is clearly and loudly defined how decentralisation is carried out in the social care system and where it is clearly said that the first phase of centralisation is at the level of the county and the second stage of transfer of founding rights from the founding and financial countries to the same county. This is the first stage in the law, and it's perfectly clear to you all if you want to look at it that way. Thus, by respecting all the conventions absolutely respecting all the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia, which at the end of the day, our experts said in Brussels or Europe, we have made a new legislative proposal and we hope that the further debate that will be held after this parliamentary debate will bring about some further improvements that we will absolutely accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71474	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions, the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. At 12:00, there will be a vote on the debated agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-07-0.u71475	Moving on to the proposal of the Social Care Act was first reading, P.Z. No. 746 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: first - a proposal of the Social Care Act is adopted; secondly, all observations, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. The result? The proposal for a conclusion was accepted by most votes, 71 votes for, 2 abstentions and 28 against.
