ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78335	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Trade. These amendments and additions to the law seek to create an appropriate legal basis that will be adapted to the needs and new conditions of the market, and with a view to developing a commercial activity with regard to the interests of employees, consumers, and in particular to narrowing down space for emerging forms of grey economy and unfair competition. And precisely because of this objective of narrowing down space for the visible forms of grey economy and unfair competition, and in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposed this law for the adoption of an emergency procedure. This law provides for the regulation of trade activities related to the sanctioning of a natural person who carries out without law the activity of trade, as well as the regulation of issues related to the gray economy and unfair competition. Therefore, the existing legal framework is being upgraded by extending existing provisions on unfair trade. It is prescribed that it is not considered unfair trading, and in order to curb the grey economy. A paper is also introduced which, first of all, makes it simple to process and remove administrative barriers to the obligation to issue a solution to meet the minimum technical conditions for the performance of trade by the competent authority in a way that introduces the institute to continue the activities of trade in a sales facility. This means that trade activities will be able to be carried out in sales facilities and without issuing a new solution if a solution of the competent authority has been issued for the same sales facility in compliance with the minimum technical conditions, and in the meantime there has been no significant change concerning space, equipment, means of trade activity. This enables traders to carry out their activities more quickly, economically, more easily. The current provision of the applicable law relating to the obligation of the Ministry of Economy to determine specific conditions for the conduct of trade in large shopping centres in the process of issuing a local authorisation, since it is an administrative obstacle for investors, is also deleted. It also extends the circle of persons who can carry out trade activities, so that non-profit legal persons, associations, cooperatives, institutions, etc. can also be engaged in trade activities. which, according to specific regulations, in order to achieve its objectives and in accordance with the provisions of their statutes and other general acts, they sell their products in a small way outside the store in a manner prescribed by the relevant provisions of the law. As regards the extension of the circle of persons who can carry out the activity of trade on non-profit legal persons, this proposal allows those who, without the minimum technical conditions, have said in accordance with these specific regulations for the achievement of the objectives, and in the light of the provisions of their statutes and other general acts, can carry out the activity of trade established by the Statute, other than those which are explicitly prohibited by law. The legislator had no intention or equalised its provisions to non-profit legal persons with companies in carrying out trade activities with a view to selling any goods to a non-profit person making a certain income. They sell goods that are directly related exclusively to the purpose of achieving their objectives. It shall also determine the possibility of selling goods through a run-off sale, subject to the conditions laid down by the representative authority of the city or municipality in which the sale is carried out with the aim of supplying the population to specific and remote areas of insufficiently supplied retail capacity. For the purpose of further and better upgrading of the activities of trade, as well as the equalisation of all market operators considered a trader in terms of existing regulations, and relating to persons employed in that branch of the economy at the jobs of sellers and trade operators, this proposal sets out the minimum stages of secondary education necessary for the work in those workplaces, which has completed three years of secondary education. This final proposal for a provision on the professional preparation of persons employed in the activities of trade is prescribed in a way consistent with the definition given by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is also a practice in some EU countries, in its indication of the draft law in question. The proposed novels are subject to an equal obligation relating to the problem of placing goods on the market for both traders who place imported products on the market and traders who place products manufactured in the Republic of Croatia on the market. It is also important to point out once again that this law introduces criminal liability for a natural person who, without legal certainty, carries out the sale of goods outside the store in accordance with the provisions of this law or the sale of products which, according to specific rules, cannot be sold in open spaces. In addition, under 18 years of age, and in accordance with the requirements of the Ombudsman for children, another prohibitative provision is introduced that prohibits advertising, exposure, as well as the sale of goods of pornographic content to persons under 18 years of age in all sales places. Finally, we expect positive effects both for the economy and for employees and consumers. What interested the public most about the adoption of this law, of course, is the issue of regulating working time in trade. As regards the matter of working time in the business activity, we recall that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decided on 19 June 2009 to repeal the provisions that prescribed the working time of the store during the week as well as on Sundays. On the basis of that decision, from which new circumstances in the area of working time of shops, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship have arisen in the Republic of Croatia as a consequence of trade activity, it points to the application of Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 1 The law of trade. Therefore, by virtue of the provisions of that article, the trader independently determines the working time of the store in accordance with the provisions of the law in question, taking into account the needs of the customers, the number of employees in the store and the respect of their rights governed by this law, the Labour Act, other labour regulations, collective contract, the agreement concluded between the employer and the working council and the labour contract, in particular with regard to wages, salary compensation, salary allowances, distribution and redistribution of working hours, overtime and night work, and breaks, daily, weekly and annual leave. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on trade is prescribed to monitor the application of the employer and the worker’s working relationship referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article by the authority of the State Administration in charge of labour inspection tasks. It is therefore important to stress that the proposal and this law retains a provision that protects workers' rights by directly including the provisions of the Labour Act, other labour law, collective agreements, agreements, labour agreements, and, in any event, repeats myself specifically in terms of wages, fees, salary supplements and redistribution of working hours, overtime and night work, and daily, weekly and annual holidays. Following that, on the date of its decision by the Constitutional Court of 19 June 2009, legal effects are produced by which the trader independently determines the working time of the store, thus showing that the suspension of those provisions of the Law on Trade does not result in a legal gap. Under the above provisions of the law in question, it is arranged that in the holidays in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about holidays in the Republic of Croatia and the holiday law, it means that in the holidays in the Republic of Croatia, there is no way that trade cannot be done in the holidays of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to believe that the Committee for the Legislatives of Corporate Negotiations and the Protection of the Rights of the Economic and Social Council at the session held on 14 July this year has delivered an opinion on which representatives of the Government, the Croatian Employers' Association, the Association of Workers' Unions of Croatia accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, meaning this bill. Following this, we propose that this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act be adopted, noting that the Proposer accepts amendments to the Legislative Committee which occurred during the debate on that Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78336	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78337	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. There is again a proposal to amend and supplement the law on trade. I remind all of us, somewhere in 2008 we had a discussion of the Trade Act. Perhaps we should be reminded that very soon after that law was passed, we also had amendments and additions to the Law on Trade. If you remember then even a telephone session of the government was called upon to make a quick decision to adjust trade hours because it was found that in the middle of the tourist trade season they could not work, that is, traders could not have opened their shops. But I also remind myself that it was the one period when we passed that Law on Trade, when there was one big action by our State Inspectorate, which we later called it, that we flew all over Croatia and controlled the working time until which the trade was open, whether it was broken or not. You remember back then, primarily when it was small merchants, small craftsmen, bakeries and the like, they were charged with a series of fines. And I'm saying all this because in the end today we're discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Trade for one basic reason, and that's because the Law on Trade was actually unconstitutional in one part of its articles. So in half of 2009, if I am not mistaken, here exactly and roughly writes, the Constitutional Court has decided that the articles of the Trade Act, whose provisions concerning working hours are not in accordance with the Constitution and that since 19 June 2009. We are now at the end of September 2011 and today we are discussing amendments and additions to the law, which is basically the point of erasing from the Law on Trade in a number of articles. This is what I am saying on behalf of the SDP Club to warn all of us once again that it might be good to listen more sometimes and when warnings come not only between us but also when warnings come from experts, that certain provisions which are proposed by certain laws are unconstitutional, that they are not obeyed, the law is passed, and then the Constitutional Court abolishes the provisions of the laws adopted in the Croatian Parliament. We at the SDP club don't think this law is going to change anything in particular. It will definitely not change that the mass of traders will now seek, or that trade will be opened, that they will work all night long, that trade hours will be extended. In addition, the trade union warns that traders have already adapted their working hours to the Constitutional Court's decision not waiting for us here for two or more years now since the Constitutional Court's decision, not waiting for us to discuss this amendment and supplementing the Trade Act. So those who have found interest in doing this all night are already doing it, usually it's in some frequent places, maybe in some tourist places, but if we think it's going to start now, so trade will open up, so new people will be hired, somewhere are estimates of trade unions to go into a significant extension of trade time that should employ about 30,000 new people. It is clear to all of us that this is not going to happen, but it is also clear to all of us that in the past two or three years and in the trade sector there has been a dismissal, that there has been a closure of trade, and primarily because the laws that we have passed not only this, but also the other part that we have brought, let's remember what we called a crisis tax, a harraser who in fact has in some way made it impossible for our citizens to invest more in consumption. We have done exactly the opposite than the whole of Europe or beyond Europe has done. There are 100,000 people working at the store today. It's almost 70,000 women. So it's a female labour force in a retail store. This law will not solve the problem of their overpaid salaries, this law will not solve the problem of their extended working hours, overtime hours that are not paid to them. This law will not resolve the issue of paying for night work, the issue of working on holidays, Sundays. The question of their winnings and the right to make their days off. This law won't solve it. We will continue to have big problems in that part, so on behalf of the SDP club, I ask the question if state inspectors were able to at one time and there were enough of them to control the working time of traders throughout Croatia, whether it was time for these same inspectors to control the level of wages, contracts that these workers have with shopping centres or small shops, craftsmen, etc., to control whether they are being paid contributions, whether it is possible to control whether they are paid overtime, whether they have the right to have a free day. And one more thing. When we talk about shopkeepers, then we all think that's the point at the cashier's or what's said to walk around behind a counter or around those shelves. But I warn those store workers do all the work. So they're not just at the register. They change or push or drag pallets with goods, they put all that stuff on shelves, they do heavy physical jobs that are often not in their job description, but because they're afraid they'll lose their jobs if they refuse, that these jobs do, so they agree to something like that. So, I warn on behalf of the SDP club that this law, as I have said, and as the traders themselves say, will not change anything significantly in the current situation, as I say in terms of working time, everyone has already adapted more or less long ago before here we are now discussing this Law on Trade. So we expect and demand that the result of this Law or the good functioning of this Law be a good organization or a different organisation or a more efficient organisation of inspection services. Without it, I think we can pass, and I don't know what laws I don't know which areas. But in principle, problems will remain the same. Furthermore, since this is an emergency procedure, we have several objections and questions regarding this bill. You mentioned, among other things, that you have respected the request of the Ombudsman for children related to the ban on advertising, exposure and sale of goods of pornographic content to persons under the age of 18. But Mr. Secretary of State, you forgot one little thing. Except for the press, so in the article of the Law, you say: “In the retail trade advertising as well as the exposure and sale of goods of pornographic content other than presses to persons under the age of 18.” This means and the Ombudsman, see also her demands regarding amendments to the Penal Code specifically warned about the problem of the press. So what we call daily reading, and in different ways, pornographic content is also going through. And now you're saying no to this, I guess on some newsstander under 18 he won't be able to buy some kind of helper or I don't know what sexy, and he'll be able to buy a pornographic magazine neatly or something that has elements of pornography. I think this one except for the press is something that should be thrown out of this law. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues from other clubs to take care of it. It's true, there's one restriction. We have long asked that through, and through the Law on Electronic Media, through the Media Act but also through the Criminal Law define what pornography is. It seems that, that this bill of law is kind of going along with it, so we don't even know what that definition is. Nowhere in our laws has it been defined that it is pornography or pornographic content, so here, except for the press, everything else will be banned from selling under 18 years of age. And we all know that you take any newspaper or weekly or daily or monthly magazines that you will find pornographic content in one part of them. So, I ask the legislator that, or the Proposer, pardon the motion to consider this observation regarding the printing of pornographic content, which will continue to be freely allowed for persons under 18. Another thing we want to warn you about, and we're looking for an answer because it's not clear. In view of the fact that the amendments and additions to the Law in trade are now being made in the article, Article 3 which speaks of Article 10, that is to say that trade can be opened in the premises of cultural, sacral, educational and pedagogical, scientific and other public institutions, as well as areas considered a protected area of nature. We ask about educational and pedagogical institutions to explain what it means, whether it means that within some schools, I can possibly not know how to open up again, quick food kiosks, chips, sweet things and so on, and we know what discussions in our society about the need to protect our children not only from those advertising content that we have said through adequate laws that are not allowed to be conducted in educational and educational institutions but in this sense and related to buying, for example, certain foods that are not in line with the requirements that are in medical terms before them. So, I would like to ask that one clarification of what kind will actually be open within the educational process. In the SDP, we consider it if it is so that it must be, that it is only possible that it may be those who sell certain supplies that are directly related to the educational process. So, for the sake of their discussion on behalf of the club, the SDP will, with all the objections it has and the warnings that we have given, not only today but also at previous discussions and when the Trade Act was passed, when we have had its amendments, we will support this bill, because ultimately I say absolutely nothing will change, with our requirements for a better organisation, better efficiency of inspection services, and that finally, when it comes to trade law, when it comes to trade employees, someone starts to worry about not only, therefore, the conditions in which these workers work, but also what should belong to them according to all the regulations in Croatia. And please, of course later on, if you address the secretary of state, answer the questions I have asked about the possibility of availability however... content through the press, and this part relating to educational institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78338	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78339	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is what the colleague said in front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 18 July 2008, and which in October of the same year had already experienced one amendment and addition, which is also mentioned here. What is important to say is that these changes and additions to the day are the possibility for municipalities and cities to freely determine the working hours of the store in their area, meaning by way of derogation from the general requirements, but also on the condition that they can start working, that they can't start work until 6 a.m. or end work after 24 hours. In general, as stated in Article 1 of the Law, the Law on Trade regulates the conditions for the conduct of trade on the domestic market, as well as the conditions for carrying out trade abroad, safeguards on imports and exports, i.e. quantitative restrictions on imports, i.e. contingents, increased customs duties, anti-dumping measures, import and export licences, etc. Furthermore, the law regulates measures to restrict trade, working time in trade activities, measures to prohibit unfair trade, and supervision and administrative measures. So what can be said is that the 2008 law created a legal basis for the functioning and further development of trade activities in the Republic of Croatia, of course with certain shortcomings and obstacles that seek to remove proposed changes and additions. It is precisely because the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade wants to contribute to the quality of the legal framework of trade activity, which will be further adapted to its needs and new conditions on the market, of course with the aim of further development of trade activity, while taking account of the interests of employees and consumers, and narrowing down space for emerging forms of grey economy and unfair competition, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club will support its adoption. In particular, we would like to welcome the fact that all the social partners participated in the drafting of this bill with representatives of the state administration body, as well as the social partners, resulting in the fact that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Trade has been adopted by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is quite logical, and by representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, but also by the association of workers, representatives of the Association of Workers' Unions. It's for all praise. In particular, when we talk about the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Trade Act, it is necessary to recall first and foremost that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has taken a decision on 19 June 2009 which repeals Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Articles 59, 60 and 62 paragraphs 2 and 3. The law of trade. Since the abolished provisions of the Law on Trade were prescribed working hours during the week and Sunday, this practically means that all shops have been able to work on Sundays since the day of the decision mentioned above, of course this is the case today. This is why Article 12 of the amending and supplementing the Trade Act mentions articles completely deleted, as well as Article 58a relating to the framework of the working time of the store, which could be determined by the municipalities, cities and the city of Zagreb for their territory. Following the above mentioned, and based on the provisions of Article 57 of the applicable Trade Act of 19 June 2009, traders may fully determine the working time of the store, but are obliged to take into account the needs of customers, the number of employees in the store, and to respect their rights established by the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia by collective agreements and other acts of employment. In particular, they are obliged to take care of pay rights, salary fees, salary allowances, schedules, redistribution of working hours, overtime and night work, and breaks of daily, weekly and annual holidays. The legal provision also provides for supervision of the application of the employment relations between employers and workers, which is carried out by the authority of the State Administration responsible for the work of the inspection. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community think it is very important and good that this provision is kept in law, because we are practically empowering everything that special laws prescribe and this special law when it comes to the protection of workers' labour rights. In this context, we can agree with the proposal made by the SDP Representatives' Club to strengthen the work of the inspection, as well as in the part I will later mention, where minimum technical conditions will no longer be required for those traders who continue to work in a certain sales facility. In a similar context, we feel it is important to stress that the basis of the provisions of the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia has been established that the holidays in the Republic of Croatia are not working, which makes it clear that they can't even work in these days. Furthermore, the final draft of the law introduces a newspaper that goes towards simplifying the process of opening up trade and removing existing administrative barriers to the regulation of cases where there is no obligation to issue a solution to the conditions for the conduct of trade by the competent authority, thus introducing the Institute of Continued Activity in a certain sales facility, which I spoke about earlier. This means, in particular, that the activity of trade will be able to be carried out in a sales facility without a new solution issued if a solution to the competent authority on the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the activity of the trade has already been issued, and in the event that no significant changes have been made to the space, equipment and means of the operation of the trade. This enables traders to carry out their trade activities faster, more economically and more easily. The significant newspaper proposed by this law is also the expansion of the circle of persons who can carry out the activity of trade despite the fact that they do not have the status of a trader in the sense of the Trade Act. Consequently, following the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Trade Act, the activities of trade will also be able to be carried out by legal persons such as associations, cooperatives, institutions and the like, so that non-profit legal persons who, according to specific regulations, in order to achieve their objectives in accordance with the provisions of their statutes and other general acts of products are sold in a small way outside the store in a manner prescribed by the relevant provisions of the Trade Act. It is also prescribed that persons who do not have the status of a trader, and yet in accordance with the law, may carry out the activity of trade, do not have to comply with the legal requirements for the conduct of trade in cases of sale, i.e. at fairs, exhibitions and other similar occasions. For the purposes of equating all market operators which are considered as traders of amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, provision shall be made laying down that persons employed in a commercial company or craft registered for the purpose of carrying out the activities of trade at the place of sale or as a commercial manager must have at least completed secondary education in a three-year duration. In addition to the above-mentioned proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act, it provides for a certain other newspaper that I will only try to explain briefly. So let's take the turn. In order to combat the grey economy and the illegal business in carrying out trade activities, it is prescribed in which cases the sale of goods below its purchase price, including value added tax, is not considered to be unfair trade. Therefore, in addition to those provisions which refer to what is unfair, what is considered to be unfair trading in these amendments to the law tries to define what is not considered unfair trade in certain cases. It is also proposed to delete the current provisions of the applicable law relating to the obligation of the Minister responsible for business affairs to determine in the procedure of issuing a local authorisation specific conditions for the performance of trade in large shopping centres, which the provision so far has certainly been a major administrative ban for potential investors. It is also prescribed that future movable sales of goods will only be able to be carried out subject to the conditions laid down by the decision of the representative authority of the city or municipalities in which the movable sales are carried out for the purpose of that area. All traders placing on the market technical products, motor vehicles and other vehicles and parts thereof shall be subject to the same obligation irrespective of whether they are imported or manufactured, imported or manufactured in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore an obligation to ensure the guarantee list, and the duration of the guarantee is also required to provide service and spare parts for that goods. Furthermore, criminal liability is introduced only for a natural person, a citizen who illegally carries out the sale of goods outside the store contrary to the provisions of this law or the sale of products which, according to specific regulations, cannot be sold in open spaces. Finally, in accordance with the request of the Ombudsman for children, a provision is introduced to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products from advertising, exposure and sale of goods of pornographic content to persons under 18 years of age in all sales places. Finally, and because of the above mentioned and because we believe that these amendments and additions of the law will have certain positive effects for both traders, employers and employees in trade and our consumers, the HDZ Representatives Club will accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78340	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78341	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State. The HDSB Club strongly opposes the adoption of such a law and, as an emergency procedure, since the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions of the former law, i.e. the current Law on Trade as early as 2009 and, among other things, said: “The Constitutional Court found that the regulation of trade time in the Republic of Croatia enters the area of freedom of judgment of the legislator, but that the Constitutional Court is authorised to examine whether the legal measures laid down are in accordance with the relevant constitutional good, or protected constitutional values.” And what is most important here, in that sense, the Constitutional Court found that in the procedure of the adoption of the Law on Trade, its proposing clearly indicated that trade as an important economic activity plays a key role in the Croatian economy, and in this sense, the general objective of which, in which the law seeks to achieve the activity of trade as a business as an economic bank should be free of business and commercial activity. More interesting than all that, the Constitutional Court also found that the objective of which a special measure has been introduced in the Trade Act under which, in the economic activity of trade, Sunday will be the base day of the applicant in that previous law, it has not explained but is justified only by the objective of those legal provisions which, in exception to the general rule of prohibition, regulates the possibility of working certain shops on Sundays. This failure by the applicant, namely the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to indicate the objective of which it considers an insufficient general rule of Sunday as the day of the week's rest prescribed by the applicable Labour Act, namely to indicate the objective of which it considers necessary or justified in the economic activity of trade reached for the specific legal measure of banning the operation of shops on Sundays, the Constitutional Court does not make it irrelevant. Since there has been almost 2 years since the Constitutional Court decided, I see no reason, since this is not only about the Law on Trade, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the MPs who will vote in favour of or against the Law, but rather about consumers, but primarily about workers working in trade that this Act is passed by emergency procedure. Because if the urgency were really so great, it would have been taken immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision. I have to say that I have not heard this from the HDZ Club nor from the SDP Club, which is particularly pleasant to me, that this law does not go into the real problem of trade in the Republic of Croatia, employees and consumers and represents, above all, only one technical nomenclature that is related to certain parts such as the size of doors, touches certain circumstances that are related to the sale of pornographic content, and I do not think that all citizens who go to the store to buy bread and milk really do not have to take Dvds or I do not know what with pornographic content, and are not at risk just under 18 years old. Because if cigarettes in kiosks in shops have to be hidden, it doesn't apply to the very pornographic content that you already have in malls, and God damn it to all the kiosks. There are a few here, now I'm talking clean about this bill, things that will slow down implementation especially in the units of local self-government, because calling every time city, municipal council to decide that someone is selling goods on a wheelchair, during certain events will slow down the important decision-making process and collect at least those units of local self-government that have no idea how many council members and pay for council meetings or city councils to gather that decision. So far, such decisions have been made by the executive body in the units of local self-government, city or municipal headship in this case should be the mayor or mayor. It is visible here and is related to the structures that work in the shops this proposal is about having to stay at work for all those who are caught and do not have the right professional equipment, that this law defines that within a certain period of time they must acquire that professional equipment. I'm going back to a series of laws, including that famous 2001 Fizulic rule. The year and also the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2004 In the years when the Constitutional Court, though in different compositions, abolished the work order on Sundays from 8 to 13 although then the minister had a certain store, I don't believe that anyone rose at 13 a.m. on Sundays to buy bread, probably people rose at 7:00 p.m. I am going to insist, and this is somewhere on the trail of that law that I would say with both my heart and soul support this right hand side, and I am calling on the left hand side, since this is about workers working on Sundays and holidays, to support first of all this amendment, and to realize that this law goes into another reading and to realize that the Constitutional Court, which among other things has brought the opinion that the report is constitutionally unacceptable to the effects of the consolidated texts of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Laws, other regulations and general acts that this Assembly does not practically adhere to this country without the Constitution, because it is the Constitutional Court in this report and assessed, I call on both the left and right to accept this initiative for other reading, it is somewhere on the trail of what the Croatian Bishop's said and that Sunday is a day for rest, and God has decided that it is a week's a day for the family and a day of rest for the family. I believe that all those workers who work or shop for a while, or at a store on big and Sunday and holidays, bloody earn their wages and their money, for those overtime hours are not paid, are not paid to work on holidays, are not paid to work on Sundays, so as Assembly representatives, let's try to see that one family in which the wife works, rises on Sundays at five o'clock in the morning, works at the cashier's office but before that, between 5 and 7 or 8 until a certain mall or shop opens up for a while, combines a bunch of beer, wine, bread all other supplies, children at home, and they don't have a mother and have no family. And let's try to imagine, for example, both the New Year and the Holy Three Kings and the Body and the Day of Work and the Day of Anti-Fashist Fight and the Day of Statehood, and then the Day of Victory and Homeland Thanksgiving, the Day of Croatian Defence, the Great Lady, now we've all got a call from the President of the House for Homecoming, though he'll be on Thursday 6. It won't be 8. The October on the day of independence or independence, because the Assembly MPs will not work that day, they will have a holiday, they will be with their families, but that day will work someone in the store and it will be bloody. Let us also imagine the holiday of All the Holy, imagine two of the largest Catholic holidays in Croatia and Christmas, when turkeys with mills are being eaten here in Zagorje, when somewhere in Dalmatia there is a branch, cod on white, and in Slavonia we will be eating salt or cold, for lunch, pork, Zagorje say odojka, imagine now mother who, instead of going to the world mass or to be with her family for Christmas lunch, must work at the store. Imagine Easter, and I will remind you only, and that would thank HDZ, who after 10 requests for a break, placed Easter as a holiday in this law on my amendment, as well as Christmas and the second day of Christmas. Imagine Easter when, in accordance with the rule of Fižulić, it was possible for the Constitutional Court to allow units of local self-government to decide by their regulation that Sundays do not have to work on holidays. I'll remind you that I've been mayor since 2001. In the year, that the town of Djakovo was almost the only city in Croatia that was not working on Sundays and was not working on holidays. So ask all those who worked in these shops what it meant to them that they did not work on Sundays and that they did not work on the holidays. Now, imagine this Easter, I hope it's common everywhere is that cooked ham we say in Slavonia with the cooked eggs, while someone there may be eating a slice of mortadella or a dwarve and being bloody working on Easter, on the day of resurrection. Finally, the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia may be the most visible right now at the threshold of EU entry. I don't know if the secretary of state or those who wrote such a scandalous law were in the EU, so they may have gone there to Austria or Germany, where here during the season in Austria during the ski season, they don't work trade for three days during the holidays. In Germany, small shops close at 14 o'clock, shopping malls work until 20, no one works on Sundays. And in most EU countries, that's the case. What the HDSSB advocates at this point is that this law definitely goes into second reading, because it does not solve anything, does not solve the basic problems neither the Croatian economy nor the trade problems, nor the consumer problems, nor the employees' problems. We believe that it should be found, because there was enough time for this law not to be passed by emergency procedure and not to be brought just now at the end of the mandate, because it defines only how many doors there will be and whether there will be traders with the SSS but rather to enter this law into real problem-solving both the Croatian economy and trade. So, hard against Sunday's work. I'll mention, I hope the Secretary of State knows that before this law was proposed and the regulation that units of local self-government determine to call on duty shops, it couldn't go away because it was the number of squares, etc. So we need to find "modus vivendi" for those who don't understand the way of life or the way of life, and this law doesn't exactly allow for those who work in the store and those who represent this law to pass. In the end, let's remember Christmas and Easter that if the police, the army or the emergency service have to work, they don't have to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78342	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vinković, in your exhaustive presentation, you said that work on Easter, Christmas and other holidays in the Republic of Croatia in shopping houses should not be imagined. It's so visible, it's so obvious that we don't have to imagine, it's a practice that's settled here, a sad practice where I really don't mention the rights of workers, etc. which are being broken. ... Correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Vinkovic should not be imagined, but we can simply see this sad practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78344	Correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78345	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director. Advocating as always for basic family and Christian values, it is difficult for us to accept some provisions of the Law on Trade at the HSS Club, following up to now unfavorable experiences, which obviously go to the detriment of Croatian workers, especially those employed in trade. In fact, we can group in two basic dilemmas of illogicality and inconsistency. First, what is the basis of this law? It's the Constitutional Court's decision. And that raises the question whether the Constitutional Court becomes a legislator in the Republic of Croatia? Secondly, it's a blow that directly violates fundamental human rights. More than 200,000 women employed in a store that nobody has really protected so far, nor will they be able to protect in the future if some of the provisions of this law remain like this, and they pay us to protect them. We all know that and we can't close our eyes in front of that fact. So let's take the turn. So this is another law that is passed on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, so I repeat myself, a rhetorical question, does the Constitutional Court become a legislator in the Republic of Croatia? This decision of the Constitutional Court is an exception in European terms. For example, German constitutionals made a decision on the same problem at the same time as the Croatian Constitutional Court, the diametrically opposed decision of the Croatian Constitutional Court. And the practice that our court has brought into question is the usual practice in Austria, France and the UK. Such a decision by the Constitutional Court favours large capital, and I stress that it brings workers into an unequal position, especially workers. Certainly now that we are approaching entry into the European Union, we should review this decision which is going to harm Croatian workers and workers and is opposed to European legal practice, so whatever instance it has made. Citing the Constitutional Court's decision to ban work on Sundays, the Government deleted the provisions of the Trade Act relating to the working time of the store during weeks and Sundays and allowed employers to determine the working time of trade as appropriate to what would normally be broken on the back of employees. It turns out that employers will be able to decide for themselves how trade works, so if it takes 24 hours. In doing so, they should take into account the provisions of the Labour Law when it comes to working time, but so far these provisions have often and in general been violated. The HSS was guided by the principle of protection of workers' and workers' rights, but also by the fact that we are a country of Christian and family values and traditions when we proposed amendments and additions to the 2003 Trade Act, which introduced regulation, i.e. banning Sundays in trade and which was then adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The same law, unfortunately, was soon abolished by the Constitutional Court, filled with complaints from trade chains and their like-minded. The reason for the abolition was to disrupt the inequality of entrepreneurs within the trade sector. Meanwhile, a new Law on Trade was passed in 2008 which we see again in the Constitutional Court, so employers can now set their own hours as they wish. It's a kind of blow to women. workers who have more than 200 thousand in the store and who lose their ability to be with their families with such a legal solution, and who are forced to work literally without rest for a monthly salary of 2500 kuna. Of course, the counterargument that comes from the other side is that inspection needs to do its job, but the fact is that reality looks completely different. At the shop of workers and workers work monthly and up to 50 hours overtime and unpaid. Workers and workers work on average for two weeks without interruptions, and sometimes for a month and a month without any day of rest. It's a reality and a true state in front of which eyes are closed. Such workers and workers cannot work in that rhythm for a lifetime. This means that it is realistic to expect that a good part of them will get sick, and their treatment will fall on the burden of the state, or taxpayers. This creates a new group of permanently unemployed and unemployed people. The share of employees in trade is not insignificant, accounting for as much as 17.3% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. There are 260 thousand employees working in more than 50,000 shops, and it is estimated that Sundays work about 40,000 store workers, and perhaps more if family members who work on Sundays are not employed there. Many work seven days a week, they don't have one day off, and so do holidays and days off. In some shops, workers had not had a single day off in six months, although the Labour Act guaranteed it. Over-hours in the store is so much that you could hire another 10,000 people. Most workers are not paid at all on Sundays, holidays and days of work, with well-known low wages at the store. Some trade chains work on three shifts, or 24 hours a day all seven days a week, so that workers do not know in advance which shifts they will work on, but are required to wait on alert when the employer invites them to avoid losing their job. So workers are forced to agree to inhuman working conditions because they are often under direct blackmail pressure by firing. Many families do not have one day a week so that they can be together and in cases, although rare, when workers in exchange for work on Sundays get another day off in a week it cannot be an adequate replacement because other family members do not have the day free. Even many employers do not consider trade to be necessary and profitable on Sundays and holidays, but many are driven by unfair competition in which, apart from workers, there are also small entrepreneurs and there are 22,000 of them in the store. The problem of working hours has been rounding up most of the European countries lately. In Austria it is forbidden to work on Sundays and holidays with exceptions during the tourist season. In Germany, as a rule, the store does not work on Sundays with a number of exceptions. It is a similar situation in Denmark where in principle shops are closed while small shops work unlimitedly. In Finland, shops work on Sundays and holidays from 12 to 15 hours, only in June, July and August, plus five weeks following the decision of the resolution ministry. In Norway, work is allowed only three weeks before Christmas from 14 to 20 hours. In Greece, as a rule, major shops are closed on Sundays, while in smaller places and tourist areas there are no restrictions on work. So other countries and tourist destinations tend to work on Sundays and holidays, especially since on-call shops as well as shops in tourist resorts are quite enough for basic needs. On weekends, especially Sundays, tourism consumption should be rerouted towards catering facilities and rural economies, and not to trades, and therefore the Ministry of Tourism in the Republic of Croatia is working on it. It is our position in the Croatian peasant party that it is extremely important to preserve and promote the dignity of workers and workers. Our society, and in particular the media, is full of sensational events, and in this noise sometimes it is very often heard by the voice of small people, concrete workers and workers who work daily, do not make scandals, do not belong to any exotic or glamorous group. That's why I'm saying this for them. Before violating their rights, the public often closes their eyes. The Constitutional Court's decision, and thus the state to give up the arrangement of an area of social life, can have a long-term serious impact on the overall social life. The decision is in no way worth neutral, the Iustia et pax Commission also warned. This decision favours the development of a low-level culture of shopping malls, which based on what shows and causes much reduction and eroding of indigenous Croatian culture, and thus important Croatian values. In this way consumer mentality is expanding, assumptions are being created for the people's fall into debt slavery, and most importantly the possibility of Croatian citizens being cheap workers in other areas of life without sufficient rest is being opened. Large capital wins first the weakest fortifications, which are in our case trade because in them are mainly women with the least real power in society and with the easiest possibility to replace if they are individually or organised against the exploitation policy of employers and legislators. Shops are so lacmus paper for further expansion and deregulation in the protection of workers and workers in Croatia, which already causes and will cause many more negative consequences. By defending Sunday's freedom for workers and workers in trade, we at HSS defend not only one special price or sector but a culture of Croatian employment and a whole Croatian society. That is why we are warning that the state must take responsibility for regulating important areas of public life, and trade certainly belongs to one of them. We therefore finally propose to coordinate the non-compliant and to defend human dignity and their right to family and rest for workers and workers in trade. Let's not let the insecure present make us lose our prospects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78346	Thank you. And on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78347	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I agree with all those who are against Sunday's work. But I think it's really a little different in this country, and for starters, I would suggest that every MP tries to run a small shop for half a year, one trade, one trade shop, one trade shop, and I'm convinced that after that, they'd think otherwise that they'd be performing here after the pay phone. Anyone in the government who's more capable than us because they're ministers should give two stores, so he can see what it's like to pay for all contributions, salaries, overtime, VAT and all that. The basic principle when we talk about any work pays, pays everything, from working overtime on Sundays and then works clearly. Who guards the dignity of the worker. So, first of all, those who provide these people with jobs, who pay their salaries, who pay their contributions, and through that form in some way under the quotes of food and us in this Parliament, in the Government, in all other activities that are on the state budget. Greece doesn't have to work in front of bankruptcy. Austria is something else even in the season and they work etc. So it turns out that in this country, on Sundays, I can only work pops and clearly the poor most sell the land, let's just say I don't mention any locations now. First, when we talk about this law, gentlemen, page 23, Article 24, Article 70, these are these sanctions that are actually dragonish. The fine of 50 to 250,000 kuna will be fined for the offence of a legal person if, well, come on, I agree that if they carry out the activity of the trade is not registered but also some other moments. Then here we have sanctions beyond 30 to 150000 kuna. Well, then we have between five and 15,000 kunas, etc. etc. I absolutely agree that every job in this country needs to be put in order, but it should also have for everyone and measure, you should know what it means to earn some small business 10, 20, 50, 100 or 200 thousand kuna. Which means earning trade or craft shop 50, 100000 kuna or in a craftsman or in a small economy or selling bulls in the country or not knowing how to fish, etc. You'll get kidnapped before you pay your wages, rents, taxes, contributions, VAT, pay the supplier the goods, and don't count any further. There are representatives who know it very well and are sitting in this House, so they are not politicizing. Unfortunately, there are those who don't know it, there are people like that in the government, unions, so maybe they don't care. But I assure you to be a small entrepreneur today, to be a small trader I'm not talking about those people who have acquired factories through conversion and privatisation. Being what I know today is someone who has this agricultural land so lives by doing this job is extremely ungrateful, and I would even say that those people who run these jobs are in a harder position than the workers or workers who work with them. As far as Article 11 of this Act is concerned, it mentions alcohol, pornography, etc. Okay. It's all right. However, something else is also on the pier, and what we call or part of the media called Milinovic's Law, which is whether small traders will have to remove cigarettes from their counters. I quote a New List opinion, forcing small traders to hide the legal goods they sell is a safe path towards their accelerated decline that has been dramatic for the past few years. Many countries that have given up on the ban have understood that well, so on and so forth. exposure to cigarettes. And regardless of what we are in Istria, perhaps even the most interested I don't think there should be any favors to anyone or to INA or MOL what I know to someone else, etc. And today, if I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Spevec is holding a conference or some counseling on cartels. Once again, it must not be in this land of bargaining for anyone. There must also be no adjustment of any laws. But I'm reporting literally because of my hours. The worker needs to be paid. That must be the first principle. The store should be allowed to work. We today have such a crisis in the country, in our environment, which is also affected by the crisis that we will either let people work or we will all perish with dignity. Gentlemen, I'm really asking you to take care of yourself first of all in the season. It is not the same to work in a shop in the season, for example in one Marija Bistrica or in one Poreč, in one County or one Rovinj, in one Križevci or not in Opatija, in one Koprivnica or in one Zadar, in Slavonski Brod or Dubrovnik. It's just not the same gentlemen. Keep an eye on when we talk about these moments. Why am I picking up? Working hours of sale Article 58 It is literally said here that during the period from 1 June to 1 October, it is the season and during December the store can work on Sundays and then the store referred to in paragraph 3 of this article can start at the earliest at 7 o'clock and finish work by 14 o'clock at the latest. What does that mean? That one who sells I don't know shirts, bathing suits, Japanese, shirts should close at sea in the cities I mentioned from Poreč to Dubrovnik at 1400 your business space. Don't do that. I repeat, one is working in a store in Slavonia, the other is on the Adriatic. The store downstairs in the Adriatic should open for 18 hours and let people work until 22 or 23 hours and that is part of the identity of the place that someone here has already mentioned. You gentlemen have to earn in those 2, 3 months so you can winter. In winter you can sleep, in winter you don't have to work under quotes at the store, in winter who does? Taxes work, obligations come, contributions should be paid, of which the living state, of which the VAT clearly states live, which we all pay, and from contributions, excise duties, I don't know other taxes paid by entrepreneurs, well paid and citizens, etc., the state lives even from the sale of assets, by the sale of INA, Croatian insurance, JANAF etc., etc. What's going on in this country today, while he was Minister Schucker here, up there, it wasn't, because of the VAT debt the tax collectors started stamping companies, I thought that was the case only in Istria. No, I don't. Today I read the New List in Rijeka. They told us either pay VAT within 10 days or we stamp you and make it impossible for further work, no more mercy, no more payments to wars, and 10 war delays say the owner of the company is probably because the VAT charge is less than planned for 50%. If VAT is less than 50%, then let's keep printing the store and cut people's working hours. It doesn't seem to be, but okay. What's actually going on, if I read you just one conversion of one of the traders, what they're doing is blackmail, it's open to us or pays the VAT within 10 days, or we print you out, and we disable further work, they tell us that there's no more mercy, no more payment on wars and 10 wars, so far we'd be getting notices for VAT debt, we'd be making a payment of the debt, the tax is blocking our bill and, of course, it would somehow be charged, but there's always the possibility that we'd be able to keep working and making incomes, and then we're doing a debt reduction for VAT. That's how my debt for VAT in a year fell from 500 thousand to 60 thousand kuna, right now that I'm finally able to get it back open to me by closing down the company because these 60 thousand kunas can't be paid back in the remaining three days when, how can I later pay off the debt if through the company that I've sealed, I can't work, how will I create income to pay off the company and continue to work with another 15 of my employees, etc. And that's what practice is these days, at least in Istria, I'm reading now and in the Primorje-Gorski County. Some countries we all know are affected by the crisis, e.g. one Italy absolutely lifts all the restrictions when the work is done, the worker pays, the state pays, works. What the state needs to do is it should have an understanding for that small employer, as he always shows understanding of the great employer. If the one I've just read here owes you 50 or 60 thousand kuna, don't destroy it, so give that man another chance, which if he fails, there are 15 people, where these people are going, they're going to go to the Department of Employment on the burden of the state, and the state is running out of taxes and we're just going to be Greece. What we can't let anyone in this country open 5, 7, 10, 15 or I don't know how many companies, that changes or one leaves dues, but if someone has the same company 20, 25 or 30 years in one way or another, if I pay all the obligations as sure as the one who has 15 workers in 20 years paid taxes at least 10 million kuna not to put it out, just give the man simply to work so he can survive. These small merchants, the small craftsmen, the small craftsmen of the state got nothing, the tycoons got no factories, they don't pay for the tourist land and we give it to them, the foreigners got the refurbished banks, the church we returned everything they had, a little bit more we gave them, the workers got apartments for 8 or 10 thousand marks, ok, farmers can get to farm land, some see what's going on in a village in Slavonia taking it away, I think something similar will happen to us down in Krshan if the chief and the team don't stop playing with farmers, and he'll have 200 cows in front of their buildings where the tables, the defenders got apartments, pensions okay, all right, crafts, small crafts, etc. They didn't get anything, they couldn't even get a business space, largely due to local self-government to be fair after this law was passed half a year ago. And so, gentlemen, let's be careful with this working time, finally, that in 2000, a small trade held 70 to 75% of the market, today it's 25 to 30%, so the big trade chains that have been coming in since 2000 now hold 70% of the market, and if the kid stays out of business, then the country will be left without a single structure that has been alive so far. I'm not going to say that we choose these games until we're young between bankruptcy or survival, but that's really what it looks like. Croatia will not say it in front of bankruptcy, but it is not far from it, let us choose or we will work, or we will fail, and it is worth the law on trade. In the past, Vinkovic mentioned three kings, Easter, St. Mary Vela, St. Mary Mala, Body, Christmas, etc., and on these days the doctors, the officers, the caterers, the checkers, the popes, the friars, the firemen, etc. work. The trader should pay, pay overtime, holidays like everything else, but do not close the store and know Đakovo is not Poreč, and Marija Bistrica is not Zadar or Dubrovnik. And you know what's going to happen in the end is going to come around and I'd say these little merchants in 20% of that commercial niche, and in the end, we're all going to go down with dignity. And just one sentence to say. We do not protect workers by bans, but we fire workers, we do not protect workers or workers, we lose jobs, we do not protect workers or workers by bans, we take away their opportunity to feed their family. And therefore, gentlemen, let's ban the big centres and then let one of these laws be passed, but clearly that's not possible. Pay and it works, and it should be a basic principle, it's the only way to protect the dignity of anyone who lives from working in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78348	Thank you. At 10:42, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. And we have corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78349	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain incorrectly and abusively said that Sunday's the kind of thing that pops and sells this country. They are not the fathers of fellow Cain; they do not sell the land, but they are the priests who do the service of God, preach love and union, unlike you where you strike where you reach and whom you reach and invite into the forest. Get out of that forest for a change, go to Jamba and he called yesterday for a mandarin. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78350	And Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, correction. Nothing, he's giving up. Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, and I'm sorry, Mr. Shucker, here you go. I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Cain gave an election speech, but in election speeches, it's not good to give some facts that are not true but have neither the truth nor the truth. My colleague Caine received a report on the implementation of the state budget for the first six months, so we would see what it would mean to you, that what you said was true is that VAT collection is only 50%. Therefore, do not say anything that simply does not stand, which is not true because the presentation of such untruths in the congregation can certainly reflect negatively which you are allegedly defending. And secondly, Croatia is not in front of bankruptcy. What you and some of you are talking about are stories for little children, look at you, you often like to call on Italy, look at your situation in Italy without talking about Greece and anyone else. But obviously, you regret that the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia is stable and that Croatia goes far better in this situation than others. But it's not your grief that's my fault, it's your fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78352	We have one injury, Mr. Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78353	I'm not sorry if the Croatian financial sector is stable, but you and I would be very happy to change for
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78354	What's hurt? What article was injured? ... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78355	... But I know that the VAT bill is that it can't be 50% because then we'd really be in a lot of trouble, but I'm reading the paper's 50 percent lower VAT billing... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Maybe the items of the budget in this assembly, Maric, and maybe I know them best. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78356	Now this one, if 214 is injured, then you've hurt him, especially item 4 that says he's reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he's starting to talk about something else. So let's not do that, let's just give this a little bit more time that we have left to serve unmoderately, at least, if we were to, unmoderately, this table. I suppose Mr. Shucker had the same observation. ... That's why he's retreating, here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on. So we'll start an individual discussion. First is Mr. Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78357	So, the Honorable President, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Trade are aimed at developing an activity that is faced day by day with increasing competition and the challenges that this competition is facing. It is certain that trade is extremely important in Croatia as a tourist country and therefore has one of the key roles in the economy, but also responsibility on both local and global market scenes. Many administrative procedures are simplified by this amendment and by supplementing the law, which in any case is positive in this law. The major media dust in amending this law has raised the harmonisation of the labour-time law with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 19 June 2009. Surely it would have been better if the big media dust had raised and all those shops were publicly marked and all those trade chains that cut workers when they work in these shops on Sundays, on working days, holidays, etc., and unfortunately there are many and it would have been good for the media to raise and publicly name and label both such traders and such shops and such chains, which today unfortunately still deprive many traders who are working and those days when most Croatian citizens are resting. However, the Constitutional Court has confirmed that the trader independently determines the working time of the store, taking into account the needs of the customer, then the number of employees, respect the rights of the employees established by the Labour Act, the collective contract, the agreement between employers and the Working Council and the Labour Contract, and that with regard to wages, working hours, overtime and redeployed working hours, and breaks and holidays during the day or during the weeks or annual vacation. As far as holidays, memorials and unworkable days are concerned, this right is governed by the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, and from which it comes that in the days of the holiday shop I cannot work. Unfortunately, we have, we have a situation, we have a fact, we're witnessing ourselves, that part of the store works and just on those days. Although individuals are publicly calling the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not calling but calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let us also here in the Assembly not respect the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly unacceptable for both the Government and us because Croatia is a legal state in which all the regulations of the Republic of Croatia must be respected, the law and then, normally, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is there are different solutions to trade in the world. In the U.S., time-determining has been left to merchants. In Europe, where we have heard about it, but surely in Europe those countries that are touristic mean tourism countries adapt their trade to the needs of the tourist season. And that's logical and most normal. And I don't think anyone who speaks against it understands how in principle tourist countries should be arranged. The fact is that most store employees are women's populations, which is certainly a fact that makes motherhood more difficult and the role of the main pillar of each family. I believe that everyone would be happy and it would be best if women didn't have to work but could only take care of their family, but unfortunately it's not. Therefore labour inspections and trade unions and working councils must be aware of their responsibilities in protecting the rights of employees from those employers, who wish to use their workers or workers in trade, in particular as regards paying their working hours. The increasing responsibility for the operation of trade and the general activities of trade must be assumed by the local and regional communities on whose territory they work and operate, as well as trade and trade chains. In the end, I believe that every professional invitation carries its own work obligation and responsibility, and so on, the question of when it will work and means working time. Surely today in Croatia we have many professions that, because of their professionalism and responsibility, cannot and must not bid on their working hours and when they will not, and there have been talks in these discussions, so I do not have to mention these professions here in particular. But the most important thing is that the matter of working time is not misused that there are those who do not pay time at work either overtime or work at night, work on Sundays or holidays, and such employers who abuse freedom of choice of working time, non-payment, non-compliance with the rules of the law need to be severely sanctioned. And I think that's the point. It's not the point of creating a fam that maybe traders don't want to work on holidays, don't want to work on Sundays, don't want to work on afternoons or evenings, it's incorrect, they want to be paid honestly for their work. And there's the point of everything and if they were paid fairly then it wouldn't be a question of what normally certain trade unions instead of having implemented union actions, to oppose these employers who don't pay their workers they're going to seek amendments to certain laws. But I call on them to stand up to employers in this regard, and in this it is a great role and responsibility, as I have said from labour inspections, protection at work, union commissioners, presidents of the working council, and to the worker himself who must report such and any abuse of the employer. It is clear to me that workers are afraid to report it, because they will be marked in fact, and later they will suffer the consequences, but they should in some way establish the possibility that they are anonymously reporting and inspections should go to any such anonymous application and testify whether it is true even though there are so many mechanisms that it can be checked and that it is really a lot to see whether these workers are paid or not paid and when they work and whether they work in those days, those times when they should not work without being paid for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78358	Thank you. We have replicas. First, she's Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78359	Mr. Kunst came forward for a whole other reason after you said women shouldn't have to work but to take care of their families. I hope it was some lapus, and you haven't been able to explain enough what you wanted to say with that statement, I don't think it's standing, so you'll probably in response to the replica answer me what you meant by that. By the way, I called to say I welcome the Constitutional Court's decision because I remember 2009. Years before the local elections when we passed this Law on trade in working time where I personally advocated that local administration and self-government would be the one to determine working time, not the law on trade, and then we had bad effects in the tourist season, it was determined that working hours until 9:00 p.m. which was absolutely unacceptable, especially for tourist resorts where at 9 p.m., tourists and everyone else were on the beach, and then we tried to oppose it personally myself and I failed and I am glad that the Constitutional Court's decision went in this direction. I understand that trade chains have often been able to abuse workers and I understand that it was one of the most important reasons why we banned work on Sundays etc., but now it is laid down by law mentioned, holidayed and unworkable days, and I believe that this amendment of the Law is very good and I really welcome it and I believe that it will welcome everyone, especially the inhabitants of those parts of Croatia who deal with tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78360	Thank you. Answer Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78361	Thank you very much. You see, when I said it would be for sure best if women didn't have to work if they could commit themselves and take over that role of the main pillar of the family, I was just thinking that in that rising media dust, especially around the arrangements of working time, women are the most mentioned, which is the fact that women make up the largest population that works in the store. The Committee of the Croatian Bishops' Conference, who publicly said: "The proposed governmental changes are also a blow to the family, workers in trade are in a fertilised age, Croatia is certainly not a measure in the depopulation of this measure in favour of raising the birthright but on the contrary." And in the mass of examples it was mentioned that in principle these women are most affected by how they are affected by the consequences I conclude that it would certainly be best for those who could normally live like that not to work but to devote themselves to their family and to be bearers of pillars and development and birth, etc. It was basically what I wanted to say in this part of which you called me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78362	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78363	Mr. President, I'd like a little deeper to talk about something that my colleague Kunst actually started when he was talking about local and regional self-government that should play a more active role in determining working time. In fact, it is quite certain that this constitutional change ensures another approach to working time in certain parts of Croatia and that this can be adapted primarily to the economy which, in this case, is already said in the previous replica, is extremely important for tourism to simply trade chains and all those dealing with trade adapt to what is happening during the season. So I think that this role of local and regional self-government should be much more important, because of course they know best how and in what way in their field to settle this issue and how to respond to the needs of those who come to these tourist destinations, because you simply have a situation that in certain tourist destinations you actually have twice as many people during the season as the residents do. Therefore, it is absolutely certain that this should be adapted significantly, and that in this adjustment other than the traders themselves, who certainly know best when their interest is at work for which period and for how long, in any case, it is necessary to comply with local and regional self-government in order to have a more significant impact on economic developments in local self-government units themselves. First of all, I think of these tourist destinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78364	Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78365	Thank you very much. My colleague, you're absolutely right. Well, it's really inappropriate, and it's right in the middle of the tourist season and that place, I've witnessed myself, who closes their shops somewhere at 10, 11 o'clock, just when those tourists who are there are leaving the hotel and going to town when they could spend that money, buy something, simply if the time isn't good, and then these people are basically noiseing right into bigger centers, cities, etc. It is inappropriate for a local self - government unit to shut up and pretend to be silent and blind, and in principle, the money slips out of her hands for, say, 10 or 11 o'clock in the evening. That is why it is also the greatest responsibility and I believe that it should continue to be the greatest responsibility of the very territory on which these trades and the poisoning chains work, etc. to adapt that time to the needs and logically those tourists who are there and thus earn money. Well, Croatia is a tourist country, we should not run away from it, we know that it is one of our basic economic branches, and then we will not cut it with scissors but rather develop it and make as well as other European countries and they are adapting their working time to trade just in the course of the tourist season in the way they think best how they will earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78366	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Today we have amendments and additions to the Law on Trade and therefore I will say a few words and, of course, my opinion also what and how should be arranged especially here were the words regarding the continental part, therefore not exclusively tourist destinations. Trade is an important economic activity and plays a key role in the economy, regardless of all the other activities, trade is also very important. The questionable fact is that this activity is also faced with major challenges on the market, competition and everything else that is naturally exposed and remains an activity not only of trade. As regards the institutional arrangement of the activity of trade, it was arranged twice in 2008, so it was completed compared to all those amendments and additions to the laws previously made. It is also important to say here that the activity of trade could also be carried out in sales facilities where the trade has already been, where minimum technical conditions have already been issued and therefore these amendments and additions of this law allow for these same facilities to continue the activity of trade, which I certainly welcome and what is good. In this way, the implementation of a comprehensive consent procedure, the fulfilment of the conditions for small retail trade in major building area stores, as well as any administrative actions which should be approved by additional minimum conditions, would definitely require a waste of time and certainly financial costs. In fact, in the case of a retail sale outside the store in these amendments and additions to the new law, it has been said that sales will also be able to take place in the premises of cultural, sacral, educational and pedagogical, scientific and public institutions. It was also here today in this debate that individual colleagues were told that this might be questionable and that they were wondering what would be sold in these same shops. I don't know in schools, in health institutions, so I'm sure these changes and additions of this law, and the law itself will say that in these very areas the goods that these customers need will be sold. If at the same time such shops are located in schools, of course they will not be sold there, I don't know pornographic or anything else, but only goods that are needed by those users, while at the same time being within their reach. We are witnessing that right now in certain schools, children run across the road to buy a sandwich in what way, they can buy the most common supplies they need at that time. Therefore, by amending and supplementing this law, the opening of shops in such institutions will just avoid any unforeseen possibilities or God forbid any traffic accidents, as children will no longer be exposed and will not have to leave their facilities, but will just get close to the supply of goods they need at the time. Furthermore, when we talk about the terms of who and how can work in trade, this law has indeed allowed one liberal to say so to the diploma of each individual, where it is said that the minimum conditions are that each seller must have at least three years of secondary education or four years of direction, which is in any case well behind this seller, certainly also for a manager who runs a particular facility or those workers who deal with the agreement of goods in the warehouse and in the policy. Also, here today it was said about working time, that it was determined by local self-government, and I think that's exactly what my colleague Vinkovic was talking about, but I would supplement it here, I won't say correct, that city councils are the ones who make decisions on working time. But at the same time, it is not necessary to wait because it is sufficient that, once in the course of the year, or perhaps in the current year, we make a decision on the council in which certain trades will operate and that decision is valid for any new request from any company that is being sent, and the mayor himself, on the basis of the city council who made such a decision, gives essentially consent and signs approval to any new request. Therefore, it is not necessary to convene the city council every time, but that the mayor may, on the basis of one decision, act on any other request. It was also said here that many shops work on Christmas, Easter and other holidays, but I would certainly correct here that it is not true because just by passing the law that we passed in 2008 it is said that only trades cannot work on holidays, and holidays we know what they are, and when you mention Christmas and Easter then it is safe not to work on holidays. But at the same time as we talk about working time on Sundays, then I am certainly the same supporter who would say that I do not agree that trade should work throughout Croatia on a continental scale. Likewise, when we talk about trades in those parts where really those environments deal with tourism can't be the same. Why does a mother have to or when we're talking about women here, work on Sundays? So we really live in one Catholic country and every single person, and we are Catholics, has a duty and wants to go to church and elsewhere, and at the same time has to work on Sundays. All the employers who come, and especially big trade chains, don't choose funds and just want our workers to work up to 24 hours. And I'm against it because it only comes down to one thing: capital, capital, capital. Why? It must be possible for each person to be entitled to one day in a week of rest, while at the same time in those environments where it is said three, four months, let them be allowed to work in those months of trade, but at the same time not to work overtime, but to hire the other persons for overtime hours, and thus we will reduce the number of unemployed at the office. And so I also adhere to this idea, but we have also passed such a law that has experienced changes and additions, and it is said that it can't do that, but I am sure that this way would allow all those, and it takes them to have a day of rest that will dedicate to their family, a shared lunch or all of the activities that I have stated, so whoever wants to rest their soul in one way or another. As for all of this, all these amendments and additions to this law, I support them, but I am sure that there will be time for the future, and certainly also a suggestion that perhaps in this law, certain amendments and additions to this law will also be complemented on all these shortcomings that we have pointed out today. But of course, what I'm proposing today, and I'm sure it will contribute to one improvement, and I'm sure we'll contribute to these changes and additions to the development of the economy itself through trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78368	Thank you. We have replicas. Mr. Davor Huška, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78369	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lucic, I sign all of this, of course, but I would like to touch one part of this law that you mentioned on the Committee on the Economy, at this point you did not mention it, and it is quite interesting and important, especially for local self-government units. It is about mobile shops, about the ambulatory sale, meaning one unfair competition that arises, selling from some ravine trucks, vehicles in settlements, in villages, in parts of cities where there are arranged, organised, solid shops, shops with all the conditions necessary to carry out commercial activity. It is good that this part of the law is also brought down to local self-government, under the authority of local self-government, and I think we will have to make some moves and we leaders in cities, municipalities to prevent this unfair competition. But, of course, it's a difference to buy some ravine truck and sell goods or under all conditions that are not simple and cheap to arrange a decent shopping place, a decent shop and sell goods in it. The second thing I wanted to mention here, take advantage of the opportunity to express my opinion, is the experience of doing trade on Sundays. People, let's remember not so long ago the Yugoslav communist dictatorship here and in our Croatia, so no store worked on Sundays and we kept quiet and, of course, we bought on Saturdays and over Sundays, the trades didn't work on Sundays. We are now spreading a really wide liberalisation in work on Sundays and I don't think it's good for the people of the Republic of Croatia. More, traveling not once from Western Europe, Austria, Slovenia, but on Saturday afternoon, let alone on Sundays it is simply not possible to find an open store, buy some supplies, possibly gifts when we return from the official or private road from the Western countries, and here we seem to be making up hot water or going to the hands of extra profit and large merchants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78370	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78371	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague exactly your opinion, but I just couldn't touch everything these few minutes, but certainly I was just arguing at the club that the moving sales must be arranged in exactly one way, and in these amendments and additions it was just said that so far it has not been decoded. It was a little bit like this, a little bit like that, and that's where there was a mix-up on the market. Namely, which sale is it? It's a moving sale in small places where many employers have started selling just like that today. And it's certain that as a local self-government, since I'm also the mayor of the town of Pleternica, we won't let moving sales take place in those places where we have fixed stores. It can't happen because these fixed stores will disappear, and then we know what that means. Because the moving sale comes in the morning, it goes through the place, it's five minutes, ten minutes, and at the same time if we know that we have a fixed store that will work until noon and afternoon, and certainly these changes and additions in this law are absolutely good because local self-government will determine who can't, who can't. True, there are certain penalties that we will have to use to remove certain people or sellers from the market and not to make a mess. When it comes to working on Sundays, I also talked about it. Well, it's absurd that our stores work on Sundays, but I'd say at the same time, so it's just become a habit of why a man has to go to the store on Sundays. Which doesn't go Saturday night, this morning. At the same time, trade chains in Austria, Germany, up to half past six, six hours are closed. And all those who came to Croatia today would like to work on this Croatian people for 24 hours. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78372	Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78373	Here's my esteemed colleague Franjo, I just thought you'd be against this law, because this law makes it possible to work on Sundays and work on holidays. And I hope you're right over there in the Pleternica that all those merchants and merchants, that is, workers and workers who work in those shops, I hope you haven't heard what you said you weren't doing on Christmas and holidays, on Easter. Well, I'll remind you. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2004. At that time, the President of the Constitutional Court was Mr. Petar Klaric, where he mentioned that this is exactly what you and I are up for, including the Croatian Bishop's Conference, I think all trade unions are in favour of the day off and it's Sunday. Except in this case the HDZ and now the SDP and coalitions whose law disturbs are solely pornographic content. So here it writes, among other things, on the basis of everything that I am exposed to not reading all of this, the Constitutional Court concludes that in order to protect workers on Sunday as a day of weekly rest, it is detailedly arranged by international contracts that bind the Republic of Croatia by law and collective agreement which must be applied to all employees in trade. Therefore, one constitutional decision by the legislator simply considers the Constitutional Court's decision to be a toilet paper. Here is the decision of the Constitutional Court, and this decision was primarily about the work of retail trade and the work of trade on a large scale where the Constitutional Court says that traders have the same right in the territory of Croatia. But they don't question Sundays and work on holidays, unlike the others, but also this 2009 decision. The Constitutional Court itself says, says the legislator did not explain why Sundays and holidays should not be done One more sentence. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Here is also the Constitutional Court mentions the Treaty of the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See, which says that the days of the week and the next feasts are not working, so it lists them. Among other things, the Great and Little Lady, the Body, Christmas, Easter, etc. and the contracting parties will agree on possible changes in the days. So, this law annuls, gentlemen of the State Secretary, cancels the Treaty with the Holy Table. Well, here's what I'm appealing to you again, not to do stupid things, but to have the law go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78374	Thank you. Double time was spent for, and I even warned my colleagues that you were speaking and that they had to listen. Answer Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78375	Thank you very much. My colleague, I was just in my presentation and I said that I too, and not only me but my party, the Croatian Democratic Community, so we passed the law not to work on Sundays. But the Constitutional Court annulled it. Well, look, I'm not the one who's going to tell you what the Constitutional Court is going to do and when it's going to bring new rules and laws. But at the same time, I remind you once again that the law that we've passed right here in Parliament that the holidays aren't working you can't convince me and say that it's working on Easter, on Christmas. It's not working. It's not working because the law is just saying that on such big holidays, so what am I going to ask, so I know, I see that the big holiday shops aren't working. They're not working. So let's not talk about something here right now I don't know political. True, we'd like to do the best we can. But once again, I am opposed to particularly large trade chains that ask the Croatian people to work up to 24 hours which is certainly not right, while at the same time they do not conduct such a trade in their countries. And many shops are closed. But these amendments and additions to this law are just allowing for the repair of what we may not have done well, which we couldn't predict in 2008 must have been corrected today, and I'm sure it will bring as I said prosperity to trade, and how trade then and certainly the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78376	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78377	Well, I'd like you to make it clear to me, Mr. President, that the Rules of Procedure didn't determine this question. I'll object, but I'll raise my hand for it. Can you explain it to me as President of the Parliament? I mean, I didn't understand the counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78378	In life and in political practice, it has happened many times that man has an opinion that he does not stand behind. So don't blame anyone in this regard, because it's more or less flexible and let's not be so petty about it. I don't have these, I'm not much of an expert on the Rules of Procedure, but I do try to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. And now they will use their ten minutes or less Mr. Dragutin Lesar. I recommend that it always be smaller, and no replicas, because each replica was, twice replicated, two answers, that's four.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that the amount of debate in the Croatian Parliament on working time in shops compared to other activities has already become distasteful. The Croatian Parliament rules and prohibits the Constitutional Court from making decisions and abolishing the same laws or parts of the law that the Croatian Parliament has passed, and thus we have been playing ping pong for 8 years. And now these amendments to the law have been initiated by a constitutional court decision, although when the law was discussed in the Assembly, there were some of us who warned that these provisions would be declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. Yet the ruling majority passed the law. It may happen that the third, fourth, sixth time you did it, because that law and voting in the Assembly was meant as an excuse, as an alibi for certain public pressures, certain lobbies, so you could now pronounce yourself by the Constitutional Court's decision that you wanted to do something, but there was a constitutional court of shame that abolished that very good and smart decision of yours, and you knew that it would end it, as it did before, as it will always end when such stupid regulations were made. What makes this trade the only activity in this country in which the Assembly would regulate working hours by law? Why doesn't anyone come up with the idea that we can regulate trade hours, catering, cafes, flower shops, just shops? No other area is regulated by law other than trade. It's not legal. ... Wait your turn, and then show the anxiety. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Trade is the last activity in Croatia that has entered free sphere without the preparation of what is called collective agreements, because most of the other activities that have been working on holidays and Sundays since they exist have collective agreements or internal regulations that regulate the font of hours, changeability, payment and position of employees in these activities, and the trade has welcomed this area completely unprepared. That's one reason. Second, in this bile debate, religious issues, religious, religious, religious confessions to church communities have been used as arguments so far, and even one colleague said that Croatia is a Catholic state. As far as I know by the Constitution, we are a secular state, and in this country live and non-Catholic citizens, whose day of celebration is not Sunday, but another day, we are the Croatian Parliament, and we must take care of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia equally if we introduce the question of faith as the main argument. But this law won't solve anything, it won't help anyone except those who use 100,000 employees in the store to make huge profits. By the way, which means the legal provisions that no one controls is the one where you have now prescribed that those who sell technical products, cars, motor vehicles, other vehicles must provide spare parts of the service. How long has the state inspectorate imposed penalties on a trader who hasn't replaced the wrong product he sold? Do you know that they do not want to replace products, but they refer customers to services and repairers. Because no one has yet paid the penalty in Croatia for it, because this culture and the obligation to replace products, and even the right of consumers to return the product without reason, we have not introduced it, because no one controls it. According to the number of inhabitants, Croatia has probably the largest number of inspectors with the lowest... Because we broke them into a large number of inspection services, left them in the field even without a car most often so that they could go out on the ground, and therefore these protective mechanisms of the law cannot be implemented because there is no one to monitor or punish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, Sunday was said to be a week's work. If you show me a provision of the Labour Act which says that in Croatia it is Sunday of the week vacation, I will publicly admit that I do not know how to read the law, because such provisions in the Labour Act do not exist in Croatia. Unfortunately. Because this Parliament refused my amendment to write it that way. So what's the problem? We refer to other countries where stores don't work after 19 hours, on holidays, on Sundays, why? Is it because of the legal regulations or something? Because of something else, and something else is called collective agreements, because by stimulating employers and trade unions, they left this area to collective agreements, and in the law prescribed that the right to introduce night labor, work on Sundays, holidays and days of work only those employers, companies, companies that have the issue regulated in the collective contract. And then they went a little step further and they prescribed mandatory content of the collective agreement and, among other things, the obligation to determine the height of the increased salary for such work, the second mandatory exchangeability of employees working on those days on Sundays, nights, the restriction that one employee may not work more than 10 weeks in the calendar year, not more than two holidays in one calendar year, and that the week of rest must take advantage of the no later than 3 days of that work that he had if it was a day off by law. And of course the height of increased wages for such work is such that employers and owners for economic reasons are not paid to work at that time at that time and that is why they do not work there. And in Croatia and in the Labour Act we have no regulation that Sunday is a week's vacation, we do not have a provision on mandatory content of collective agreements, we do not have a provision on the obligation or the possibility to introduce such work if it is regulated by a collective contract and therefore is on the harvest stage. Most of the shop workers, Mr. Secretary of State, are registered at four o'clock, working 220 hours a month, most of them are registered on minimum wage, and also at the time of this law's entry into force, and you today who claim that there is no small difference on Sundays. So, even in the days when the law forbidded trade to work on Sundays, and especially women, they also worked on Sundays. Although trade was not open, they had to carry out inventory on Sundays, stacking goods on shelves, cleaning, price changes and all those preparations, the technical part of the work in locked facilities. So, even when there was a legal ban on trade on holidays and Sundays not to work employees in stores worked and did not get paid, they had no right to free days, they did not receive an increased salary because they also found a hole in the law because the law said that trade should not work, not that employees should not work. It's just proof that in the executive power, Mr. Secretary of State, go back to the system of collective agreements. Here are your Slovenian neighbors, see how they handled it nicely through collective agreements. Don't write these laws anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78380	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78381	Thank you very much. So here I am correcting my colleague, Lesar, that in my debate I said exactly that Croatia is a Catholic country. Mr. Lesar if citizens on the census have declared 88 or 90% as Catholics, or perhaps even more, then it gives me the right to say that this is a Catholic country without insulting any other man who is another religion, respecting him, but at the same time I cannot afford, regardless of what you call to the Constitution, to say that Croatia is a secular country. First of all, I thought it was Catholic, and I'm sure it is. ... No, no, I respect the Constitution, but I also respect people who have come to terms with who they are and what they are. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, you who do not, of course, mind you, and I say that Croatia is certainly a Catholic country based on people who have declared themselves in the census where and to whom they belong. Therefore, do not speak differently. You would be happy to change that too, but obviously you won't be able to because the people know who he is and what he is, and individuals like you who don't belong to it are sure that you will represent that the state of Croatia is a secular country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78382	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78383	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, I'm in my debate, he's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78384	No, no, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78385	209, I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78386	That universal article.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78387	So, the only thing I mentioned to my colleague was the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly defined Croatia's status as a secular state. He's been eating at my expense saying a series of insults, accusing me of not respecting the belongings of different religious communities and that I want to change it I don't know how. We're MPs, I remind you that every MP has sworn to uphold the Constitution. The attack on me only because I have warned of the provisions of the Constitution and on the religious basis which he has now made, if it is not for a warning I really do not know what the parliamentary representative must or has the right to call upon when he warns of the constitutional values of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78388	So, if we call on the Constitution, then we also refer to constitutional principles and constitutional norms. One of the constitutional principles, which is contained in the norm, is freedom of religion. So we all have the right to believe, not to believe, to believe, to believe, to believe, that's our thing. Therefore, there should be a complex view of constitutional provisions that do not restrict anyone in this respect, only I did not understand that Mr Lucic wanted something special to offend but warned of one information from the census. Even so, he could appeal to the Constitution regarding freedom of religion. So, what does freedom of religion mean? This means that in every aspect of the citizens' behaviour must be in accordance with the Constitution, including, I look at it, I do not see here any particular intention that Mr. Lucic is insulting or similar to that of calling on some official information, etc., is legitimate. Now who's going to draw a conclusion from that? I don't know. We've got another injury, and you're giving up. So let's not always look for some... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78389	Mr. President, I won't make this difficult. I kindly ask you to read the phonogram correcting the incorrect quote of your colleagues and then decide whether he has referred insults to my account and deserved a reminder. Read the phonogram and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78390	I'll read the phonogram anyway. I usually read phonograms, especially if I didn't understand some of these inspired discussions, then I read it later because I didn't get it enough, did I? Then he'll correct Mr. Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78391	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Lesar said no activity in Croatia was prescribed under the law. It is indeed a miracle that you sit in this House too long before you have learned it. Based on the Household Activity Act is prescribed working hours for cafes, restaurants, disco clubs, means you're wrong. You said no law prescribed a working time for any other activity. But the rule of hospitality is fine writing until when coffee shops, restaurants, disco clubs, etc. can work. So you're wrong, you're cheating on the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78392	Correction. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78393	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in his debate, counterpart Lesar said that those who advocate the ban on working on Sundays in shops do so for religious reasons and that Croatia is not a Catholic country. This is both incorrect, because I can say on behalf of the HSS Club and I think I have made it clear that we are in favour of banning work on Sundays in shops because we advocate to protect the human dignity of workers and workers but also to protect their human right to rest and to the family. And colleague Lesar Croatia is a majority Catholic country, it is... on Christian civilization and tradition and me sometimes these discussions that we hear here remind us of those thesiss we could recently hear. In France live French, in Germany live Germans, in Italy Italians and in Croatia live citizens and citizens. No, Croatians and Croats also live in Croatia. Croatia is also a Catholic country as much as some try to explain that it is quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78394	Thank you. Let's move on. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78395	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, when such discussions are being held, then individual MPs and MPs are trying to impose topics that are not actually the essence of the law. Here we are now hearing about whether someone should work on Sundays or not because Croatia is a Catholic country or not. It doesn't matter why 100,000 people who work next to the store on Sundays would be discriminated against. So we don't solve the question of the law in some activity or some business whether it can be done on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, but we do it with certain legal proposals that regulate the field of work and that protects the dignity of workers, workers and all those who should be protected from being exploited by employers if they have needs and do not do those things and fulfil the obligations they should have with them. Were there any violations of the labour law. Well, look, I've been following the work of the State Inspectorate, but I haven't noticed in the public too much activity and closing trade and in some way punishing certain chains, and everyone here is saying that the workers in the store are discriminated against doing a lot of work, etc., maybe so, but then why doesn't the State Inspectorate do its job, why doesn't he shut down such stores, why doesn't he give millions of fines to those employers who violate labour rights. So it's not a question of whether we're going to settle something by law, but whether the existing laws in Croatia apply, whether certain services are conducted and handled or not. My opinion is that this is not how it is handled, that the controls are very bad, I am personally once while the Law which regulated that Sundays cannot work, at a shopping mall in Zagreb saw, that although closed the store but inside I saw certain activity, then I wondered what it was about. One big store that employs tens of thousands of people had obviously some business activity inside, and it was probably an inventory or it was cleaning up the store, because they couldn't have an open store on Sundays but they used it to call it free time that we as a law provided those workers, that these same workers and workers were doing inventory, preparing the store, etc., so the law did nothing. And now, unfortunately, I have to appeal to Mr. President's remarks here that very often in the HDZ Club, people do not stand by. Look, two years ago, I listened to a lot of HDZ representatives debates when they discussed this law that spoke diametrically the opposite of what they're saying today, then they didn't mention the tourist country, they didn't mention the competition, and that we had to adapt to the situation on the market, but they defended that on Sundays and that trade should be regulated as the former Law did. So as it is possible that, in a year and a half, such an opinion will change in a diametric way unless this situation is said by Mr. President, which is that it often seems to be with some MPs in this House, the opinion does not stand behind that stance that defends itself. It is not good, you have to work in a way that what you believe you represent and then the laws can absolutely be more quality than they are and there is no need for only a year and a half, two, to be changed and that the Constitutional Court must correct certain provisions that the Assembly has made and which do not comply with the Constitution itself. So absolutely that the store needs to protect workers and workers, it needs to protect people that their rights prescribed by the Labour Act are respected, that they are entitled to the day of rest, that they are entitled to every overtime, that they do not work more than 40 hours overtime per month, which is the upper limit prescribed by the law, but you do not provide this by the law on trade not by the law on labour, collective contracts and you ensure the effective work of the state inspectorate that I have said does not work on that matter almost anything. I didn't see any cases pointed out in public and closed down some store. As regards the other provisions of this Act, I absolutely welcome the changes that are going towards facilitating business activity that, if the owner changes that he does not have to re-currence, I support the provisions that allow for some who have a certain commercial activity so that retailing can also be made much simpler, if it comes to retailing, so anything that goes to facilitate business is not controversial and should be supported. What I don't think is good in this law is primarily a restriction for certain jobs of professional training and equating the issue of trades and companies. I'll tell you a specific case. How many of us have rural economies, wine cellars and certain things where certain commercial activities are being held and where people are craftsmen who are registered for certain production, selling certain services etc., who do not have secondary schools. And what happens now? In some agricultural holding where someone sold their cheese, cream, etc. also had a certain tourist activity. They're usually and often older people, maybe some of them didn't even go to high school. They will not now be able to make the sale unless they employ another person with the SSS to do so. I don't think a trade of such activities can be equated in this way with companies and I don't think that's good, that it will lead to certain increases in the costs of these let's say by the craftsman and that ultimately it will not achieve the purpose that the law has prescribed. I don't think it's crucial that some people who deal with agriculture have a high school so they can sell their cheese that they produce and sell to tourists who visit them in their farm. So it definitely doesn't have to stand in the law and I'm against that principle. As far as craftsmen are concerned, this is absolutely one measure that will further complicate their business. In addition, of course, it is not a question of this law, but they need to be helped and increased the border of VAT entry to at least 200 thousand kunas, meaning that it is easier for them to do business without having the problems they have today, which is that quite often they cannot even carry out certain tax obligations because the tax pressures them, and they cannot even charge their services. So we have to make it easier for the craftsmen who suffered the most during this crisis so they can work easier, and here, by one administrative provision, we're essentially limiting them. And another thing that's stuck in my eye and I can't believe that's the biggest problem with the Law on Trade, which is that criminal responsibility is being imposed for those who sell out in the open. A lot of these people, unfortunately, in trouble, we also see around the market when we go to the market. They're people who don't have money, who get along the way they do. Of course, I don't advocate that it's allowed to be a mess on the market, but just to increase criminal responsibility with fines from 5 to 15 thousand kunas punishing the most of these people doesn't sound very logical to me. So it is essentially one of the biggest problems of trade in Croatia under this law. Whether someone who is without income, who is managing, who wants to earn several hundred kunas, to sell something that can buy bread tomorrow and milk will now be highlighted in this law as one of the main causes of the problem in trade and there will only be a drastic increase from 5 to 15 thousand kuna. Of course it is not, of course, that these people are not working out to earn extra profits but to survive, but we have dealt with them in law as the biggest problem of trade activity in Croatia. And on the other hand, I say this where the law is broken at an unacceptable level, which is to violate labour rights, that inspectorate has done nothing, and the laws we have in Croatia absolutely meet the criteria and, if necessary, collective agreements in trade, these criteria can be even raised. But if there is no one to control them, if no one will punish them, if they will be allowed to do what they want, if the regulations are to be avoided, then no law will protect anyone or those people who work in the store. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78396	Thank you. We have two replicas and two corrections. First is the replica of Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78397	Comrade Maras, you have well noticed two basic problems of such laws, controls that are almost gone, sanctions that may be in place at the beginning when inspectors start to campaign surveillance followed by television cameras, photojournalists and someone from the government to prove how order will now be made. And if that surveillance, control and sanctioning were to go on a regular basis, we probably wouldn't have to pass laws like this. And then the third argument is used, which really saddens me, the question of religion, and they keep repeating the majority of the voter list. Well, of course that's true. But then I wonder how it's possible, what about 7. God's command, "Don't steal"? Then who steals this country? Who stole public companies, public institutions? Who built and developed a corrupt octopus? Are you saying that only agnostics or atheists steal in this country? Well, when we call on that as well, you have to take care of it and answer those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78398	Mr. Maras, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78399	Here's to calm down a little passion there. Mr. Shuker and Lesar obviously have something to discuss. Absolutely. I'm really always surprised by this initiative to get everything off the table and down to what it isn't. What does it have to do with how many believers, Catholics, etc. are in Croatia?? Does anyone work Sundays at the store? And why are people in ZET being discriminated against? Why does anyone even have to work? Well, you're using Mr. and Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, you're using the services someone has to do on Sundays. In HEP, in the water line, it means someone's working. Then why are these people being discriminated against? It has nothing to do with each other. Why does someone have to work in the E.R.? Here's where I see Dr. Milkovic milking his hands. Why does someone have to work in the E.R.? So, of course, society has certain needs, and Sundays, some jobs have to be done. It has nothing to do with the law and it has nothing to do with anything other than regulate the Labour Act when, who and how it must work and what its rights and obligations are. With the Law of Trade, it has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78400	We have another replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78401	Dear colleague, as far as I've heard the SDP's opinion, the SDP will pass a law like this no matter how much you object. The HDZ will also accept it. And for those of you who don't understand what the Constitution says, I invite them to at least read this consolidated text that is not read at all, so they will see that Croatia is indeed a secular state. Even Jesus said "to the emperor, the God of God" so read it a little bit. On the other hand, I'll just remind you that the essence of this law is not a technical condition, height and width of the door, the smallest conditions, that it's not this pornographic content, but it's just a working time. Working hours, especially working hours on Sundays and working hours for holidays. We Assembly representatives don't do holidays, and I said that when I was speaking for the club, every holiday we're at the family table. But I will read to you something that also says in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which in 2004, brought down this coalition regulation on the work of retail trade, more popular Fižulićev, which reads: "a worker has the right to a week's vacation on Sundays", it says in the Labour Act, the Croatian law not Albanian, for at least 24 hours uninterrupted. And if it is necessary to work on Sundays, it applies to officers, to emergency services, to all others who have to work Sundays, fortunately I believe that traders do not have to work on Sundays and do not have to work on Sundays, it must be ensured for each working week a day of rest in a period determined in a collective contract, an agreement concluded between a working council, an employer or a working contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78402	Thank you. Good Replication You'll get a chance, there's more for replicas. [[Intruder Vinkovic: And only one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78403	That's why they're... and I think it's important to say, especially the Social Democratic Party, in Chicago on May 1st 1886 just for 8+8+8 and on Sunday's day off. [[You don't understand.]] May 1st as an international labour holiday begins to be celebrated since 1889. You and the Croatian Democratic Community should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78404	Thank you. Everyone, everyone, but you shouldn't be pessimistic, you should watch this, something Mr. Lesar was talking about sins and what I know. He's a little pessimistic. Let's say I believe in a little brighter future, namely, it's getting more and more sinless, so we'll solve it too. Here you go, sir. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78405	My colleague Vinkovic, you obviously didn't listen very well to what I was saying because why would I object to something if what I'm saying came true by this law. I don't know if you've noticed that Article 12 deletes these provisions that have been restrictive so far. So why would I be against it if I thought it was correct. The labour law regulates working relationships, and this is one and I absolutely don't think that we should single out a special activity as a trade where something special would be regulated except for what the Labour Act defined, and we have standards that we set quite high. There's still room to advance and protect the workers, I don't think it's ever too much to protect people who live from their work. But I don't see why you'd be against a law that defines what I insisted on in my debate. I don't suppose there's a representative like that who'll be against what he stands for, except when Mr. Bebić's case is in action, which is that sometimes you don't stand behind your opinion, but that's not who I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78406	Thank you. Don't talk about who's not here. We've got two corrections yet. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78407	I'm correcting a colleague of Maras who said that all employees are being discriminated against on Sundays. I say they're not, especially those who have to work Sundays, and you can't say they don't have to work people in the hospital, so doctors, nurses, police. Well, it's simply impossible that such institutions don't work, but at the same time they're being discriminated against at the store if they work on Sundays, and we're here saying they shouldn't work on Sundays. That's right. When you talk about inventory, the inventory is once a year. If you agree with the employees that day is an inventory, even if it was Sunday, then it's their consent, and that doesn't mean they're forced to work. And when you talk about activity, so this law is just saying that everything found is being recognised. One who does not have a qualification will not shut down the activity but will continue it because this law is legalizing the founding state. So don't say anything that isn't, and I'll tell you one thing, behind all this stuff I've said here, I'm standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78408	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78409	It's standing. You don't have to stand, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78410	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, in what?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78411	214, Mr. Representative said something I didn't say. I didn't say that these were discriminated against, but that if the law was passed...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78412	It's not, Your Honor, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78413	Yes, it is, because he corrected, excuse me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78414	Please, please. It's not an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78415	He fixed a colleague something...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78416	You want to correct his correction. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78417	No, no, can I just say what I'm saying without you assuming it. Can I say what I want without you assuming it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78418	But that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78419	But how do you know when you don't know what I'm gonna say?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78420	Well, you already said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78421	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78422	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78423	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78424	Thank you very much. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78425	Please, just let me tell you to the end. So the gentleman corrected an incorrect quote that wasn't in my speech at all, and he said that I was saying that they were discriminated against workers in hospitals, etc. I didn't say that. I said if this law were passed in this way that you proposed it in 2009 and it was passed, and today you're changing it, then you'd be discriminated against, just as I could say that Prime Minister Kosor was discriminated against because she's working on Sundays, laying rock foundations...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78426	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78427	Which doesn't need to lay them at all. So she also lays on Sunday's rock foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78428	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thank you very much, and I must give an explanation. ... No benching. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I must warn you immediately, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and simply use such an institution for false purposes. It's not okay, it's not okay. Let's do another correction, dear representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras said the State Inspectorate didn't do anything to protect the store workers, it's not exactly a colleague. The State Inspectorate is doing its job, but the simple situation on the ground is such that workers from certain major trade chains are afraid to address the State Inspectorate. They're talking to us, maybe to you. I have not long received one letter from our county where workers begin to work before the start of working hours, stay longer, cannot simply establish a union because their boss does not allow them, and simply do not have the instruments to reach the State Inspector. And here, you and we need to publicly invite all workers in such a situation that there are institutions in Croatia, that is the State Inspectorate to address in order to make order in the trade. And I thank you for supporting one of the important things in the pre-election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community, which is to increase the limit for entering the VAT system for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from 80,000 kuna to 170,000 kuna, so here we will have the opportunity to discuss it at the next session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78430	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Because of the frequent amendments to the Law on Human Trade, there are often times when we are discussing and these discussions are not clear. Namely, what's this about? It is simple that the Constitutional Court has again abolished those restrictive provisions which we have just because of the provisions of the clear Constitution and warned. However, the government has consciously opposed it. And for what? In order to please God not to protect workers because they are not protected from Monday to Saturday, but on Sunday that trade will not work. And it kind of abused her. I would even say church because mass, all those who go know they're from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. And there's no employer who uses workers so much that he's holding them so much. Therefore, this was not the real reason, but the real reason was how to court people, not protect workers. And now the Constitutional Court has abolished those provisions. But you don't care, the government doesn't care if it proposes against constitutional laws. And in such a way, I don't think there were any authorities in history, look who brought so many against constitutional, non-constitutional laws. In Croatia certainly so far, but I think that the Croatian candidate for the Guinness book is how many laws the Constitutional Court has abolished. And yet he has acted on 12 more of our demands in the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of certain laws. However, our position in the SDP, and mine myself, was perfectly clear, that workers should be protected every day, that human dignity does not exist only on Sunday, but that it exists continuously from his birth to his death and that no one can take it away but that it should be protected in this way. What way? That a worker is simply paid for his work, but not like this, that there is a fair pay for honest work. In this way, therefore, with these changes, it will be possible if everything remains as old as the employers, and in particular it is obvious in the store, but everywhere where women work, that more textile industry that has been destroyed is not mentioned. This exploitation of workers is particularly evident and particularly strong and powerful where there is a female labour force. And that's why you do it. Employers do what they can, some who are irresponsible, and most of them are so adapted to the situation that they behave as they can. That appeal to some mentality of theirs that went on many times by the government is ironic, because everyone acts the way he can behave. There's been a lot of talk and talk about inspections here. They're only one segment of the government. Therefore, the government has been irresponsible to workers and to their protection. How was the inspector enough when the stores had to lock down their shops, shops, when the law on amendments that you brought here did not work on Sundays and holidays came into effect. No one almost abused them, and whoever abused them was severely punished by those small shops. Then how was it, then, how was there enough inspectors? Therefore, it is only about the determination of the authorities and the responsibility of the ruling to fulfill their basic task, which is to protect the weakest, which are workers. But that protection doesn't come out of itself, not even the paper that's written in the Constitution. This stems from the nature of the government itself, about its political view of the role of labour and labour against capital, i.e. the owners of the capital. Why do I often use capital like it's some kind of force itself that no one alive can do anything or power, let alone work. There are capital owners and there are workers. When they and as long as they are said to be working and the worker is a cost, then the effort will be to make this exploitation maximum and to pay as little as possible to be constant and insatiable and that greed. And that greed has to end, and the state has all the mechanisms to do it. But simply her worldview must then be so and her commitment to stand aside in conflict with such a one between labour and capital. The employers know how to say we're the ones who hire you, we hire the workers. That's right. But all they had was created by a laborer's hand was that manual or it was intellectual. So, all those who rent labor and those who have created all their wealth based on just the excess because they have acquired their work, and they have not often paid the minimum. And the state here is declared weak, powerless, begging here and there, appeal, but that's not the role of the state. The state has all its mechanism to simply set things up to work like that. But what we're talking about. When we filed the Labour and Social Courts Act that Croatia needed, because the moment the employer came to the court within 7 days, if within a month it was a final decision, if it were a high penalty for what he did, he did not pay the worker, did not pay his salary, did not pay him overtime, paid him no work on Tuesdays and Fridays, and if he was promptly punished even more than the level of punishment to be punished quickly, then they would see that the state is serious. That is what our proposal for a law on labour and social courts with Slovenians and who have no such problem at all, that we are not talking about the countries of the European Union or that problem is reduced to the least possible. They've already passed this law on working and social courts on several occasions and changed it, but here we have submitted it long ago, it bears the code PZ 714, and today we're discussing bill 869. They get numbers as they arrive, so 150 and something, 157 laws is the Croatian Parliament, we discussed 157 laws, laws are passed, but not this one. What to talk about, and go back to what is the object itself which is concerned, so the female labour force that is frightened, whose employer tells you if you ask for your rights has who will work for those 2,000 kunas, about union organization hardly being able to speak at all or that they have the strength to organize themselves and trade union when fundamental rights cannot be realized. Some didn't even get paid, here's only now the government is going after so many years, and after the law of 2003 because we've been legalized to pay wages as a criminal offence, here's the government's only now dropping, but again it's talking about wages, so the question is how much pay the worker can't accept without the employer answering. I hope that changes in the KZ in the second reading will fix it, because it simply has to be fixed. So our principle is and our message is perfect, and my personal perfectly clear work but pay, but they won't pay if the state, if you have the strength of this bill to submit, then your strength in protecting workers must be at least double. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78432	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there was a whole series of incorrect allegations, but I don't have time, so I'll just have one. The colleague said that the ruling majority of the Croatian Parliament and the government abused the church by passing a law prohibiting Sundays. You're an incorrect colleague. This law has tried to protect the very family as the fundamental value of what is in our party's program, and it has tried to protect exactly the women you're talking about. I don't know if you're going to the store, I'm going, and before the law was passed, very often the women at the stores asked me when you would pass that law, if you would pass the law, they were satisfied, because they don't care if they were free any day, or if they're free on Sunday when the family is together. They do not care to be paid on that day, but to protect them from having to work that day, and if you loved the truth, you would mention that this is the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78434	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78435	She introduced labor courts, and she's in the existing Penal Code and that's in the existing one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78436	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78437	Penalty is a provision that can sanction non-payment of wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78438	Thank you very much. Please, let's all stick to the weather. And secondly, I will give you my word, but please, if there is an injury to the Rules of Procedure, if there is no, don't use it to answer the correcting of the incorrect quote. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78439	Well, here's the esteemed vice president, colleague Lovrin, injures our Rules of Procedure by the provision of Article 214 because she's replicated me, she's semi-limized, and she hasn't been correcting anything I've said, and what she's pollemized, she's wronged it. So this was a replica thing, and.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78440	Thank you very much. You will now have the opportunity to have 5 replicas, but at this point this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you the same as in the case of the previous, let's not use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to respond to the correction of the incorrect statement, because I will have to take your word for it. Now let's go five replicas. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78441	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, you have surgically established the motivation for which the law was passed for the first time, essentially because of the demagogue of the voter messages, not because of the essence, which is why you can see it. During the adoption of the first law, one amendment was accepted that souvenir shops, if trades are being worked and registered as souvenir shops so that they can work on Sundays, and then there were a dozen HDZ deputies who were also mayors of certain cities who had just used that opportunity and stimulated people in their midst to register as souvenir shops and that they would then be able to work, and that the city would also meet them, those who had raised their hands a few weeks before Sundays could not work, essentially used the possibility and directed people who were dealing with the trade to be essentially working on Sundays, and that is what was most tragic, and what President Bebic mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, it happens very often that when the ruling majority defends its laws behind that opinion, the attitude behind which they defend does not stand what they really think, but is used exclusively for certain purposes, which, of course, are neither regulated nor envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78442	Thank you. Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78443	Well, I think you may have guessed the taste of these objections, which one is the hypocrite. Now it is permitted, therefore, by this bill of law, to work on both Wednesdays and Fridays, both Christmas and Easter, and all national holidays, and all church holidays, hence their desire to abuse the church has led to this, and whatever hypocrisy we wanted the family to be at Sunday lunch, and did you please ensure that this worker gets paid and that he can afford Sunday lunch, because his Sunday lunch doesn't look like the one he buys every day or, that you should have thought about it, but now it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78444	Thank you very much. We have a replica, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78445	Thank you. I think, first of all, that this debate should all, that we should make an effort to dissidize it, try and deconfessionalize it, and talk about the essence. Well, the thing is that the area of work is compromised, we're not the only ones in the world in this, and the Spanish are paying today every Latino American who emigrated to the Spanish map the government pays to return to Guatemala, Mexico, Salvador to free up space for autochton's workforce, domestic. The problem is we're approaching 300 thousand unemployed. The area of work must be protected. Well, my colleague said the one who works must be protected, the work must be protected, the human being must be protected on Mondays and Tuesdays and Wednesdays, not only on Sundays. So, the thing is, you have to make a prerequisite for a life, not to say a decent life, to get some material conditions for existence, and you can only get them through the process of working where you get the money you buy those funds, to condition your existence. So working on Sundays is not something to impose, but puts it as a possibility in one variant, if you have the opportunity to work. It's the worst thing to be without being able to work. So get into the skin of these people, they won't be saved at that moment by any spiritual enlightenment if they don't have that material side. I don't think that's why we need to break spears and rip each other's veins and pull out my kidneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78446	Thank you very much. Let me welcome, on behalf of all of you, and welcome the members of the Association of Distrophysers from Slavonski Brod to the Croatian Parliament. Welcome! We continue our work. [[Applause.]] Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78447	So here's a very short one. So, what happens in both the world and Europe, therefore the dissatisfaction of workers, which brings exactly the left more and more, i.e. waking up that only they can ensure that workers can truly not only protect workers but also change the relationship between work and capital, given that all right-wing governments simply do not just take over and exploit work to the limit we have additional weight here in Croatia which is not respected and so modest rights provided by the Labour Act, especially these miserable salaries are not provided. So you don't provide overtime, overnight work. In particular, employers have too few workers, especially at the store. And that exploitation, instead of him getting a double fee when he's working on Sundays, can only be done by anyone who wants to do it all in the Labour Law and stands because a worker has a right for one week. Therefore, the employer will be able to work for 7 days, but if he provides enough workforce and who volunteer to work on Saturdays and Sundays. Therefore, this law is complemented by the Labour Act, and we do not respect the Labour Act. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78448	Thank you. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78449	Dear colleagues have two opinions and decisions, i.e. the Constitutional Court's decisions, one from 2004 that stands definitely yes and what I have already said that the Republic of Croatia has both signed and international contracts and contracts and with the Holy See where Sunday is the day of rest, it is also in the law. Dispute in the law of Fižulić's rule and in law was what the law did not even equate trade in large and retail. So there were even examples that they were doing the number of squares that they could work on Sundays, etc. On the other hand, you have this new law and these provisions of the Constitutional Court, which the court argues that the legislator has not explained enough and explained in detail why he does not work on Sundays and on the days of national holidays. You also have the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, which states that in the holidays of the Republic of Croatia there is no work, but there are no criminal provisions for this law, such as the Law on Trade. During the Easter season, it was possible to do so because the Easter Law did not include Easter but referred to Sunday’s work. So, but on the other hand, talking about the Labour Act and applying to labour rights is a bit hypocritical because we say to those same workers openly you will have to continue working on Sundays and holidays. After all, the BMW might not have failed if a BMW hadn't sold out on Sundays and Croatia might not have an affair. And in Germany and during... And Schroeder and Helmut Schmitt, for God's sake, didn't work on Sundays and wasn't the right-wing government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78450	Thank you very much. Your time is up, thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78451	My colleague Anticevic, I would briefly support some of your thesis or one thesis. In fact, you were talking about this relationship between workers, workers and employers so that I could quote one employer, and also our fellow parliamentary representative, who once said in a conversation, it's not easy for me to pay them every month. This verb gave me a special hit because those workers must have earned that salary. He pays them, therefore, according to his mental state. He doesn't give them anything. Those workers must have earned that salary. And if they haven't earned it, then there shouldn't be a company, or there's other problems in the system, so it's hard for him to pay off, but it's not today's subject, and other difficulties, taxes, and everything else isn't the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78452	Thank you. And we have a replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78453	Well, respected colleagues, Ingrid, I will not, unlike your colleague Maras, praise this much of your exposure, although he was not even politically active 10, 11 years ago, so he doesn't know, but I will remind you of only one part of the time you were Minister of Justice. And that tells you how easy it is to be hypocritical when a man is in opposition, and it's hard really to be a man of his word when he's in power. I will remind you that just at that time when you were talking about people working, not receiving wages, although I am signing and agreeing with you, and I support you in everything that you need to protect the dignity of workers, that you should fight those who take advantage of them, that yet I fully imitate you there, but I remind you exactly that period when you were in that position to do something about whether you've done something. Then there was the number of 100,000 people working, not getting paid. It's 20 grand today. What did you then do to make these people do, and do not receive wages and how you punished those employers, I beg you, so answer me. Secondly, I spoke to your Prime Minister at the time about people who were registered on minimum wage and received more under the table, and asked him how to solve the problem. Now it's the easiest to talk, the man's gone, believe me he told me he didn't know how to handle it, he said impossible. Then, the war profit that you mention through privatisation, we agree, is what this government introduced into the Constitution, and why you didn't enter, and even then the privatisation ended until 2000. Years in many parts, so why didn't you punish those war profiteers or introduce it into the Constitution or the law and you know why? Because most of the SDPs were, and I'm going to ask you how many of your boards or boards of companies that made the sales decisions, etc., that's also one MP, unfortunately the deceased, discussed with me how many times. War and social courts, I've asked you 100 times, it's a union dream for 20 years, you know what you said then, we have no money, we can't introduce it, it introduces this power, I've been with the president of the customs union, which you often mention and which you're often a spokesman for. Unfortunately, back then, we warned you about customs issues, and especially as far as work protection is concerned, you didn't do anything. You know how it resulted in a customs strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78454	Thank you. Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78455	I'm a respected colleague you're asking all this because you don't know, because you're a nice and principled man and you know you wouldn't be happy with my answer, and I'm just gonna tell you, because I'm embarrassed to tell you what we did at all, because the government needs to do it because it's her duty, and when you do, I'm going to tell you and I'm going to go back. I got a special plaque from the customs to protect their rights. Next, the crime of default pays to a famous novel in 2003. The years have become a crime and you have not voted in favour of this law. We also extended the limitation deadlines precisely for economic crime from 20 to 40 years, and you also didn't want to vote for that amendment to the Penal Code. Just for these two reasons, because it was a big novel and these were the two most significant changes. Right now we're proposing a Labour, Social Court Act that's not just on paper like yours, working courts will be established, and nothing will happen, and it'll be 2000 and what year. Here we now propose both procedural and material provisions that the judge will simply fall under strict responsibility if in 7 days, 8 days a month for which individual actions are intended to be taken away from duty, that is one thing, only 4 courts are established, to be less cost, and that is correct. It was a big problem for more new buildings to work, we were only assigned to departments because we founded 12 new judicial bodies that your Prime Minister proudly shut down, only then she didn't take pictures with that closure. And we'll have those that need to be opened again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78456	Thank you. Let's move forward with the individual debate in turn, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78457	Thank you very much. Here we are today discussing Bill 869. It does not bear the label E. Thus, the European law, although here in the debates, is very often mentioned in the experience of working in trade and working time in other countries, starting with Slovenia and in the presentation of Mrs Petir a number of European countries. Why haven't we been here for 8 years, but 20 years as our Croatian state has arisen, as we have, why can't we agree once already in this matter, and then we have various laws depending on how to tell the daily political situations before the elections or, etc., in some other situations, and then we have the opinion of the Constitutional Court in which it is allegedly, and so it says in the explanation, that the Constitutional Court has determined that the Law on Trade doesn't explain why Sunday must be a fundamentally unworkable day. Was the Constitutional Court supposed to draw why Sunday was supposed to be a base day I don't know. So then the Constitutional Court, based on that alibi, makes the decision that he made, which is that Sunday is actually not basically a day off. Furthermore, a number of other problems are intertwined here, and this is the complete indolence of the union, the lack of collective agreements that the union should print, there are further inefficient inspections, no matter how many people here claim that inspections work, yes, work but not speaking enough, I stress effectively. Furthermore, Croatia does not actually have any other special strategy to me except to be a trade tourist destination and to be based exactly on trade, and this is seen by the production of various goods chains and houses such as mushrooms after the rain, in Slavonski boat we only have 8.9 trade chains of clusters coming from abroad, there are more but they deal with technical goods, but I am talking about those who deal with home supplies, selling. When I had discussed this same Law before, then I talked about it, so that 8 store houses in Slavonski Brod would do everything on Sunday. Can I please them with those possibly small ones to say shops, shops, shops however you like, meet the needs of buying Slavon ship citizens, and so does every other week and to say rest. And traffic if a citizen has to buy something he'll come to work. So it can be radioed, notified, exactly which week is followed by Kaufland, which Konzum, Gatro, Metro, Mercator that I don't advertise a single department store here. I'm a doctor for 34, 35 years, and in those 34 years, I've worked on my own while I've been waiting for a hearing for 600 weeks for almost two years, working on Sundays and holidays. But the work was defined by a collective contract and trust me when they're on duty at Slavonski Brod Hospital, there's a jag to be kept on duty on Sundays right now. However, what Mr. Vinkovic said to firemen, ambulances, hospitals and all of them, these are services that are needed so-called. I'd say metaphorical fire measures and they have to work day and night and Sunday and holidays. Because that there's no way for the state and society and everything else to work at all. There was talk here about there being paid work, if it's a Sunday to get paid decently. It is known how it is arranged in public and state institutions such a job. But why isn't it arranged in the shops? Why isn't he arranged in the department stores? Not that I don't know, but I know that collective agreements are missing right now, there's not enough pressure on employers. Because as someone said here, Croatia has become a non-oliberal colony in which workers may indeed be legally protected, but in practice it is not, in practice it is not implemented, and I am not just saying that I am accusing, but the culprit of these are both the lack of union indifference and lack of collective contracts, but also inefficient labour inspections. At work on Sundays, in any case, someone here mentioned the mandatory exchange of workers. You know how the English solved the exchange of workers on Sundays? So, that employees who fill their working week with hours foreseen by the law cannot then work Sunday and do not have to work the hope and have to eat Sundays and holidays, how did they do it? So who should I say is what they say about us on certain employment and pensioners who used to work at the store and who are enough for the four and five hours that we do on Sundays at the store on Sundays. Good for them, good for everyone. And to the employer, and to the state, and to those who do it. I mentioned it to the Minister of Economy once, so he said it was impossible for us to regulate it legally. They have to give up their pensions, put them in a state of rest, etc. Even though the English spent it so I don't see any reason, and here we go towards the EU, how they can, and we can't, I don't know. In any case, have your opinion, as President Bebic said and stand behind it, the HDSSB does not keep the figures in his pocket as the left and right hold it, and then here the demagogues here speak against the Labour Act and its provisions and will raise their hand for him on Friday. We think and agree with my colleague Vinkovic that there are also good elements in this law, but what we are opposed to, which is underrated and overwork on Sundays. Mrs. Petir said that 40,000 merchants work Sundays, mostly 40,000 women. The other day we were marking some kind of violence against women, etc. Well, actually, this could be classified as some kind of physical, but this kind of abuse. That is why the HDSSB club will not raise its hand if such a vote of law occurs on Friday, but it is for once again to work, to find compromises so that in the second reading, the HDSB club might be in favour of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78458	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78459	Dear counterpart Grubisic from your debate, but also from all the debates, there is one point of view that perhaps some of the provisions on working time may not be necessary on this Trade Act. It's been said that we have the holiday law, we have the Labour Act, we have the other laws, we have the collective bargaining system that should work, for 20 years we've been developing this system, therefore, there are instruments that could be negotiated in a balance of interest and capital and labour. And the second thing that got me to pick up your line is the question of a pensioner. Well, of course, pensioners could work in trade without freezing their pension within their remaining ability if it were courage in the Croatian government to define occasional jobs that pensioners could do. Of course they wouldn't be able to work just because he's retired, but they'd have to work according to the rules of the profession. However, there is no such courage so far, but there is a lot of speculation that someone will earn if they hire a pensioner, which I think is a completely wrong thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78460	The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78461	Thank you, Mr. Temple, for this replica, and I think we're pretty much alike. And as for all these laws on trade and labour law, it would be said, and you mentioned it in the replica, it would be said in Slavonia, "A lot of grandmothers, a kilo kid," and so this Law on Trade and Working Time in Trade is actually by who knows which times here to discuss. What you were saying about the pensioners, we're completely in agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78462	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear Representative Grubisic, you have repeatedly highlighted this need and the necessity of not working on Sundays in order to respect the possibility of our families being together. However, there were comments after MP Vinkovic mentioned the necessity of an eight-hour working time dating back to 1886 after those working demonstrations in Chicago on May 1st, and there was a comment that this was one feature of socialism and anarchism in 20. A century. I must say that is not true, and I must remind all of you, all who think in this way that the International Festival of Labour is not only a feature of socialism and anarchism but is deeply related to the faith itself because it is still the great Pope Pio XII. For 56 years, he declared just the 1st holiday of St. Joseph's worker. Therefore, for those who consider this to be related only to the international Day of Work that comes from Chicago, I must also remind those believers of this very important information. Not by accident in 1955, Holy Father Pio XII. I made that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78464	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Buric, for those who grab capital and for those who place workers, especially in trade, in the position in which they are, and these are the real exponents of neoliberal capitalism, and I was saying that somehow, according to some political opinions, Croatia has become a neoliberal colony, for them there is neither Saint Joseph nor the rest of the holidays, so clearly because St Joseph on May 1st, therefore, they have no respect for anything. Their only thing they respect is that green or some other bill and that's their saint, that's their idol and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78466	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we can follow a long history of changing the Law on Trade. Back in the early 2000s, when we tried to regulate how big shopping malls could be opened and set up, and then by trying to regulate the working time in trade as one of the few activities by that very basic law. And every time we tried to regulate working time in trade within the Law on Trade, the Constitutional Court abolished provisions, such provisions. So it happened twice, and once the government intervened itself before the law even came into force in those provisions that concerned the regulation of working time. I'd say we're going from extreme to extreme. This is not the only law in which the Constitutional Court has abolished certain provisions that may need to be regulated, but not in such a way, but when we go into the amendments to the law, then we end up erasing such provisions. This happened now in Article 12 when we abolish all provisions relating to the regulation of working time and then we abolish the provisions to, for example, not only is the ban on Sundays but also on the eve of Easter, on the eve of the Old Year, on Christmas Eve, etc. So at least there's a possibility and the debate is whether it should stay or not. Similarly, we have had the Law on Agricultural Land, how we will follow or punish those who do not farm land, who leave their land to be a weed eater. The Constitutional Court abolished such a provision as he estimated not to be constitutional and legal. We haven't even tried to figure out how to deal with it legally, and I don't think that's good. If it takes more time, then let's not go with the law that leaves a lot of dilemmas, and despite the fact that we're fine-tuning some areas here, suppressing the gray economy, the smaller barriers administrative to this activity, we've come to one problem again, and this whole debate here today is now about working or not working on Sundays and holidays that I don't think even in this law should be discussed in this way. But why do we have this problem? Because trade and trade work are directly visible to every citizen. Every citizen appears once a day, multiple times or in a few days at the store. If there are exploits of workers in this sense to work longer, not to be paid, to work on Sundays in some hall, in some factory, most people don't see it. That's what those who work there see and feel their family. We don't actually seem to have good supervision, or if we can't guarantee it by some basic law that regulates working relationships, it must be more detailed. So we come to the Labour Act. We have harmonised the Law on Working with EU legislation which has a rich and long tradition of collective bargaining that we do not have. And we think that entrepreneurship, free entrepreneurship, and that the entrepreneur, the owner of capital, can do whatever he wants, is actually how we behave, even though our constitution says that property is binding. And if property is binding then the entrepreneur actually has a great obligation to create new values through this property, but also to behave in accordance with certain standards, regulations and laws. We said our weekly hours are 40 hours and there's nothing an inspector can do when he comes to control to ask a worker what time he's working, is he working on Sundays, is he doing longer. If it is pointed out at the store working hours, if it is converted to a weekly working hours of 40 hours, it knows exactly how many employers must have employees, if it works even on Sunday, if it works longer than 16 hours, so longer than two shifts a day or 14 hours a day. And if there are not so many employees, it means that people work longer hours than the law is allowed, and it must have either a redistribution of working hours or in that overtime quota allowed by the Labour Act, it must be paid. So if we need more inspectors, we keep saying that we have a massive administration, a large number of people, and it turns out we have too many people somewhere and where it's important to have more people, professional people who have to be in the field all the time, we say we don't have enough people there. Or it's often said that they don't have that kind of authority. Well, we're the ones who need to change exactly the kind of laws that they have the authority to do that. Therefore, it is true that an entrepreneur has the right within the prescribed working time has the right to schedule that time as appropriate and as appropriate to that activity. But the worker also has the right under the Labour Act to do prescribed working hours, to have a daily, weekly and annual vacation and to have it provided. If the employer does not provide him with this, then there is a state that will punish such an entrepreneur through mechanisms of supervision and control. Therefore, in terms of labour and capital, the state must always be on the side of the weaker one, and in this sense, the weaker the worker is. So we haven't actually heard anything new through these discussions, because the whole debate in this concrete amendment to the Law on Trade has come back to a working time that is now in no way really regulated by this law. If there is a problem of working time in trade, then we must resolve it in another way, hence greater supervision or perhaps more detailed working hours in the working legislation, or in particular in the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78468	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78469	Dear fellow Zgrebec, is it not intriguing that where the Labour Act is applied directly, for example, where the continuous work of emergency aid or firefighters is determined that there is no problem there with doing work and not paying for work, and where we are trying to solve something specific by law we do not solve the problem. The Constitutional Court annuls these laws and we are constantly spinning in the same circle without a solution. And the second thing I noticed in your presentation, it's not just the visibility and the invisibleness of working in the store. And these people who are in emergency, we also see firemen working on Sundays, wearing uniforms, moving around, everywhere, etc. It's said to be something else. It is a matter of trade due to non-payment of work making huge profits due to work default, and profits are created relatively faster in trade than in all other activities, and it is an incredible game in terms of who will work longer, more favourable and in some ways rising to the citizens, and yet because of this someone suffers very, very badly, and suffers this particular worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78470	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78471	It has already been said here that we have quite reduced that chapter of the Labour Act that has spoken of working hours, and now we have what we have. We used to prescribe by the Labour Act how much the worker should get more when working on the second shift, when working on a night shift, when working on Sundays as the day of the law established as the day of the week’s vacation, when working on holidays and national holidays. So we don't have all that anymore. And you know what happens now? That some entrepreneurs, the owners of the labor shop, pay three to four kunas an hour on Sunday. Can't you really handle it? I think you can if there's a will.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78472	Thank you. And we have another replica of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78473	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear representative Dragica Zgrebec. So you set up one thesis that the law that leaves dilemmas better not bring. I think that's certainly true, and I think it's better if this topic is still being considered, to find solutions that will be more optimal. And what are the solutions? So solutions are needed in terms of working hours because it is certain that working hours at the store are not only on holidays, not only on Sundays, but the rest of the days are very problematic. I have an example of a bakery nearby where I live where I see a saleswoman who works both in the morning and in the afternoon and in the evening. I don't know when it's her working time, but also Monday to Saturday. The only thing that doesn't work on Sundays is because that bakery doesn't work. I think in that part of the non-payment of that work at the store is very present. And that's exactly what my colleague Hrelja mentioned, and I think it's often a bigger problem than if it's going to work on Sundays, holidays, or if there's going to be enough control. Whether inspectors will do their job not only for working hours for holidays, Sundays, but generally for full-time trade. I think that these problems and failures in that part have very much and exactly that part, the control section will certainly bring more than frequent changes to such changes to the law that especially often see the Constitutional Court and abolish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78474	Thank you. And we have an individual discussion of the last, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Croatia sees many miracles, but does not find a line for so many Jews. It's Antun Gustav Matoš, not Zoran Vinkovic, so you don't have to replicate me. According to the current situation, there is another category of people in the Croatian people acting alike. I can't call myself traitors, but I can call myself a cowardly egg. It's Antun Gustav Matosh again. Why did I bring this up? So here's this right side, that's my left side, and this right side, on my right, and the left hand side of the hook is going to fit in, so it's probably going to turn out to be a dollleric. And pass this law that will bring nearly 2,000 people who work at the store, 40,000 women, and the other day celebrated the Day of Violence marked the days of violence against women in an unequal position. I will mention only these two decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which has made one third, which this Croatian Assembly does not hold, and God or the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure to finally draw up a consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and publish it in the "National Journal" so that we citizens of the Republic of Croatia may be workers in trade or parliamentary representatives of the Constitution. It hasn't been done yet. However, the two decisions, one in 2004, one in 2009, are definitely clear that it is not Sunday and holidays, but it is about the great mistakes of the legislator, in which case the coalition government by 2003, or Minister Fizulić, and in the case of the HDZ government. And let's not be blind, that's all. It is necessary to read what is written in the Constitutional Court's decision. This law does not solve a single important thing that is related to the work and functioning of trade, it solves only. I would beg peace in the assembly. It only solves whether the front door in the store will be glued to what is or is not prohibited to sell to young people up to 18 and how wide these doors are, and whether a trader must have at least three classes of high school if employed, and all those who have found themselves can have one grade of elementary school. The real problem of this law, and no article touches this law and all trades in the Republic of Croatia when this law is passed were those small or large, although large, the big trade has disappeared with bags, only small trade remains thanks to the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'll work from 0 to 24 hours, and that's what HDZ and SDP will bring, and probably one of the MPs or MPs, family members will go to the store, the big shopping mall, probably Christmas and Easter and... And on Sundays... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] how they advocated that such a law should not be passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2009, the Constitutional Court made a decision, we're making an emergency procedure today that we've been doing in this year and a half, two years, what has the government been doing, what has the competent ministry been doing, what has the legislator been doing, asleep winter sleep? I agree that this law also violates some international agreements, violates the Labour Act, violates one of the most important ones, there is not a MP Lucic who said he agrees with what I said, but his party discipline tells him that he will still vote for this law even though it is against it, because he probably has a party opinion, I don't know what kind of colleagues here from the SDP, but he'll probably have to have a party opinion. However, the Labour Act states that a worker has the right to a week’s rest on Sundays for at least 24 hours uninterrupted. So on Sunday, if it is necessary to work on Sundays, he must be provided with one day of rest every week. This law also violates the contract with the Holy Table, so I will repeat that the Republic of Croatia and the Holy See signed the treaty that the unworked days of Sunday and the next celebrations of the 1st of January, the sacrament of the Holy Virgin Mary, the New Year, the 6th of January God's announcement or the Holy of the Three Kings, the Easter Day, the 15th of August, the Ascension of the Blessed Virgin Mary or the Great Lady, the 1st of November, the 25th of December Christmas, the 26th of December of the first day of Christmas St. Stephen's Day, so did my amendment read and entered the holiday law. Contracting parties will agree on possible changes in the days ahead. Because of all of this, this law must not be passed by emergency procedure, not only for the sake of the Holy See, but for the people who work in the store, whether he male or female, whether the boss, or the warehouse, whether he who lays goods on the shelves or who sits behind the register, because he will sit on all these holidays, will sit on the day of independence and independence, will sit on the day of statehood, who will wait? People who didn't have time to go to the store the day before, but people who have nothing better to do and go to the shopping mall and that's why the Croatian economy won't collapse or tourism will fail. And that is why it is important that this law also works out a number of other shortcomings from the competent authorities of the units of local self-government, etc. Well, you'll have a circus in Slavonia, so the council will have to sit down to see if anyone who sells balloons should be allowed to sell in a moving part of the goods. We are entering the European Union. We are not far from this via Slovenia, now the Schengen border will move, it can go to Austria, Germany, the United States of Chicago and fight for workers' rights, so we do not have to destroy and choke in Croatia such crazy laws that are not based on the Constitution, the Labour Act, and are not based on the Law on holidays that this Parliament and these MPs have also passed, and in which it says that on holidays in the Republic of Croatia does not work. Regarding members and members of other religions, it is also defined in the law, so members of Orthodox faith do not work on their Christmas, Bosniaks or people of Islamic faith do not work on Kurban, Bajram or Ramadan, all of this is defined by law. This law is completely unnecessary at this time, does not monitor the state of the economy, nor protects the economy, at least protects workers, but at least protects consumers. That's why on behalf of the HDSSB club, we insist if we've waited two years for this law to go to another reading. Because as a man I don't want to blush at the store tomorrow it was Konzum, Kaufland, Lidl or I don't know who or some small bakery, all these services that we mentioned working on shifts and it can't happen that one firefighter does all Sundays of the year, it doesn't work. Neither does the one in the E.R., nor does the doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78476	Bring the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78477	I'm bringing the end. So once again I insist on another reading and ask the legislator to remember both Christmas and Easter as he eats turkey with mills, pork or cooked ham that someone does such a law must work and sit in the store.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78478	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78479	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78480	We have two replicas. First is Honourable Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78481	Thank you very much. You have well noticed the absurdity of this urgent procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. Namely, the Constitutional Court made its decision on 19 June 2009. So more than two years, two years and four months. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, which writes here on the first page, has submitted its proposal in accordance with Article 159 of the Act of 21 July 2010. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to go here to the assembly. So the government on 21 July 2010. Now, today is September 29th, so again more than a year. There's so much about the urgency of procedure and the absurdity of urgency. And yet we have the subject that you've already presented and what you've been saying about 200 thousand employees of women, 40 thousand say them on Sundays according to the information that Mrs. Petyr made, but I'm worried about something else here where Article 3 says that the word of peasants is deleted. So it's obviously about selling on peasant property, etc. So I don't know if the peasants are now becoming OPGs in new terminology, because the workers are workers of workers and OPGs or our villages become OPG settlements? I don't know what it'll look like in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78482	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78483	Well, dear colleague, I hope that our Croatian villages will not disappear, and we could eventually disappear like this between the laws that everyone is against in the debate, and eventually be adopted. Some have taken over the logo, some have taken over certain ways of behavior. It is not Germany's smaller state, smaller economic potential or Austria or other EU countries, I don't mean Greece, we may be a little close to Greece, but then. Because stores don't work on Sundays. My dear, if you want to buy, go to the airport, go to the train station or go to the bus station and buy what you didn't buy on Saturdays, and leave me to be at peace with God's family on Sundays, and God rested on Sundays, so can the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78484	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78485	Dear fellow, of course, I agree with you and with all those who are against an emergency procedure for this law and I definitely agree that working time trade is not the fundamental problem of this law, that it can be regulated by collective agreements and direct application of other laws. In your discussion, you have passed from Rome, Zagreb, Vienna to Chicago, but I would warn you of something that is happening to us here. I don't know if you know that 20% of the daily bread produced in Croatia is being dumped? And that's one way of making sure our Slavs work and our cereals work, because I'm sure they'd agree with everything, but that the grain is thrown through the bread so they won't agree with it for sure. What exactly is going on here? It happens because merchants, which are supermarkets, which chains are too powerful and they produce bread the same as they do and small bakers sell their bread so small bakers' bread is thrown away. Because of the undefined hygiene conditions, you can't turn that bread into too bad because you don't know where it's being stored. So, in this system of trade, there is enormous material damage, damage to food resources, and it is also a shame for these producers, so workers in small bakers who deliver goods because they are in a very bad position on the market, so they work at their own expense just to have their product on the shelf of a large trade chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78486	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78487	My dear colleague, they have not only offended the wheat but the whole of Slavonia and it lasts for a long period of time, but I wouldn't talk about it right now. Here I am pleased that you have supported this proposal to cast out this urgency of procedure and that this law still goes to another reading. As far as I'm concerned, I've traveled around the world for a while in the debate, but I'm tight with both legs in Nice Croatia, and I know very well how both workers and peasants and pensioners live and how not just bread is thrown away, but a lot is thrown away. Even pearls are thrown in front of pigs and about that one other occasion. I claim and appeal again to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to put this law in another reading and to define working time. It's that stores don't work on Sundays and national holidays. It's the least we can do. Not before the elections, but in life, not just for those who work in stores, but for those who go to the store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78488	Thank you. We have one debate of five minutes final on behalf of the HSU HNS Club, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the proposers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill for a very simple reason and everyone is absolutely clear that what is proposed by this law is something that people in trade need, something with which trade unions would agree, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and something that simplifies or revives everyday practice allows people to work in trade to go and operate in a simpler and rational way. But what's being discussed all day here is a matter of working time or rather, this law doesn't solve what's a key problem and it's impossible for this law to solve it unless it wants to be politicized as it has been politicized for many years with Sundays at the end again, these people suffer from Sundays on Sundays. However, we have a whole series of laws that solve this problem and the key issue is the rule of law. Do inspection services do their job to control how and how employers pay their workers, to say that someone pays 3 kunas. What are we talking about? In addition to disciplinary responsibility, in addition to criminal responsibility, people who control this system, who need to enable these people who work for their work to pay and obviously do not work, are politicised whether on Sundays yes or no, the points are collected, points are collected, but people in trade continue to suffer, and they suffer primarily because the rule of law in that segment is not functioning as a control function. This is ultimately a matter of morality, however, morale in this country is one special category, we had the opportunity yesterday in the Croatian Parliament to listen to false, untrue in the Croatian Parliament because of politics is also for moral condemnation despite the document that we have all received in the Assembly that no one is being conducted, that there is no suspicion of criminal responsibility, persisting in the Croatian Parliament this topic opens up. It's like we're blind to that document we read. The issue of morality, in addition to the criminal responsibility that is under way on the INA, is the issue of morality. People who made decisions and didn't know what they were making decisions about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78490	Your Honor, I want you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78491	Mr. Vice President, I'm sticking to the subject because exactly the control function, which is directly related to morale, is a problem that people who work in a store, who do their job fairly and responsibly, don't get paid, work under difficult conditions, and we're trying to solve it by a law that can't solve it and won't solve it, whenever it gets into that system, it's always going to fall in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I think that one category that needs to be taken into account and the rule of law has to work, and I expect the rule of law to work, that our rule of law would not be a problem in trade these years, and so would many others, and when you notice in the Croatian Parliament it is false, it is also a question of morality, and that happened yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78492	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78493	Dear fellow, the problem will not be solved because Croatia has a number of laws that address this problem, but can only be solved by the Law on Trade. I will just remind myself that Germany also has a constitution, there is similar legislation one of the leading European Union countries to which we adapt our legislation, and in Germany is not working, there is a constitution, there is a constitutional court, and it is not done on Sundays or holidays.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78494	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78495	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for a debate that has lasted a long time and I believe this law has covered it from all sides. What we want to point out is that although the emphasis of the debate was on working time, the fact is that this law does not regulate working hours because the Constitutional Court's decision was taken two years ago and at that moment it came into effect and thus derivated the provisions that were in force at that time in the law of trade. Indeed, they can agree with all those who speak and who say that we have enough rules to regulate working hours and protect the dignity of workers and make sure that they do what they do to be paid and eventually that those who do not want to work on Sundays do not work on Sundays but that those who want to do it on Sundays are able to do so in accordance with collective agreements, labour contracts, and other regulations. What we largely accounted for in this law was the fact that the corrections of some illogicalness and some of the problems that have arisen in practice precisely because of this law was considered as was said with the chamber and with the association of employers and trade unions, where we are trying to end some forms of unfair trade, the gray market and we hope that through these amendments and additions of the law we will succeed. In some parts there may still be certain, I think it's a good thing that this law introduces for the first time and that ban on exposure and sales, however uninteresting it is at this point, but still the exposure and sale of pornographic materials. Of course, there may be a need to work and see what pornographic material is in the first place, so that this Law and all other laws that might possibly be referred to would be more precise. In any case, we also believe that it will not be at the local level with decisions made by representative or other bodies because when we passed this Law we have made this in cooperation with the Ministry of Administration and Justice and there are mechanisms towards which not all ambulance sales will be necessary or for any car that will appear on any ground there will be no situation where representative bodies will have to sit down and make special decisions for any such case. So here we continue to believe that this law brings a lot of good, and because of the situation in which it is now and because of the fact that we are doing everything to try to combat unfair competition, the grey market and to try to remove administrative barriers to all types of investment and also to invest in trade, we are standing on the point that the law should certainly go according to the emergency procedure and we hope that this House will adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78496	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78497	So I have to correct the recognised State Secretary, given that he has spoken falsely about the opinion of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is talking about the failure of the Proposer of the Law on Trade to specify the objective of which he considers a insufficient general rule of Sunday as the day of the week's rest of the prescribed Labour Act, i.e. to indicate the objective of which he considers necessary and justified in the economic activity of trade reached for the specific legal measure of banning the work of shops on Sundays. The Constitutional Court doesn't even mention holidays. On the other hand, I'm glad that you did this law in agreement with the Ministry of Administration and Justice because one law, one decision and a regulation made in agreement with that ministry, so we saw how far it led. You know which one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78498	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78499	A fellow secretary of state said in the last part of your final statement that it would not be necessary for every decision to meet the representative body of the municipality, city or county to decide on each kiosk. Well, then you're already delegating the law that you yourself have proposed. Well, exactly what it says is that the representative body decides, and now you say, and the law hasn't been passed yet, it won't have to. What's this all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78500	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on this point and announce that we will continue at 15.00 hours, proposing that we combine point 5 and point 7. Does anyone have a problem with that? There isn't. Therefore, we proceed at 15.00 hours with points 5 and 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78501	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. It's an emergency procedure, PZ No. 869 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting in favour of the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on trade. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted by a majority of 89 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78502	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue our afternoon work. As announced, we'll merge points 5 and 7. No one's opposed, so let's go, that's five. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 871 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Insurance Companies Act and paying out pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 874 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. As is known, the introduction of the second pillar of pension insurance in 2002 allowed those who were then between 40 and 50 years of age to voluntarily choose whether to remain only in the first pillar of pension insurance or to enter this combined system, so choose the first and second pillars of pension insurance. It's the right choice of a permanent number of people, over 95 grand. One part of those persons, of course, women who had the conditions for early retirement, had already retired under that combined system, so somewhere around 1200. However, after the law was passed and such a solution was made, some changes occurred, both in the economy and in the regulation. Among other economic crises that have taken place around the world and thus had its consequences in Croatia, it has also affected the contributions of funds that are still satisfactory, even though the contributions compared to the funds in the world were truly satisfactory, yet these offerings were somewhat lower than they could be said in the 2002 optimistic forecasts. There have also been changes in the regulations, so after the introduction of the second pension pillar, several pension insurance regulations have been amended. Thus, on 1 April 2004, the pension allowance of 100 kuna per 6% of the integrated pension, from 1 January 2008 to 31 October 2010, was amended by the percentage of the reduction of the early pension from 0.34 to 0.15 per month, in order to increase it from 1 November 2010, but not in full, in the maximum part, yes but not in the same way as before. Now it's one combination of 0.15 to 0.30. But the biggest change I would say is the adoption of the 2007 Retirement Add-on Act, which brought pensions to people who are therefore new pensioners that are 4 to 7%. Therefore, later pensions of persons selected by the other pensioners, so persons who were only in the first pension rate were changed in relation to the situation in 2002. What happened next, as I said one part of the pensioners, were pensioners who had the right to early retirement, already retired. Their pensions combined from the first and second pillars are less than that they used only a pension in the first pillar. For them 99%, a few people, as far as the data is known, still has a bigger pension, it's probably because they had extremely high incomes, so that's their savings... This pension averages 1965.83 kunas from the first pillar, and from the second pillar of only 107.17 kuna, which is less combined than just using first pillar pensions. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, it is difficult to expect that after a short period of savings, five, six, seven years an even significant income from the second pillar can be expected. That's true, but neither did all these people retired fully voluntarily. Of course, it is voluntary whenever a request is made, but there were also objective circumstances because, of course, people who had lost their jobs in those years were hard to find another job, but they had the conditions for retirement are absolutely logical that they took advantage of the right to retire. Given that the current pensions are less to be expected, pensions, so those future pensioners who are still insurance companies, which in a relatively short time, would be retired in the near future, were certainly less combined in the second and first pillar than in the first pillar alone. That would be for those who will go through many years, it is now hard to say, but those who would go next year etc., and in 2012, respectively, will start going in early and men, so their pensions would be less. For these reasons, it is proposed that those persons, therefore volunteers, should be able to choose from the second pillar at the time when the second pillar was introduced between 40 and 50 years of age and be chosen voluntarily to enter the second pillar if it is more favourable for them. So this would also allow people who are already retired, so current pensioners, pensioners. So, for them somewhere around 1200 and these current insurance companies, so future pensioners. In doing so, it would have to change two laws. Therefore, the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies on the Payment of Pensions on the basis of Individual Capitalised Savings. Therefore, current pensioners who make pensions from the second and first pillars would be able to get their request out of that system, transfer their funds to the first pillar of pension insurance and receive only pensions from the first pillar if that is more favourable for them. They would have a 90-day deadline within which to choose. They should be calculated on the amount of pension only from the first pillar and, if it is more favourable for them within those 90 days, they could choose and then their assets would be transferred from the second pillar to the first pillar. As far as future pensioners are concerned, current insurance companies could use this right at the time of retirement. So at that point they would also have to get a calculation of pension by one and another system. So combined from the second and the first pillar or just from the first pillar and then choose which is more favourable for them, of course, at that moment. Later, so what things might look like later, no one can predict. But what's more favourable at that point and choose it and get a pension, and yet if they choose only the first pillar from the second pillar, their assets would be transferred to the first pillar of pension insurance. It is expected that most, the vast majority of these people who are now benefiting from pensions, so pensioners, pensioners will now choose such a solution and get out of the second pillar and enter only the first pillar. Only a few who have an extremely large pension would do so. This solution would initially lead to an increase in funds, hence budget revenues, and in 2011 by 26 million is estimated at around 5 million in 2012. Of course, later that would be the other way around, because this is the one time entrance in 2011 and since it is 90 days it would extend in 2012. It's a one-time entrance, and then there's further costs when the pension is paid. As for the cost of getting out of pensioners, insurance companies who are not yet retired, so those who are just about to retire are estimated on the basis of possible data now, so that in 2011, this would be somewhere around... So we can say 640, 650 in 2012. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About 60 at 15, let's say... In 2030, it's a small number of those that will still work, a smaller number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is estimated that the costs will only come later, so in the first phase this will be an increased revenue budget. Because the one who leaves the second pillar is transferred to the first, so it's estimated to be about 3 million kuna in 2011, 22 million kuna at 12, 63 to 13. The estimates are that this increased income will be all the way up until 2024 to 2025 when it will then be a reduction. And in the end, there are two more things to say. These two laws were under discussion at the Economic Social Council, which fully supported these draft laws. They were also at the National Council for Retireds and Older People who also fully supported this Law. I have to say for those who don't know the National Council for Retired and Older Persons was founded at the end of last year. It includes representatives of the government, including representatives of the institutions, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and representatives of pensioners and that of the Croatian Retired Mothers, the Croatian Retired Union, and the "Retired Together" bloc. And in the end, I have one more thing to say, so maybe about the time this law puts the bill in the House. So, you could have done that before. Since this problem is possible in several ways, it may have tried to solve it in some other ways, but because of financial and fiscal constraints, it is not possible. On the other hand, the amendments to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, although this part had already been agreed with, in a working group consisting of representatives other than the Ministry, trade unions, employers, pensioners, pension funds, HANFA, the Pension Institute, have been considering amendments to some other provisions. In the first row on the possibility of introducing sub-portfels that are very complex changes that require very serious analysis and simulations, which took a very long time to eventually unanimity by all representatives, thinking that it would still take a lot more time to introduce such changes, especially considering that some of the most recent world experiences are modifying those sub-portfectary solutions that we have considered, so that there was little further time to do so. And finally, here we propose that the law be passed. Thank you very much. Laws, both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78504	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78505	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, it is incorrect for you to say that in the composition of the National Council for Retired People and the elderly are a block of pensioners together. It's a falsification, to be clear, because the founding decision was placed in the national council by a non-existent entity. At that time when the council was established, the National Council for Retired People and the Elderly was not registered. So please do not use this composition of the National Council, because it is very legally very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78506	Thank you. But I still have to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take the floor? Yeah. The board of directors. Who answered? No, I don't. Then nothing. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78507	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I'm just going to go back a little bit in the not-so-distant past, namely in the 9th month of 2009, when the dimension of which the secretary of state spoke was somewhere around 60 retired pensioners I asked the prime minister at the moment when she thought the problem was solved. She said Mr. Hrelja that you stayed in the coalition with us would know. You see, elections must come to me to find out when this problem will be solved. It did not help the 15th of December of last year when the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Pensions proposed a solution to this problem, he proposed it through an amendment to the Retirement Act, which is also possible and suggested three possible alternatives, the first that currently eliminates the greatest damage to what we are talking about today. So I'm sure this is the solution, and I don't think there's going to be any party in the end, and I doubt there's going to be any representative who won't support this because this is the solution. However, this solution is not what it could have been, because forgive me, this is a solution primarily for the 93 thousand workers who have agreed on the 2nd pillar and singled out for the 2nd pillar, it is a solution for those who, in 5, 10 years' time, will retire in a larger number, it is in some way a solution for pensioners who, by a thousand 200 who are retired, but at more than a year's, a year's and a half delay, without compensation damage, and it did not have to be done, and it would have to be overcrowded, or it would have to suffer. As you know, they get an average of 107 kunas from the 2nd pillar, and they're on average damaged from 300 to 1,000 kuna depending on where they worked. I'm sorry, I'm very sorry that this law is much more modest and poor than the work version I've had the opportunity to read, I've tried to consult and financial experts, the law and in my work version to sort of disperse the risk of capital investment by the insurance company, that, in part that reduction of pension funds fees was acceptable to the people of the financial profession, so I find it very odd to give up, I guess now it's a deal, here we'll have to shut down practical pension insurance companies or we'll have to have them open because there are even two pensioners whose pension is... Bigger than they would have been if they'd only been in the 1st pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are two top managers who had an extremely good salary, according to the contributions they paid in the 1st pillar, they belong to the category of the most restricted pensions, and what they get from the 2nd pillar is beyond them, so this is not subject to the restriction, so they went better overall than just that they were only in the 1st pillar. Obviously, giving up on the different regulation of the work of pension funds in some way means we can mean that the government has given up on their ambitions and their demands to continue to make high profits on capital management, i.e. I mean that the government has not had the courage to go to the end to address the situation, because pardon and high pension funds fees reduce the capitalised savings of each insurance company. But I repeat again in terms of positive shifts I doubt there is anyone who would be against this law. Our demands and our proposal of 15.12.2010 focused on solving this problem through the Law on Supplements, with the fact that there is always time for this, on the Law on Retirement Supplement, and was very fair and was currently solving this problem. Why was he just? He was just because he dealt with one indetermination in the Retirement Supplement Act, under which the non-definitions of those with two pillar pensions do not receive a pension allowance for years only in the 1st pillar. This does not say anywhere in the Retirement Supplement Act that they do not have the right to do so, it is an interpretation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it is an interpretation of the Ministry of Economy and could be accessed to pay for an allowance to a proportional part of the pension in which the insurance company paid only in the first pension column. It wasn't done, and there was permanent damage. I suggested personally to the Legislative Committee that this be resolved in another possible way, where these thousands of 200 pensioners would not be absolutely damaged. What kind of way is that? A way to make it a credible interpretation of Article 1. The supplement law states that pensioners have the right to pay an allowance for years of first-degree payments. At that time, retroactive payment of the allowance could be made, and they would not suffer any damage. This is how they put up with her. And we ultimately predicted that what is proposed here is that amendments to the Law on Voluntary and Mandatory Pension Funds allow for the possibility of all those who have voluntarily entered and exited the pension column, and that is precisely how the Proposer here says if it is more favourable for them. I have to say that in these years, the government has been pretty deaf to the situation where these pensioners, and that's not a small number, 1200 people, 1200 fates, 1200 disgruntled, bitter women have lived. Because living with such a small pension that compared to a colleague who worked on the same jobs, but did not pay the second pillar was higher than 300 to 1200 kuna for them is a big, big injustice. And that injustice is even greater and that insensitivity is even higher on those average 107 kuna pension insurance companies took a 12% tax even though it was evident that by comparing two data, which is the payment of pensions from the first pillar and payments from the second pillar the total pension was below 3200, therefore in the untaxable part. So women were bitter about the fact that their 107 kunas from the second pillar of the average tax are taxed. I asked that question to Ms. Martini Dalic, the finance minister, and of course she promised to do everything, of course it wasn't done. Thank God that this and this problem is solved, but that bitterness, those fears that these women have addressed to me personally and to HSU, and I believe that you have received such letters, too, simply cannot be ignored. And yet another thanks to you, Mr. Secretary of State, I am obliged to say this, despite the fact that you and I disagree on the composition of the National Council for Retired, because I think that in this National Council for Retired and Older Persons, there is no way that under the number one Government can have a majority, under number two there is no place for political parties, there is room for representatives of associations, there are seats and experts of pension, labour rights, social rights. So, all experts who can contribute to the development of the system. I am grateful to you for one reason, I know that some euphoric people who are members of that National Council have proposed that the second pillar be abolished. We do not have the right to play with the expectations of future generations in Croatia and on this side I am grateful that we are doing these changes that are acceptable without you accepting the collapse. I know that there have been such initiatives, and it is our job to explore within 2 to 4 years the possibilities as much as possible to improve individual capitalised savings in the second pillar that the total pension from the first and second pillars is better than just the pension from the first pillar. I say in two to four years we've been given this time to investigate and improve the second pillar of the pension system. We've also had time to re-introduce the tax relief on the third pillar because I doubt the first pillar will be able to endure all of this in the long run. My dear colleague Lesar is waving his head off, but he'll never get me to tear down something that's drawn. They'll get me for the responsibility of building what we've plotted and promoting, but I don't accept the word "ruining" or "removing" the second pillar as such. We just don't have that right. So, it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78508	But he didn't say anything, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78509	It's not, it's not, it's all gestures all the time, and I'm following it. He's my reference point, he's rocking. So, I'm going on with this. So, of course, I expect and I'm glad that you said here that the revenues of the budget due to the transfer of funds because it is expected that most of these 1200 pensioners will use what is proposed, i.e. to move to the first pillar of pension insurance, i.e. to become beneficiaries of pension under the Pension Relations Act. But it should also be honest and say that it will be an increase in expenditure because there will therefore be more expenditure per pension allowance, although mathematically more income will be higher than expenditure, and based on what currently enters, it probably covers costs for the next 5 years. But I'm saying maybe here should show one dynamic that the cost will rise because some revenues will also grow with an increase in the number of users, i.e. by transferring their savings from the second pillar to the state budget to use the pension supplement, i.e. the pension from the first pillar plus the addition to make their pensions larger. Once again at the end of my presentation, I conclude, both laws are acceptable, which are in the capacity of the realization of one goal to allow the transition from voluntary entry to the second pillar to the application of the pension in the principle of generational solidarity, i.e. under the Pension Insurance Act and the HNS-HSU Club will support these two legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78510	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78511	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Hrelja's colleague incorrectly said that he would have to be in a coalition with HDZ in order to know something. That's not true. Knowledge is acquired in various ways, in Podravina we are said to be learning while he is alive, but it is true that you knew much more while you were in the coalition with both HDZ and affirmatively talking about these laws. Your behavior resembles a loan in Swiss francs, at first a good rate of interest and then a change of course and you can see where it goes, so teaching is better not to change course.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78512	Thank you very much. No benching. Let's move forward on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78513	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I am really glad that my predecessor, the Hrelja, is pleased that these laws solve the problems of the pensioners, and it seems that all the problems of the pensioners are solved faster than when colleagues of Hrelja are no longer in coalition with HDZ. As far as these bill proposals are concerned, I must stress and repeat that they have supported the Economic Social Council, meaning all three social partners, but also supported by the National Council for Retired Persons and Older Persons. These laws correct the injustice that has been done since 2002. In the years when the then Government introduced a change in the pension system in respect of pension insurance for part of the employees, and I will remind you that all employees who were then under 40 years of age, of the meaning 1. 1. 2002. The years were necessarily included in 2. The pension insurance rate and they were to select a mandatory pension fund within 3 months to further pay their share of the contribution. Those employees who were then between 40 and 50 could also choose their mandatory pension fund within 6 months and normally participate in that 2. It's a peace stand. And it's these pensioners all these years that have become the stumbling block of the 2nd. The rate of pension insurance, especially those 1200 women, the beneficiary of pensions, whose pension is due to a short period of capitalisation of a low wage level and early retirement lower than their colleagues and colleagues, of course, who receive a pension from only the first pillar, means generation solidarity. Approximately 95 thousand insurance companies were identified for that 2. The pension insurance rate in the hope that one day they would have bigger pensions, that was why they chose the second pillar, but apparently those persons in 2002. The years were not well-educated enough, they were not well-acquainted with the fact that cost-effectiveness 2. The pension insurance rate depends primarily on the number of years of payment of the contribution and its amount and the receipt of the fund that manages this money, did not have all the luck as counterpart Hrelja said just before these two who do not generally have these problems. By all calculations, cost-effectiveness 2. The rate of pension insurance at the average salary level would be only for the 18 to 20 years of investment in the selected pension fund and everything else is questionable. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes proposed laws to the Croatian Parliament to correct the long-standing injustice, meaning to anyone who has made too short a contribution in 2. Step by step of 5% but also because of the improvement of pensions that were subsequently made in 1. Retirement insurance. For insurance companies one. The pension insurance rate, meanwhile, is an integrated 100 kuna supplement, plus 6%, then a percentage reduction in early retirement is a reduction from 0.34% to 0.15% per month before retirement, and a law on the add-on to pensions under which the right to add-on has not been achieved by what my predecessor said to users 2. The pole. Thus, the second pillar pensioners found themselves in this more unfavourable position compared to the users of the 1st pillar. The rate as compared to insurance undertakings under 40 years of age means the introduction of this compulsory pension insurance of capitalised savings. The Government of the Republic of Croatia makes these legal proposals possible for all those users 2. The peace pillars that were meant to be in 2002. Years of volunteering for this 2. Retirement insurance, and they were between 40 and 50 years old, the transition means 1. The pole. And for these 1200 women this would specifically mean that 99% of the users will have higher pension incomes from 500 to 1500 kuna per month, so their capitalised assets would be transferred from 2. It goes into the state budget. I would like to remind you that they must first make an application for a statement and that, somewhere within 90 days of the entry into force of this Law, it is necessary to take care of it. By step 2. The former member will exercise his pension rights as an insurance undertaking. On the basis of generation solidarity, the mandatory fund will transfer those capitalised assets to the state budget within 30 days through the central register, and in fact the objective of these two laws is to improve the material and social position of the insurance companies that are being transferred to the state budget in 2002. For years it's been voluntary to define for this 2. It's a peace post. The Croatian Democratic Community club unanimously supported this Government proposal, as expected by other MPs regardless of party membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78514	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78515	Well, dear colleague Kunst said that the pensioners had become a stumbling block. They are not a stumbling block but a victim of the government's inertness and incompetence to solve the problem while it is still small and exclusively willing to solve the problem ahead of the election. And secondly, Mr. Kunst said that the government is more successful in solving problems when HSU is not in the coalition. That's not exactly my people at all. But if I had known that he had really enlightened me, if I had known I would have left the coalition a long time ago but not before 31.12.2008, because all those who had received new solutions to reduce the pension for early retirement would have lost them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78516	Thank you very much. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78517	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club will also support the proposed laws as they are already told to correct certain injustices and go in the interest of the insurance company. But let me also explain the reasons for this attitude. The pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia is regulated as a three-part pension system made up of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. An important law, mandatory and voluntary pension funds have since the beginning of 2002 established mandatory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Thus, the activity of the accumulation of capital foreseen for the payment of future insurance pensions under that insurance is separate from the activity of the pension payment, which is governed by the special Pension Insurance Companies Act and pension payments on the basis of individual capitalised savings. In this way, the holders of the arranged pension system, so-called pension system. The second and third pillars include pension corporations managing pension funds and pension insurance companies paying pensions from compulsory voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual savings. According to the law, insurance undertakings which are necessarily insured under the Pension Insurance Act and who are under 40 years of age are required to be provided on the basis of individual capitalised savings in a mandatory fund that they choose and become members of that fund. In contrast, insurance companies who are 40 or older, but less than 50 years of life, may if they wish to do so on the basis of individual capitalised savings in the mandatory fund they choose. Insurance undertakings secured in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, i.e. in the first instance and compulsory pension insurance of the basic individual capitalised savings, i.e. in the second pillar, more pensions from both insurances are made. Early retirement from both mandatory pillars has thus far been achieved mainly by women who took place in 2002. Years between the ages of 40 and 50 have voluntarily defined for the second pillar. Men will begin to make early retirement from both pillars of 2012 with 60 years of age. In December 2010, insurance companies of the second pillar made an early retirement pension from the first pillar of an average amount of about 965 kuna and a pension from the second pillar in the average amount of 107 kuna. For a short time, persons who made a pension from both compulsory pillars paid a contribution to the second pillar of 5%. On the other hand, the legislative amendment implemented after 2002. For years, they have led to an increase in the first pillar’s pension. Since April 2004, an integrated 100 kuna supplement plus 6% is retired and from January 2008 to 31 October 2010. The percentage of temporary retirement cuts was reduced by 0.34% to 0.15% per month of early retirement. In addition, the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act under which the right to add to the pension does not exist for the users of the basic pension. In addition, movements in the capital market have adversely affected pension funds and pensions from that insurance. All this is due to the fact that pensions from both compulsory pillars are less than pensions that would only be made in the first pillar. Since pensions from both pillars have been made so far low, these pensioners are in a more unfavourable position compared to first-degree pensioners only, as well as insurance undertakings who were under 40 years old at the time of the introduction of compulsory pension insurance of capitalised savings, and will therefore have a longer period of capitalised amount. We at the HSS Club think it is good to allow insurance who have voluntarily entered the second pillar of pension insurance to step down from that insurance in the exercise of the right to early retirement and retirement pension under the Pension Insurance Act. This will positively reflect the material and social position of these insurance companies, which are now around 95 thousand. So there are no Croatian citizens who decided to join the second pillar again in 2002. In the years since there have been considerable changes that have improved the conditions of the first pillar. As already mentioned in the pension supplement for which pensioners from another do not have rights, it is evident that such a solution needs to be changed. This legislative proposal allows a member of the pension fund's pension fund, who, upon his request, has entered into compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, to step out of that insurance if the application for withdrawal is submitted to the central insurance register and a declaration in the process of exercising the right to early retirement and old age pension under the Pension Insurance Act. It is also proposed that after leaving the second pillar of the former member of the mandatory fund, he achieves his pension insurance rights as an insurance provided only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. Furthermore, by means of a central insurance register, the mandatory fund will transfer to the state budget the total capitalised assets from the personal account of that member of the fund within 30 days upon request. The withdrawal from the second pillar would also allow a member of a mandatory fund which is a beneficiary of a basic pension and which, on the date of entry into force of this law, did not conclude a pension agreement with a pension insurance company as well as a beneficiary of a family pension achieved after the death of an insurance undertaking, a member of the fund if the funds of capitalised contributions from the personal account of the deceased were not inherited. In view of the fact that this legislative proposal allows those insurance companies to step down from the second pillar of pension insurance, they would only be retired in the first pillar which is far more favourable to them, which they would have achieved if they had only been secured in the first pillar. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this legislative proposal, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Pension Insurance Companies and pension payments on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78518	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Given the number of discussions on reforming pension reform from the end of 1998, it reminds me of that joke when my husband, returning from the mill, beats his wife and asks himself why he beats me, says that you seduced the bag 17 times I had to tie her up. We fix someone's mistakes 17 times, and we beat the one who only made one. So, '98, late '98. with effect from 1.1.1999, a major pension reform was promoted with the help of IMF advisers and experts, the World Bank, large power centres, and then it was shown to be necessary to save the pension system in Croatia. And just a few years after that, we met with a problem that we then called new pensioners because reality was the opposite of calculations when we adopted that reform, meaning differences in the amount of pensions by old and new regulations to be negligible. And when the first people started to retire then it was seen that year after year that difference was growing, growing, and we invented a retirement supplement and we passed it through the law. The supplement is even if I'm not wrong about 27% for the year that retired. So one major anomaly of reform we once had, the bag broke apart, so we tied it up again. Not all because there were exceptions, because those who entered someone's address in the second column for this year who paid for the first column did not receive the supplement. We've never tied that bag up before or now. I now have no record of how many pensioners receive a pension allowance, which is hundreds of thousands. About 300 grand says, I just talked and... He agrees with me, when he's silent, then he doesn't agree with me, but fine. [[You don't understand.]] So 300 thousand, what kind of reform and pension system is that 300 thousand pensioners have to get an allowance, not a pension, but from now on, it's going to be a pension. These people are also in the past. That it was their retirement at first, not their supplement, because if I'm not mistaken, they've missed at least three adjustments in the height of the Swiss pension, the Swiss formula, if I'm not mistaken, not the French course when I say Swiss. There's no damage, and we didn't tie that bag up. Then it happened that some women began to retire on the basis of public calls, and especially then Minister Vidovic, that entering the second pension pillar of those who do not have to and can do a good and positive thing because it is capitalised savings, because it will receive two pensions because they will be secured for age. However, the calculation was very low, but the public calls were terribly large and there, more than 90,000 people entered the second pillar, and they shouldn't have. I published four years ago on my website because I tried to calculate on the basis of the data available at the time which have become secret since 2007, that a pension from the second pillar, if you are in the second pillar of 25 years and have an average salary only then will be profitable or positive and when an average pension from the second pillar of 530 kuna is reached that this is the most to be expected. And that's what I was saying here in Parliament, no one analyzed that calculation. Now we tie the fifth time bag and say that these 93,000 that were then between 40 and 50 years old can be in generation solidarity, those who have already gone and are receiving an average pension from, imagine 107 kuna, no compensation for the back. A bag scattered and we don't tie it up again. And that's the repair of the repair of the reform. Unfortunately, this has to be supported now because trying to save but really terrible failures is in 1998 a pension system that left the insurance concept. We no longer have pension insurance in Croatia because if we had pension insurance, then it would only rest on two elements: the amount of money you pay, the contribution you get. We've put into the pension system rights that have nothing to do with paid contributions, paid insurance, introduced a tremendously large number of privileged categories and bitten more than 50% of the insurance funds. And now I'm going to do what Silvano said, and I'm not considering the possibility of abolishing the second pillar. From 2002 to 2010, other pillars of pension insurance made contributions of 31 billion and 600 million kuna. This is HANFA's data. And on 31.12.2010, the value of the assets of all compulsory pension funds was 36 billion and 300 million. In the full seven years, they have capitalised 4.7 billion with the amount of the contribution paid and the second pillar's assets being exactly the same at the end of 2008. By 31 December 2008, the crisis and how pension funds were managed ate up until then by pension funds. And then they start from scratch. The management costs of the second pillar for 2010 amounted to a billion and 420 million kuna. The funds even paid prizes and bonuses to their agents and only after the interventions of HANFA on the burden of these funds on the market of pension funds. Based on the data on the contributions that were published by 2007 each month for each fund, and then interrupted Mr. Secretary of State 31.12.2010, the maximum contribution of one fund is 9.75. I'm not going by the name of not doing a commercial, and the lowest one is 8.09. With these annual contributions, it takes exactly 86 years for the second pillar's pension to be worth, 86 years for the second pillar's pension to be worth as much as for generation solidarity. And I end up with the next piece of HANFA. 19 billion 153 million pension contributions for the first pillar were collected for 2010. It was supposed to pay 34 billion. The state budget had to add 16 billion 260. Had it not been for the second pillar, it would have been for this 5% to go along with generation solidarity, the state should have paid only 11 billion out of the budget for generation solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78520	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78521	In your discussion, you mentioned that there were many things that had nothing to do with pension insurance in the pension column, so I would just mention the information that HZO recently presented in a report that we had here on benches in the Parliament, that every fourth pension, I think that regular pension in the Republic of Croatia is disabled. So I also asked the parliamentary representative what are the disastrous conditions of working in the Republic of Croatia that your chance to become disabled is 25% at the moment you enter the labour market. And I got a pretty unmistakable answer that all disability pensions and not disability pensions, but that these are various mechanisms from which it can be read that this is essentially some kind of quasisocial policy measure. And I would dare say that it is a shame for a country where it has reduced the doctrine of public health as the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time that we are playing with one serious thing and the measures of quasi-social policy we send people to a disability pension and we are cutting off people who have worked fairly through their majority of their working life. They were to earn an old retirement as God commands. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78522	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78523	Comrade Franic, you're absolutely right. That's what I warned you about in my debate. In fact, by reforming 1998, Croatia destroyed the pension insurance system and since then practically no longer exists, and because when you listen to a little more carefully people are actually talking more about the pension system than insurance because it has subliminally entered. For July, according to payments in July, Croatia has a million and 208,000 pensioners of which 624000 are in retirement, including those with an early retirement period of 624000 years. 255,000 disabled pensioners and 239000 family pensions. However, with 178,000 pensioners acquired under special regulations with around 8 billion kuna per year is the third category of collapse of the insurance system and it would be very good to return to the principle of pension insurance, not the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78524	Thank you very much. And another replica of the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78525	Dear colleague Lesar, I support your debate, but I would not like it to be understood that the addition to retirement is the cause of all pension problems. I think the first and basic retirement allowance was given to equate new pensioners, therefore retired after 1 January 1999 and to achieve what is very important for the pension insurance system, which is justice and equality. Because between 1999 and 2007, every insurance company, every year that went into retirement, was smaller. So the supplement is not a solution for all, but it's certainly earned, it's confirmed by all pension insurance experts, it's certainly earned, and I think it's one of the better repairs of the pension system. I remind you that, with the characteristics of solidarity, the characteristics of justice and equality, it is a feature on which the pension insurance system rests. I never said that, that is, when I thanked Mr. Secretary of State, I said that I didn't want to cancel the 2nd pillar and that I thanked him that they refused because such proposals were on the National Council for Retired People and the Elderly, but I said that we had two to four years to consider what we were going to do with the 2nd pillar, and I would be very happy that the government had accepted and moved on with that proposal, so with the working material where the reduction in the cost of managing pension funds, which you also said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78526	Thank you. Let's move on. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78527	My colleague Hrelj, if we didn't get along well when I was talking about the pension allowance, I didn't declare him undeserved, but I apostropheded him as one of the means and models of repairing the bad system that we had to do, but when he introduced himself, I was at the time pushing that it wasn't an addition, but it had to be an integral part of the pension, because he was deserved. ... Well, then there was a difference, because you were in power, in opposition, so our demands didn't have the same weight at that time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So there's no misunderstanding. As for the second pillar, you say we got two to four years of time to see what happened to him. I think we only have time for six months, because in two to four years, only by intervention or by fire measures, we're going to repair new gaps that we're going to see again, and we'd be irresponsible to wait four years, and when we see new problems to intervene only then. And thirdly, I remind myself that there was a legal restriction in my time that mandatory pension funds for management could be spent at most 5%, and that was then raised on 10 laws here in the Parliament. There was also a provision that REGOS, Mr State Secretary REGOS, was obliged to report to each insurance company on the contribution paid to him by his employer, and in 2008, and this was left out of the law, so insurance companies no longer have control over the payment of their contribution, and whose debtor is an employer. All you see is these two things to put back into the laws that we had, so in 2008, we're already on track for the second pillar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78528	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Krešimir Rozman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78529	Thank you very much. All I have to do is react to the claim that it's '98. ... '99. The pension system has been destroyed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The peace system as it existed was no longer sustainable, and it had to change necessarily. We can be critical of some solutions, some changes, so some might have been better, some less, but saying that it was destroyed, it was one really necessary measure. I mean, the conditions that existed at the time were absolutely not sustainable, they existed in these circumstances from socialism, so even from a period of incomparably higher employment, incomparably more insurance and an incomparably smaller number of pensioners. If the other conditions were 50 years of early women, 50 for full, 55 premature men, 60 men, incomparably wider and easier definition of disability, not to say in the earlier addition of internships where social problems were at the time solved through the pension system, then today that these other conditions are then today this unfavourable ratio of 1.1 to 25 would be even more incomparably unfavourable, now we can think about what the number of pensioners would be if they were now 50 years old in retirement, and men with 55 pensions would be able to collect an internship. So it wasn't about destroying the pension system, it was about the necessary maintenance of the pension system, the change was made to keep the pension system sustainable, because if it had remained the way it was then it would have collapsed after a short time, so it was really a necessary measure, no matter how happy it was or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78530	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78531	I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that you're quite convinced that it was a necessary measure. I think that is not true for one reason why Croatia did not act then in 1998 in the process of passing the law in a democratic way. The first is not enough, I witnessed that time, I did not consult enough social partners, it is said that the final decision on the law will be made in the autumn of 1998, and according to the famous manners of the Croatian Parliament, Law 15.7 was passed on the charge here, so in the spring session of the Croatian Parliament. I, you are also a participant of this process, and I remind you that there was no quality public debate at the time and that there was something left that would certainly deserve this problem a referendum of Croatia's citizens on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78532	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78533	A situation to find worse solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78534	Thank you very much. Take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78535	Vice President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78536	It is next to the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić in the individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I'm going to start by saying that I support the adoption of both of these bill proposals, for a simple reason, and that's because by adopting them in one kind of good and quality way, I'm going to give the insurance company a better, easier and better quality of life, here's what material status is all about. The colleagues who spoke before me have already explained in detail, here is colleague Kunst and colleague Hrelja in the name of the clubs that these drafts of the law are making. Therefore, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds will allow insurance undertakings that were assigned to the second pillar of pension insurance in 2002, and they were then between 40 and 50 years old to come out of the second pillar. Therefore, when exercising the right to an age or early retirement on their request, the central insurance register would transfer the funds from a personal account to the national budget and those insurance companies would only make their pension in the first pillar. The deadline for submitting such a request shall be 90 days. And here's the thing about this second bill is, as already detailed here, that this bill will allow former members of the mandatory pension funds that have made pensions from the second pillar to make pensions only from the first pillar, so from the system of generation solidarity if they ask for it themselves. It is, therefore, those 1200 users whose pension rates due to a short period of capitalisation or due to early retirement or low levels of wages achieved on average were lower than those who had pensioners who achieved their pension only in the system of generation solidarity. This way, as I have already said, the material and social position of the insurance company is improving. In this case, here are 500 to 1500 kuna per month, which is certainly not negligible. All these newspapers in these two bill proposals certainly, here I am glad to have heard here today that they will support all clubs, so as I said this newspaper will certainly bring well-being to both present and future pensioners. So here I support the adoption of both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78538	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the vice president said in the end, I won't be longer because we have indeed heard almost everything from the establishment of the pension system, so mandatory generation solidarity on the basis of individual capitalised savings, the first pillar, the second pillar and here we heard in this section that since 2002 it has therefore applied to persons who had between 40 and 50 years of life about 95 thousand who took this second pillar to enable these insurance companies and we see already 1200 insurance companies have taken any pensions to enable them to return to the first pillar. So further, it was developed here and technology also in a way that the central register and the return to the state budget. All this is clearly said in this section. It would also allow for exit from that second pension post on... the period of 90 days and the users of the basic pension that have not entered into a pension agreement with a pension insurance company as well as the beneficiaries of a family pension achieved after the death of a fund member insurance company if they have not been used by a pension under the second pillar and if the funds from a personal account have not been inherited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, they're all there, they're all there, and they've made estimates of what the costs would be, etc., it's all said, but to me, I'd kind of focus on the part where the National Council for Retired People and Persons of the Older Age took part in the realization of this whole thing. I think they have made a significant contribution and that this needs to be particularly highlighted. The Economic and Social Council, of course, gave the same agreement, but I think it should certainly highlight the therefore significant role of this National Council, which is let's say the advisory body, but in any case it is here and it says that here is the persistent, patient work in the interests of the pensioners that can be achieved a certain result. So in that sense, in the interest of the pensioners they have tried and done, of course, and as the predecessors have said, they will all support, so in that sense I imitate this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78540	Thank you. Then we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78541	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's very important to stress in this part of your debate that this government of the Republic of Croatia corrects one injustice, to this injustice, and it shouldn't have happened, that then these people, citizens who were able to identify themselves for that second pension column, meant depending on the years of life between 40 and 50 years of age, were well informed. What does that mean? That simply these people over these few years, especially these 12,000 women, will unfortunately not realize the effects expected from that second pillar. Because here's a question for you, why did the minister of that reform, who was also between the ages of 40 and 50, not choose the second pension stake but stay in the first? Because he was, because he knew it wasn't worth it to get into the second pension column. If he knew that, then he shouldn't have implemented such an aggressive one policy in the way of advertising that second pension column that people had practically piled up these things and entered that column because later on, they had become normally certain problems as especially for these 12,000 women. So it should be pointed out that this government corrects this mistake and not that it is still critical but that it corrects that error, and the error is due to the lack of information of people at the time. Because here's the best example for you is then the minister was also at that age when he had to decide whether he wanted to go to the second or he wanted to go from the second and the first or only from the first. So he stayed only from the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78542	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78543	Thank you. Well, my colleague Kunst, I think you've made it very clear that it's very important to correct the injustice. The easiest thing to do here is to put big words among us here we are for these pensioners, we are the best, we want, we need to do everything but we need to establish a dialogue. I just mentioned a National Council for Retired People, an elderly person. But it is necessary to say in addition to this correction of injustice that this government has, throughout this time of economic crisis, made it possible for pensions as they are to arrive on time and it is important to underline in this part and, as the Secretary of State said, to support the system, that the system does not collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78544	Thank you. We have another replica of the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78545	A long-term problem for a trusted colleague is under-retirement for pensions in 2. The peace pillar, however,... the problem is in 1. So as my replica, I would first read what the authors of the study on pensions held together by the Faculty of Law and Economic Sciences warned today, and say: “The problem of low pensions does not arise from 2. The Peace Pillar rather than from the way the pensions were calculated from 1. The pole. To the difference in amounts he added to a 27% pension made only by insurance companies 1. The pole. If there is no change in the pension system, the ratio of the first pension and the last salary could drop to 38% from the current 50% to 2050, which would mean that Croats will have the lowest pensions in Europe."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78546	I also thank the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78547	Thank you. I think that you have made it clear what is the long-term problem, so let it be and the economic problems are higher. The peace systems are not only in trouble with us, so please nicely, you saw in France a short time ago what happened when they started reforming the pension system and we here when we discussed a short time ago and in that sense there were also various dissonant tones. So the point is to maintain a pension system in everything. Now that there are problems, of course, but what is important is what counterpart Kunst said to correct the injustice and create a sustainable pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78548	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the appropriate conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78549	We move on to the final draft law amending the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, PZ No. 871 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the law on compulsory and voluntary pension funds. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result is this proposal was accepted by a majority of 98 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78598	We announced that we would unite points 8 and 9. Does anyone mind? There isn't. So we're going to unite points 8. And nine. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 879. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on additional pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 880. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by post, on the occasion of the establishment of the Agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. In the case of the final draft law supplementing the pension insurance law, point 8. The amendment was submitted by the HNSU Club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Kresimir Rozman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here's two points to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78599	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs, addition to a pension that has also been discussed in previous drafts of the law at a rate of 4 to 27% is determined and paid as a separate pension income on a case-by-case basis. In July this year, there were about 300,000 users of the supplement with an average amount of 351 kuna per month. This pension income has a significant impact on the material and social security of pensioners who have achieved this right since 1999. Years to date, and of course especially those who make their pension a 1. January 2010. On the basis of salaries made throughout the working life. However, this supplement, as I said, is paid as a special pension income rather than as a direct part of the pension. So the need for the supplement actually to be integrated into retirement and thus becomes, enters a different legal regime and in some way increases the safety of the recipient of the pension. As a result, it is proposed that such an integration of that pension allowance, which would have had several consequences for pensioners, an increase of one of the security of such pensions or pensions, that part to become part of the pension, could be as the whole pension used for credit and the like, the truth, on the other hand, that supplement would also be so that the job part of the pension would be larger than the untaxable amount, so more than 3200 kuna would be taxable then it was now, however, that is, of course, one logical consequence and the necessary consequence of including that allowance in retirement and, on the other hand, it was one logical and fair solution because if one person has a pension of 3400 it is taxable and if, together with the supplement, it was not taxable, it was not taxable. And finally, to say, it is necessary to amend two laws, the Pensions Supplement Act, the Pension Insurance Act, there is everything in one and the other simply to decide that the supplement is an integral part of the pension. And finally, let me also say these laws were discussed on the Economic and Social Council and, of course, on the National Council for Retired People and Elderly Persons who explicitly supported such a legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78600	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first of all, it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSN-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78601	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Of course, we all agreed that this would be a united discussion of two laws that deal with one problem and which should be solved, and of course, which we didn't have to come up with otherwise, but we didn't. So now things have to be solved another way. Namely, the initiator of equating new pensioners amongst themselves, so those retired after 1 January 1999 in the former coalition government was exactly HSU and our basic proposal was a one-time increase in pensions from 8% to 38% with it started in negotiations with the government sometime in June 2007. So, never the original idea was to edit it with an add-on. The government then interpreted the inability to put this into retirement with the demands of the financial institutions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. I never found out it was a real request or not, because I didn't get any evidence of it. So the light was given an allowance to pensions of 4 to 27%, and it was usually placed with its 90% in the same position all retired after 1 January 1999. So, in some ways, equality has been achieved in rights among new pensioners, while there is still a difference between old and new because the old pensioners have been installed in the Institute between 0.5 and 20%, which is one of the first additions that the coalition government has built in. And an addition of 100 kuna and 6% that was incorporated into the base in the 4th month of 2004. You have to be honest and say that since the current addition, the pensioners haven't had any harm, that we understand each other. First, since it was a four-year-old supplement, no one paid tax on an allowance. So, he only paid taxes if his basic pension went beyond three thousand, 200 kuna without an allowance. Secondly, the supplement is a good product because it followed the base because it was determined as a percentage on the base. So, if the base is adjusted automatically, it increases in a certain percentage as well. So there was no damage here. It's just about legal certainty. Why about legal certainty? Because if it disappears or ceases to apply, this supplement is nowhere to be found in the basic solution and can come out of the story. So ambition was also retirement associations, because I know because that's what I've been doing since that year 2007 and the proposal is to keep it on the ground. This isn't going to fit into the basics. With the amendments and additions of these two laws, I would dare say more strongly joins the addition to the basics, and the amendment that we have given, if the Proposer wishes to accept the amendment would definitely end the story with the Law on Supplement as a special law. In fact, we have given an amendment in which the addition to the pension base would be given a solution. Then the story would certainly be legally 100% over, because it is one of the stronger guarantees that the pensioners will in any case exercise their rights. What is an advantage is the same, although pensioners will receive slightly less money from the adoption of this law, as it is the assumption that 300 thousand or 70 thousand in total pension incomes will cross the line of the untaxable 3,000 200 and pay the tax, so they will get less. So the state will save some money. The reason to vote, and rather vote on this law with the adoption of amendments, because it really has a purpose is to strengthen legal certainty. And another maybe not so important right for all pensioners but for a few probably do. What do you get out of this? So this is obtained in case the pensioner needs a consumer loan then his basis for the loan will certainly be higher than before, because so far the supplement has not been calculated and could not be shown to the bank as a pension basis. Right, right, former minister, that's how it worked, but now it's going to work because it says so in the law now. So I say we'd rather raise our hands for this law with the adoption of the amendment. Come on, gentlemen, don't make this one a problem, so I suppose everyone in this Croatian Assembly will be very happy to support these two bill proposals to finally adopt them unanimously. I think that pensioners can only say hello, but when they suffer some minimal damage and their pensions to those who have over 3,000 kunas will be somewhat less, at least have compensation in one right that exists somewhere on paper that isn't virtual. So, with this recommendation, I believe you understood the message. I think the HNS-HSU club could support these two bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78602	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78603	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. These additions to the law to pensioners who receive a pension allowance are integrated into the amount of pension as its component and so far has been said by all predecessors who spoke of it before me. Thus, the supplement as receiving is equated in everything with pension and becomes an integral part of it. I would like to remind you that the pension allowance is paid with a pension from 1 October 2007, which is precisely the goal of paying off that allowance to remove the difference between the pensions that a colleague of Hrelja was talking about just now under the Pension Insurance Act, which occurred since '99. the years due to the gradual extension of the accounting period for the calculation of the pension on the basis of the points established for each calendar year. The application of the Retirement Act of 1 October 2007 mitigated the differences between pensions reached by 31 December 1998 according to previous pension insurance and pension rules reached from 1 January 1999 under the applicable rules on that insurance. The pension allowance, as has already been said, increased pensions from 4% immediately in 1999 to 27% depending on the year in which the pension was granted. In November 2010, the pension allowance was used by 370,000 pensioners, and now it is now used somewhere by about 300 thousand pensioners with an average amount of 351 kuna. The pension allowance is not determined at the maximum pension currently amounting to Croatia 17750,56 kuna, but neither in the case where the amount of pensions towards internship and salary is combined with an add-on of less than the minimum pension, then the minimum pension currently amounting to 1333,56 kuna is still paid, so there is this difference in fact between the lowest and the highest pension today in Croatia 13.3 times. It's weird, but it's weird. So far, the fact that the supplement is determined and paid as a separate income has led to certain differences between pensioners, and that is why this supplementing pension insurance law will make it an integral part of the pension as I have already said and will have a significant impact on the material and social security of pensioners. That's the same thing a colleague of Hrelja used to say about random loans, etc. Which means they've achieved that right since '99. the years to date, and in particular those who make their pension from 1 January 2010 on the basis of salaries made throughout the working life. Finally, the laws have been in force since the beginning of next year, and given this commendable intervention by the Government, the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community club unanimously supported the proposed laws, and this is also proposed by the representatives of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78604	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78605	No matter how small a detail, it's not that important, but it's worth knowing. Therefore, the pension allowance is also calculated on all the lowest pensions, only not paid if the sum of the allowance and what I specifically earned by the contributions is less than the minimum pension. Just to explain the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78606	Individual debate, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I said in the previous debate, colleagues of Hrelja and colleagues of Kunst really explained in a comprehensive and detailed way the changes and additions and these two laws that we are discussing. So the pension allowance in the amount, ranging from 4 to 27%, is determined and paid as a separate pension income, with a corresponding pension in a particular case. It is used by about 300 thousand users in an average amount of about 351 kuna. This pension income has a significant impact on the material and social security of pensioners who have achieved this right long ago in 1999 until today. However, monitoring the implementation of the pension insurance system has shown the need to integrate this supplement into retirement as part of it and, as counterpart Hrelja said, this will provide insurance with one legal certainty, so they will gain one legal certainty. Therefore, the pension allowance is determined and adjusted and paid in the same way as the pension, so there is no reason why it would not be classified as an integral part of the pension. In view of such a proposal for this law, the amendment and addition of this law should also be complemented accordingly by the Pension Insurance Act. I therefore support the adoption of both of these draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78608	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78609	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here and I will join this agreement that this supplement is integrated into a pension that all predecessors have said. So it's about the 2007 law and we've heard everything from this 4% to 27%, and we've heard that 300 thousand users with an average of 351 kuna and I can say that from personal contact I've heard from many pensioners that welcome this decision, because I think it's important this moment here's what counterpart Lukacic said to emphasize legal certainty but also this. So the possibility of credit and other options that are in that part. It is also necessary to repeat, perhaps, that this pension income has a significant impact on the material, social security of pensioners, therefore, from 1999 to today. Therefore, the monitoring of the implementation of the pension insurance system indicated the need to integrate this supplement into the amount of pension as its component. The fact that the supplement is determined, paid as a separate income, therefore leads to certain reasons amongst pensioners. And therefore, since everything is said to me and to this occasion, I want, therefore, a prominent and positive contribution from the National Council for Retired People and people of older age who have also shown with this approach therefore a concern for those who need it. And in that sense, I will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78610	Correction Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78611	I have one correction to the incorrect quote, because Mr. Milinkovic says in style that everything happens after there is a National Council for Retired and Older Persons. I understand him because he supports his neighbor who is president of that National Council. I'm glad he has good neighbourly relations, too. But the fact that these requirements existed before and that the basic requirements for the addition to pension existed in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78612	Final review, State Secretary Mr. Rogman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78613	Thank you very much. Not going into it when there were which demands we do not dispute at all, but we believe that the existence of the National Council for Retired and Older Persons is very useful. So that one such body is important to contribute to the improvement of the entire system, therefore cooperation and initiatives for change and that the voice of these people should be heard through one such body. I'd just say that there's no need for a solution, no need for such costs and such administration. Therefore, all pensioners will be informed of the pension income, and such notice and the administrative court, as shown in the ruling, accepts as relevant evidence in the proof of pension. So we think it's enough to get rid of it the usual way after changing these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78614	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78615	So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary of State's incorrect allegations that such a National Council for Retired Persons is necessary. The National Council for Pensioners is needed and can be a civilizational reach for Croatia right now. However, not without experts, not with the majority of the government, because it is the government's advisory body and not with political parties that were not even registered at the time of its establishment. With such representatives and in such a way is not necessary, and the National Council for Retired and Older Persons is needed in general and can be a civilizational reach of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78616	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78617	We move on to the Final Bill on the Completion of the Pension Insurance Act. It was an emergency procedure, PZ number 879. The debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the HNS HSU Representatives Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary, Amendment of the Club of Representatives refers to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, this amendment proposes that the changes that will happen by supplementing the pension become an integral part of the pension to give a solution to each pensioner. The amendment is not accepted, the legal provision itself is as the first guarantee thus creating considerable administrative costs, significant administration and costs, and we should also say that each pensioner will receive a notice of pension income in which that supplement will now be included in retirement, and that notice is evidence in court that it and the Administrative Court have long decided. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78619	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Silavono Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78620	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is not true that only the legal provision guaranteed that the supplement was incorporated into retirement, though. This only makes it a little stronger to join the pension supplement, the basic pension. The real guarantee would be to issue a solution to the new amount of pension, and then it really becomes a single body. There is still a danger that at any time someone abolishes the Law of Supplement and automatically has nothing to join the pension. But I think that in your answer you have in some way demeaned a large public institution, which is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which can make this job quality and within an appropriate period of time. I'm sorry you turned down the amendment like that. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78621	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78642	We're going to the next point. Six. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions of certain, i.e. made under specific rules on pension insurance, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 872. Proposers of the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on War Veterans, Law, Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Krešimir Rogman will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78643	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Law on the reduction of pensions established or implemented under specific rules in pension insurance applicable from 1 July 2010 provides for the reduction of pensions made under the special rules of 10%. But even then, some exceptions were incorporated, so those pensions would not be reduced. First of all, it's high not to reduce pensions less than 3 and a half thousand kuna, and three categories per content. Therefore, there is no reduction in the pensions of Croatian war invalids from the Homeland War and wartime wartime disabled with damage to the body of 100%, and pension under the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance and Rights... in the Istrian coal mines of Tuljek and pensions determined under the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These two last categories, so miners and workers who worked with asbestos mostly enter that first category of pensions up to 3 and a half thousand kuna. Now these amendments to the law propose another exception, so that pensions are not reduced to members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children without both parents. So, just that category, and for the reason that children are dead Croatian defenders without both parents and one special social group that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to care for while they are in regular education and which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Therefore, it is proposed to exempt that category of users from reducing pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78644	War veteran committees? For work and social partnership? Legislative. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78645	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I have to go back to the time when this law was passed at all in the Croatian Parliament, I know that the entire opposition in the Croatian Parliament was against the adoption of this law and that here from this pay phone is conditioned if it will be a reduction for, only for parliamentary representatives, former members of the government and constitutional judges, then we will all unanimously raise that hand. At that time, we felt that by passing this law that we're changing today, we were sending a very bad message that that retired cop who has 4 thousand kunas would be taken away from him because he was actually a bad cop, as if it wasn't earned, that that soldier who has 4 and a half thousand kunas would be reduced his pension by 450 kuna, that that defender who had, say, 5 thousand kunas would be reduced by 500 kunas, and the message was very bad, that he was actually a bad defender and that he was a bad worker before that, because he wasn't just on the basis of being a defender getting that money. So we were against it, today we'll be in. Why are we gonna be in? At least we're at the HNS club, HSU. Because one category is excluded from taking 10%. Why were we still against it? We were against it because the one who had 3 thousand 550 kunas was taken 50 kunas, so more than 10%, so the disproportionateness of taking and something else. This law has a mistake. What this government did was nothing new in our Croatian parliamentary practice was done by previous governments, but there was one, one fuse, a fuse that provided that if something was a privilege, it could be reduced, but there was no reduction in the pension earned under the general rules. So you can't reduce the pension made under the general rules, and believe me, we're individual categories, so the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of this law has put individual categories below the level of rights that you would have to achieve only by general rules. They may be among the defenders, possibly among the soldiers, so the Croatian Army's pensioners, may have them in the native army, but I'm sure there are a number among the NOR participants who currently have some 35,000 pensions to pay. I remind you this is the third time, the third time that the pensions of the NOR participants are coming down, 5, 10, and now 10% again. So I think it's inadmissible, because the basic postulate and basic sanctity of the pension insurance system is the security of receiving based on what I've paid through my lifetime, or working life, and we have to set that fuse up. So the second observation why we left out so hasty, and this law was passed by emergency procedure, left out 100 people, 100 children of the dead defenders, we didn't have to do it, we should have been aware at the time that it was wrong against them, and they put me almost on the gallows when I said it was weird that these changes were being made at the time of the election campaign, as if I were against this. I'm not against it. I'm not against it, but I have a problem with some sensitive issues dealing with an emergency procedure. And that's why I'm asking you, dear secretary of state, who understands this issue, to take seriously this amendment that is now protecting the pension insurance system, which protects the pensioner, who says no, not the pensioners for the pension system, but the pension system for the sake of the pensioners, and he, by the rule of the service, must protect them. So it's a public institution of insurance and pensioners. He is also not a state-owned institution that should give priority to the government over the individual. So I ask you, we will vote both way and anyway because we don't want to play and we don't want to blackmail at this point on 100 people who need to be excluded from a pension reduction, but I am asking you to professionally consider our amendment, because I think it is in a function of fairness and in the function of protecting what is most valuable in the pension system, and that is a pension earned by the payment of contributions over the years and it must be sacred, and it cannot be because one pension has a small benefit. I remind you of NOB fighters' pensions are most of the cases of pensions made and then it's a combat supplement, but imagine 5, 10%, and another 10% reduction. There's a great possibility, there's a huge possibility that it's entered the substance, so the pension that's earned by the contributions has been reduced. I think this amendment is a contribution to the justice of the pension system and to the functionality of the pension system as a function of protecting the rights of pensioners. Here I recommend myself, I said that no matter how you decide on the amendment we will not play with the rights of these 100 children defenders, they should be excluded, but I ask you to consider this amendment professionally well because it is useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78646	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78647	... that you were against the adoption of this law because of your sensitivity to Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders, family members. [[Specially enabled.]] You were for purely political reasons and policies that you still use today to make amends for everything you have stated and what the children of the dead Croatian defenders have said to you,... Because you said it had something to do with this direct purchase of the electoral body, their political favors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are your words that you said in the media, probably in front of a coalition that represents the same interests. Don't sing praises today because you clearly said what you thought, how you decided then. I certainly can't make excuses for you today. And it is incorrect that you are not against the return of 10% of Croatian defenders without both parents. You were clearly then in the same function as today, in function that you have neither sensitivity nor sentiment towards those who are the most severe victims of the Homeland War. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78648	Thank you. The HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78649	Mr. Vice President, once again, the secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So this human initiative to amend the law came from the Association of Croatian Defence Associations from the Homeland War Zagreb and the Association of Children of the Dead and Missing Croatian Defences of the Homeland War, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just accepted such a one human initiative. I will remind you that certain groups of insurance companies are entitled to retire except under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act under favourable conditions. These favourable conditions are also prescribed by special regulations. According to the Pension Reduction Act, which was reached under specific pension rules and since 1 July 2010, pensions have decreased by 10% and pension cuts are not subject to pensions of 3500 kuna per month, pensions of Croatian wartime wartime persons from the Homeland War and wartime people with damage to the body of 100%, pensions under the Law on Special Rights of Pension Insurance and Rights based on the unemployment of employees in Istrian coal mines "Tupljak d.d. Labin’ and pensions under the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. The reduction in pensions was unfortunately also related to children of Croatian defenders who lost both parents in the Homeland War. These children are a particularly sensitive social group for which the Republic of Croatia has taken parental care and parental restraint obligations while they are in regular schooling and for 12 months since the completion of regular school leave if they are unemployed. State care for these children rests on the provision of material and other rights and, above all, the right to family disability and family pensions. Those rights may be applied for up to 27 years of life. Since the end of the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to support more than 185 children, and is currently taking care of 100 children of dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have lost both parents. The proposed law regulates the suspension of the reduction of family pensions of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children without both parents who are made according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. So this most vulnerable social group of children who have been killed will receive a full family pension since October 1st. The government of the Republic of Croatia will provide 265,000 kuna for the implementation of this law by the end of this year in the state budget, which will be at an annual level of millions and 57 thousand kuna. Such a decision by the government of the Republic of Croatia is to welcome as well as any care about these children, 80% of whom are educated in higher schools. But I must also say that it is unacceptable for individual members to consider such a human and fair decision by the government a pre-election move, a trick to buy an electoral body. It must be clear to anyone who is very serious that 100 children who are not all of whom are not even full of age, so they will not be able to choose in the elections, they cannot have a significant impact on the election result. So these children should not be afraid of the "Kukuriku coalition". The sadder fact is that although the Association of Children of the Dead and Missing Croatian Defendants of the Homeland War has requested that the "Kukuriku coalition" be fenced from such an attitude and stepped up their "petal" and thus showed little respect and decent care for the biggest victims of the Homeland War, and these are children without both parents who have lost parental warmth and care, unfortunately no one from that "Kurikurik coalition" has been able to take care of and apologize. Apparently, they don't care about these children or their individuals getting more and more granulated as ravens than they should be cowards as singers. And finally, I say the HDZ Club unanimously supported this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it expects other representatives regardless of party membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78650	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78651	So I am correcting that there is a responsibility for people, I am proud to be in the "Kukurik coalition", but these imputations and clucking by Mr. Kunst are unacceptable because it is not true that we are against and that it is ever said but that it may look like buying pre-election votes. And that's what Mr. Djakic now quoted himself as saying. So, give yourselves some imagination, read a little between the lines, and don't break down, don't hunt witches, please, because it's neither the place nor the time. The Croatian Parliament deserves a little better discussion on these issues. And I'd like to ask you something else, what is your responsibility in this whole story? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78652	An individual debate. Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I support the adoption of the bill for one simple reason why here are these 100 children of the dead Croatian defenders, children who have lost both parents, which allows them I will say here one perhaps for a shade of a better quality life, although I think Croatia rules this reduction that happened 1. July 2010. In the years it has not stopped caring for these 100 children of the dead Croatian defenders, but as we all know the situation was such that the pensions of Croatian defenders and other pensions that were made according to special regulations were reduced by 10% and that the Croatian government had received support for this. Certainly the Croatian government has been for many years, and we were all able to see for ourselves that it has shown exceptional concern about both Croatian defenders and children of the dead Croatian defenders. At these times, it has simply proved possible to exclude this category from the reduction, the reduction of pensions and I therefore support the adoption of a amendment to this Law and I believe that these 100 children, these 100 children whom Croatia still cares about, will be satisfied. I would also not be able to say that it is a pre-election trick but this government has shown a long number of years and the Prime Minister a special and special concern for both Croatian defenders and such a sensitive group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78654	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78655	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am going to join this consent here, and there's no need to read between the lines or we are or we're not, and we all really are. So we've heard all about this 2010 law. Which reduces 10%, and we have heard about four types of exceptions and these below 3 and a half thousand kunas, Croatian wartime wartime wartimes of the Homeland War and military disabled with damage to the body of 100% and therefore, miners of the Tuljek mines and these workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos. Unfortunately, in the category of those who were covered by this law, the members of the family of the dead defenders of the homeland war and children without both parents were members of the family. Here is also with this, since children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders without both parents are a special social group to which the Republic of Croatia has made a regular commitment to care until they are regularly educated, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, this law also requires the exception. We heard that it would be by the end of the year, there were simulations of 265,000 so in the next year million and 57 thousand, and as I said, I agree with all the predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78656	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Reduction Act, which has been reached under specific rules on pension insurance. Namely, praise was worth the initiative was the Association of widows and children of the dead Croatian defenders who took the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia to do something better to lead the initiative and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the government adopted the initiative and found opportunities to reduce this category by 10% and these are 100 children without both parents who died in the home war, it is certainly commendable when possible. The possibility comes out of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, and this Law has also experienced what it needs to return to that category as it will in the coming periods of the future when economic recovery is experienced with an even greater coefficient certainly with the initiative and for the return and all categories of victims from the Homeland War. This reduction was also spoken by all the associations in the Homeland War and were participants and understanding the crisis situation in the Republic of Croatia, they accepted a 10% reduction unanimously and no one made any remarks on the 10%. There were objections to those previous 6 or some other percentages and we discussed it in this Croatian House and then I did not hear Mr. Hrelje's cowardice. I didn’t hear a lot of others who are with him in the coalition today and when he talks and corrects his colleague Kunst and everyone else I would just like to quote what the president of the Children’s Association without both parents said, she said: “I don’t know what the intention is to come forward but those statements are at least offensive and malicious, and they show absolute disrespect and bully people against children without both parents who call certain groups of people and media privileged. ” It's a reaction to your actions you've done in public. Today, we can say that the proposed law establishing the termination of the family pensions of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders of the homeland war, children without both parents who are made according to the Law on the Rights of the Croatian defenders certainly comes in the possibility of a state budget and financial effects that are not large or terrible but have not been possible before will surely be such a possibility in the future according to all other categories such as the Croatian military disabled, regardless of the percentage as all those who receive more than 3 and a half thousand when they are acquired in the Republic of Croatia the conditions of economic progress that we expect. I would like to point out that the mistakes that occur in the moments of non-serious unread law, lack of guidance in the number of users certainly have the effect of such excursions that talk about politicizing with a group of children without both parents and putting them in an indirect relationship with the purchase of a voting body. It's absolutely as we've heard, a lie of fiction and these children are once again shocked by Mr. Hrelja's statements coming from the Kukuriku coalition and that again with this way insults their wounds that have never healed or can heal. I would just like to warn that such incompetent people who represent the retirement population, who have not been retired for days, who do not know how to share with them any of their problems and their problems, certainly many times, we have heard and today speak by heart of things that are certainly not standing, and I believe that the Secretary of State will say something about these failures made for this pay phone by Mr. Hrelje. I believe that also the head of the Kukuriku coalition, who has been working for only one year as an intern at the Trade Court for 9 months at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 3 years and 9 months at the SDP. It's a full-time internship and the competence of your leader who predicates as the future prime minister. Therefore, I would like to say that curving by the Hrelja as well as by the main ancestors in the coalition, especially at the expense of these socially sensitive categories of Croatian society, is not appropriate and is shocking for the entire society, especially for the victims' population of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78658	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78659	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78660	Yeah, sure. I'm not a judge. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78661	Mr Djakic is not correct that this amendment to this law is the result of economic recovery. It's about you attacking me personally at the Kukurik coalition clearing your conscience. I call you to account. Where were you as a protector of the defense population, and I was also a defender, when this law was passed as an emergency procedure, that you did not exempt by amendment or by acting within your HDZ club from protecting and exempting these 100 children in time? And don't arbitraryly interpret the statements. I stand behind every word I've said and don't take my words out of context.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78662	You see, now you have also used very sharp words like Mr. Djakic used. Political qualification in the political game. Now you would, you can't tell on a gram whether it's exactly the same or not. I plead that the blade ends on one good level. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78663	Mr Vice President, the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 have been injured. In fact, Mr. Hrelja used the possibilities of breaching the Rules of Procedure to comment on my debate, and he did not claim anything or even named it as the injured Rules of Procedure. I would like to stress that surely this possibility of his that you have allowed to comment on my debate is certainly for the business responsibility that you are able to do. I want to say that I believe that such an opportunity will be confirmed and punished by all those who are scolding children and who are talking about something that was not there. I said the Homeland War Associations and the Children's Association without both parents agreed to a 10% reduction. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78664	Okay. Mir, the same colleague Djakic, a colleague of Hrelja, has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure by claiming that you have spoken offensively about him, not because of that. It's not because he didn't coordinate with you. So, it's not even about this case, it's not about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, it's about a little more intense discussions in the evenings of revolutionary electoral movements. Final review of the State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78665	Thank you. My colleague Djakic did not correct me, because he only commented on a statement from my debate because the facts are not being corrected. And I don't know why he got hurt here. I didn't even name him in my debate, but apparently he's a remorseful...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78666	Are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78667	A colleague Djakic said I was corrected by Hrelj. I'm saying he didn't correct me. He just commented from my debate my statement. But I can't make things right because it's a fact that says so.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78668	Mr. Rogman, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78670	Please just don't treat each other with compliments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78671	I would just like to refer to the proposal to put in place a provision in the law that the amount of pension cuts cannot be less than the amount of pension achieved by the general rules on pension insurance. First of all, it's definitely like that. Therefore, any person who has a pension under specific regulations continues to retain his pension according to general rules. Therefore, when requesting such a calculation, they will receive a pension under the general regulation. Therefore, obtaining a pension under a special regulation did not lose pension under the general regulation. In a practical sense, when we look at this reduction, those that would be covered by the decrease and it's hardly conceivable that there are such ones, because the first limit is 35,000 kuna, below it is not diminished. Maybe if we watched the average retirement of some categories, e.g. Members of the Croatian Homeland Army in '41, '45, their average pension is 2165. The average pension is otherwise 160, let's say... They're in that category, but they're not shrinking at all. [[You don't understand.]] The average pension of NOR 2670 participants, but those persons are not touched by those who have that pension but by those who have above... Of course, there are taller and lower ones, but since under 3500 kunas don't depreciate at all, so such persons are practically not, so that's a practical question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the other thing, if we were to introduce it into the law then for every person who is a user of a pension under a special regulation, who enters a circle of reductions, so they are more than 3500 kuna with exceptions to those who do not reduce, so they had to make those double calculations. These people have 170 thousand, now reduced to this number that is not reduced, so it's a huge job that simply cannot be done now, and I repeat, it remains the right for everyone if they think that their pension under the general regulations is more favourable to submit such a request and will receive a more favourable pension. This is why I propose that the law be adopted in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78672	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78673	I cannot accept this as impossible and to install this amendment for one reason, because now if it remains as the proposed law, you will force 80-year-olds or their widows to go check on the Croatian Pension Office which has no regulated access in all cities to check whether their pension with a reduction of 10% is less than what they would get under the general rules. Look, you are proving the thesis that citizens are here for the sake of the state, or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, instead of proving the thesis that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution of insurance and pensioners who protect their rights, primarily those based on paid contributions throughout the year. So I'm just setting you up backwards. It is not the Croatian Institute, they are not citizens for the sake of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and are not citizens for the sake of this Government, but it is the other way around. Both the government and the Retirement Office are here for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78674	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 11. Final draft law on protection against light pollution and voting at 12 o'clock. Now we'd like to vote on the debated agenda points. First, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions established or implemented under specific rules on pension insurance is an emergency procedure, the debate is concluded, in accordance with Article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in the decision on this Act and, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, provide that the following conclusion is to be given to the resources set out in the proposed Law: the Croatian Parliament finds that the funds provided for in 2011. A year for the implementation of the obligations set out in the final draft of the Law amending the Pension Reduction Act, as defined in specific pension rules. I am putting the table to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? With 73 votes in favour, a proposed conclusion. This meets the business assumptions for deciding on this legislative proposal. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the CNS HSU. I would like the representative of State Secretary Kresimir Rogman to be shown about the amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78676	Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives relating to Article 2 Where the word “lippad” is replaced by the word “1”. November, therefore, that the Law applies from 1. Cold, acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78677	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78678	The amendment of the HNS-HSU Club concerns the addition of Article 2(2) to paragraph 1 that the amount of pension cuts cannot be less than the amount of pensions made by the general rules on pension insurance. This amendment is not accepted for a simple reason, it is already so. Anyone who has a pension under a special regulation has the right to retire under the general rule. And if it is smaller under a special regulation, it may request a pension under the general rule. And the obligation to account for each user of a special pension would be technically an incredibly large problem for which there is no need. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78679	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? No one. Thank you. The amendment was not accepted. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down or reached under specific rules on pension insurance. Who's in favor of this bill? Thank you. Against? There's no quorum. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing 12th at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Multi-Fundure Channel Dunav-Sava.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78680	And now I ask you to vote on the crossed and closed agenda points. I move on to the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down, i.e. by specific rules in pension insurance. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 872. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 139 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament prior to the decision on this Act and, on the basis of the Report of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, determines that funds are provided to fulfil the obligations under the proposed law. I am giving the following conclusion to the above: The Croatian Parliament confirms that the appropriations provided in 2011 for implementing the commitments set out in the final draft law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down or reached under specific rules on pension insurance. I am voting on the table. Please, let's get involved and vote. So, we'll always go to the electronic vote first, if we don't do it then we'll raise our hands. Here you go. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 76 votes in favour and one abstention. We move on to the final draft law, so the business assumptions for deciding on this bill have been met. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the CNS HSU. I'd like a representative of the motionary, Secretary of State Kresimir Rogman to make a statement on the amendments. First amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, as referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78681	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This amendment provides for the application of the Law on Entry into force to become November 1st instead of 1st. The amendment is accepted with an amendment to be adopted on 1 December, for objective reasons the Law would not be able to be signed and published.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78682	I beg your pardon, is it the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78683	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78684	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. We have an amendment to Article 1 of the HNSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78685	This amendment should determine that pensions established under a specific regulation when reductions cannot be less than those laid down in the general regulation. The amendment is not accepted, all who are entitled to pension under specific rules shall be entitled to pension under the general regulation if it is more favourable for them and may, where appropriate, request that such pension be calculated and, in practice, there is virtually no such pension. If for each of the large numbers of those who had reduced their pensions under this Law, we must especially count, although this has no practical needs, it would be an extremely large and unnecessary job for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78686	Thank you. In front of the club Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78687	Mr. Secretary of State you have just demeaned a large institution in Croatia, which is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which has more than 3000 employees and is its duty to prevent, under official duty, the user of pensions from having less pensions than he deserves under the general rules. What you're saying is a deviation from practice so far, and indeed the amendment wouldn't be any proposal and there wouldn't have to be any alibi because we suggested it. We suggested something useful so that people of 80 years don't have to leave alone and see if they have 10% reduced pensions less than what they deserve by paying contributions through their working days. I'm sorry I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-29-0.u78688	Thank you. By raising your hands. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions determined or made according to specific rules in pension insurance. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against along with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the 24th session with the agenda point announced, and it reads - 11. Final proposal of the Law on protection against light pollution, second reading, P.Z. No. 699 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
