ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70690	Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. I am opening the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-Presidents and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs and MPs, I invite you to pay our respects to the recently deceased former parliamentary representative and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Mr. Ivica Gazi. - A minute of silence - - May eternal praise be to him and glory! The 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament was held at the session. Any objections to the minutes of the 22nd session? If not, I would like to say that we have adopted the minutes of the 22nd session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I would like to stress that the new points are proposed in the final draft agenda, which did not contain the draft agenda that you received with a call printed in bolder letters. In the final draft agenda, I included 13 new points under regular number 1, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 15, 17 to 21 and point 25. These are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 742 points 1, then Proposal for a Law on Social Care, first reading, P.Z. No. 746 point 5, Proposal for a Law on a special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 751 point 6, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Reconstruction, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 744 point 8, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, with the final proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 738 point 10, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 740 point 11, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Dugoya Vasa, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 743 point 15, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 737 point 17, Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Service Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 736 point 18, Proposal for a Law amending the State Aid Act, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 739 point 19, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the municipal economy, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 745 point 20, Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 741 point 21, Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, applicant: National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, point 25. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 1 to 3 and 16 to 21 shall state the laws proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure. These are the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, with the final proposal for a Law, paragraph 1, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Explanation, with the final proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 729, point 2, Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on extradition, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 733, point 3, Proposal for a law on the special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 751, point 6, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Return of Refugees from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the final proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 728 point 7, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Reconstruction, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 744, point 8, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulatory Professionals and Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications, with the final proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 730, point 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 738, point 10. Proposal for a law amending the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. 740, point 11. Proposal for a law prohibiting and preventing the renewal of unregistered activity, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 731, point 12. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Programme for Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration (ISA), with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 732, point 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on police cooperation, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 734, point 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Longoja Vasa, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 743, point 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 735, point 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 737, point 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Service Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 736, point 18. Proposal for a law amending the State aid Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 739, point 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the municipal economy, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 745. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 741, point 21. Also emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? There isn't. A motion for an emergency procedure. Therefore, I would like to stress that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regular professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 730th point 9th and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State aid with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. In accordance with Article 161 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the European Parliament and the Council are to be adopted by the European Parliament and by the Council within a period of six months from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Please engage to check the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. 105, we have a quorum, we can decide. First, we move to deciding whether any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, P.Z. point (b) is replaced by the following: There isn't? We vote. What? I suggest we vote on the urgency of the hand-lifting procedure because we're going to cut back a little bit, so here's who's to applying the emergency procedure to the adoption of this law on legal persons' responsibility for criminal offences? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? 122 unanimous. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Privileges, P.Z. No. 729nd point 2? If there's no handlifting who's to include the emergency procedure of this point? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity 123. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on Extradition, P.Z. No. 733rd point 3? If there's no one who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure in passing this law? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Accepted unanimously with 124 votes. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis P.Z. No. 751th, paragraph 6.? If there's no one for this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Accepted unanimously with 124 votes. Any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the return of refugees from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, P.Z. No. 728th point 7 of the draft agenda? There isn't. Who's in favor of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. The proposal has been adopted unanimously with 123 votes. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Reconstruction, P.Z. No. 744.8? There isn't. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand? Against? Restraint? There isn't. An accepted proposal unanimously with 123 votes. Any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, P.Z. No. 738 point 10? If there's no one to suggest urgency, would you please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Thank you. Restraint? The proposal was unanimously accepted, 123 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools, P.Z. Number 740, item 11? If there isn't, who's for this emergency proposal, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. It's one-on-one with 123 votes. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of the conduct of unregistered activities of P.Z. Number 731, point 12? If he doesn't, please let him raise his hand. Thank you. Please don't be difficult for you, we won't be long, but those who don't want to lift up and drop in one Parliament at any moment and tell us don't put your hands down there's more to vote on. So we can keep it and we're done. Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. I apologize, but this procedure has to be done, so be patient a little longer. Does anyone have any abstentions? There isn't. It's one-on-one with 122 votes. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Understanding Memorandums between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration (ISA), No 732, paragraph 13? There isn't. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 124 votes. Any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Police Cooperation, P.Z. Number 734, point 14.? If there isn't, who's in favour of this proposal, please raise your hand. Against? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 124 votes. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Dugoya Vasa, P.Z. 743, point 15. If not, who is for this item of the agenda, or emergency, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was accepted unanimously with 125 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, P.Z. Number 735, point 16? If not, who's in favor of an emergency? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. With 125 votes, the proposal was accepted. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure, in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. Number 737, point 17.? If there isn't, who's for this emergency proposal, please raise your hand. Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. The result? 125 for, unanimously. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Service Act, P.Z. Number 736, point 18? If there isn't, who's in favor of an emergency, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. A 125-vote proposal was unanimously accepted. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the municipal economy, P.Z. Number 745, point 20? If not, who's in favor of an emergency application? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was unanimously accepted with 125 votes. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs, and activities in spatial planning and construction, P.Z. Number 741, point 21? If not, who's in charge of the emergency procedure? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was unanimously accepted with 125 votes. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session, in points 1, 6, 8, 10, 11, 15, and from 17 to 21, we have declared ourselves to vote on urgency. Do any of the representatives have objections at points 5 and 25, the final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda, which you received with the invitation to this session? These are the proposals of the Social Welfare Act, P.Z. No. 746, and Report on the work of the National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established, and in accordance with Article 205(2), I should now publish a set agenda and read it. I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read it completely, but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. There was no change. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're continuing at the 23rd session. Before we move to the agenda, allow me to speak with a few words about World Health Day 7 April. Dear MPs, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to remind on today 7 April of the World Health Day, which is celebrated every year on today under the auspices of the World Health Organization. The World Health Assembly, organised by the World Health Organization, was held in 1948. On April 7th, it was determined for World Health Day and began to be celebrated since 1950. This day is marked to build awareness of a particular health issue that would draw attention to priority areas that concern the World Health Organization. The activities related to this particular topic as well as the resources necessary for them should not only apply to the day of 7 April but should be taken into account throughout the year. This year's World Health Day is dedicated to the great problem of today's medicine, the resistance of bacteria to antibiotics. The World Health Organization points out that all governments and state institutions, doctors, pharmacists and pharmaceuticals and all citizens, as well as possible, must be involved in the fight against the spread of resistance to antibiotics. In 2008, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Programme for Antibiotic Resistance Control from 2009 to 2014. Since 2008, a public campaign has been conducted to inform citizens about the harmfulness of the excessive use of antibiotics. World Health Day should be dedicated to itself and to its health, and in harmony with the knowledge that health is the greatest wealth, and that each person can do the most for his own health. Prevention, education and acceptance of healthy life habits are a real step on the way to health. The World Health Organization's message on the occasion of World Health Day is: No action today there is no cure for tomorrow. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, today at 3:30 a.m. the Croatian Parliament will be addressed by the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, accompanied by the Commissioner for Enlargement of Mr... and other associates, so please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll finish the morning session at 13.00 p.m., take care of these benches and papers and then at 3:30 p.m., so before we're gathered for at least one 10 minutes at 15.20 so there won't be any unnecessary entrances and exits, we'll be in places to listen to the President of the European Commission. Before that, a delegation of the Croatian Parliament will discuss with Mr Barroso at 3:00 in particular, and then from that meeting directly come here to the assembly. After his exposure to clean up the space, one 10 minutes continue with the session, the afternoon session of the Croatian Parliament. Here. After 10 minutes of leaving Mr. Barroso's Parliament, we'll get together for a little bit, organize, and then we'll continue with the session. Yesterday, Vice President Shakespeare announced a debate on the first item of the agenda that is actually the fifth in this final proposal, which was the proposal for a social care bill. We've been informed that the promoters can't because they're prevented from coming here. I don't know if the boards sent reports. What? ... The parent board hasn't sent it yet, so we'll suspend it and move to the sixth point of this final one that you have in front of you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70692	Good morning, everybody. We're starting today's work. The esteemed representative Lesar raises some hands, something heavy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not difficult, but let me make a request to you as chairman and vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I would kindly ask you to make a request to Minister Đuri Popijač to come to the Croatian Parliament accompanied by the Chief of State Inspectorate and to answer the question of who and why and on whose orders he forbade the competent inspector of the work to exercise the control of working relations with the Labour Act in the Vecernji list. Namely, the Vecernji list's revision has already been on strike for more than 10 days and on the first day the strike committee has sent a request to the competent labour inspector to carry out the control of the contract by the employees... On the first day, they received an answer that the inspector did not have an office day, so for 10 days the competent inspection has not responded to the strike committee's call. [[You don't understand.]] Since it is an extremely important matter and respect for labour rights, and competent institutions authorized to monitor and control obviously do not want to...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70694	Thank you very much. I don't need a full explanation. I understand what this is about. We'll give you directions... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70695	We can't go over the fact that the inspectors...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70696	Your Honor! ... We will refer the proposal to the Prime Minister, or Minister, your request will be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the club esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70697	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I'm asking for a 10-minute break for the SDP club. We'd also like to report on this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70698	Thank you. The HDZ Club, too. Thank you very much. Ten-minute break. We'll continue at 9.45. Thank you. We're going back to work. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic requested a break. Please explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70700	Thank you very much, Vice President. Therefore, the SDP Representatives Club believes that the Croatian Parliament must no longer be silent. Workers' rights are systematically violated in Croatia, and competent institutions are doing nothing. The state's inspectorate isn't working. We're wondering if she's not working out of laziness or incompetence or working on someone's orders. Vecernji list journalists simply changed the collective contract and they entered into a legal strike. The employer entrusted their jobs to part-time associates who had no right to strike. We are interested in whether the employer treats workers in his country or workers in Croatia as beings of the lower order, as if we are in Central Africa, and with our workers they can do whatever they want. It is also a matter of national dignity, but it is also an effective protection of their labour rights. This isn't the only case. UZOR workers from Split have not been paid their contributions for eight years, for the last eight months all without pay. They asked for the protection of the State Inspectorate. They were told they didn't have time to go into inspection. The workers came to the State Inspectorate, fell in there and found those responsible for reading the newspaper and drinking coffee, and they don't have time to do their job when it comes to their elemental rights. Obviously, there has been an insufficiency of the state services, and perhaps the intentional suppression of labour rights, because we are inconceivable that the State Inspectorate behaves in this way in this regard. That's why it would really be necessary today, but here comes the Minister of Economy and the Chief State Inspector, so let's explain what this is all about. But we of our workers in Croatia as the Croatian Parliament, as elected representatives of citizens, must protect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70701	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. There is a very serious problem here, which is that the State Inspectorate, who must protect the interests of workers in its work, protect the respect for the laws that have been passed in the interests of workers, who must control the payments of contributions to pension, health insurance, not to do his job. If so, it is indeed one heavy charge against the State Inspectorate and some other state services. As a club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we absolutely support that all state services must protect employees in all the provisions of the Labour Act and all other laws that speak of workers' rights. So if there's really something wrong with that then we need to correct it and we think we should really question if this is true, is this possible? If possible, then we can also find corrections for workers to get their rights. We join to examine this, to take appropriate measures in competent places, and to provide full protection for workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70703	Thank you. So, at the request of a respected representative of Lesar, SDP and HDZ, I will refer to the government a request to come here to the Minister of Economy Council with those co-workers he believes should have with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70704	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now propose, in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure supplementing the 23rd session agenda with 34 new points. Before we move on to the supplemental, decision to supplement the agenda, allow me to address the occasion of April 8th – World Roma Day. Dear MPs, honourable representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to remind today on 8 April of the World Roma Day, which has been marked since 1971 when it was held in London on that day. The World Congress of Roma, which sets goals and that slogan – "Stop racism, discrimination and exile!" The World Day of Roma worldwide is marked to warn the public that the Roma are the largest national minority in Europe to be cast out of segregation and discrimination. Today, when marking World Roma Day, attention should be paid to the situation of the Roma and conditions of their life in the Republic of Croatia, which have been on the margins of social interest for years, which has contributed to a significant lagging of the quality of their living conditions in relation to the average quality of living conditions of the majority population. The Government of the Republic of Croatia estimated that the existing Roma gap itself cannot overcome, and determined to change the existing situation with a view to achieving the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Croatia's guaranteed rights and the removal of all forms of discrimination was adopted by the National Programme for Roma in 2003. This programme wants to help the Roma in a systematic way to improve living conditions and to engage in social life and decision-making processes in the local and wider community, without losing their own identity, culture and tradition. In parallel with the implementation of the National Programme for Roma, the Republic of Croatia has expressed its readiness to join several other European countries -- Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia, Serbia-Montenegro for a decade to include Roma 2005. – 2015 launched by the World Bank and the Open Society Institute. This also applies the basic objectives of UN Millennium Development and the EU's social inclusion programme for the most vulnerable minority population in Europe - Roma. Finally, we all wish together that this year's marking of World Roma Day also contributes to further sensitising society for the needs of members of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia, as well as achieving the full integration of Roma into Croatian society, but with the preservation of all the specialities of their identity. I warmly congratulate all members of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia on World Roma Day. ... Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said on the basis of Article 204(2), I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 23rd session. [[Applause.]] 1. Final proposal for amending and supplementing law on civil servants, second reading, P.Z. No. 719 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONCERNING THE STATUATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY AGENCY (IRENA), WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.747 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND ENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE COUNTRIES OF THE SPECIFIC STATES, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAWS, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 748 1. Proposal for an amending and supplementing laws on the protection of nature, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 749 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TECHNICAL LAW, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS, THE FIRST AND OTHER READINGS, P.Z.E. No. 750 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE WORK OF SOCIAL WORK, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 752 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON CORRUPTION ORGANISED CRIMINALITY, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 753 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND ENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON TERMS AND BUDGET, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 754 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON EDUCATION-REHABILITY, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 755 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON LOOPED INDICATION, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 756 1. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the financial police, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND COMPLETE OF THE LAW ON THE FINANCIAL INSPECTORATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 758 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Seeds, the present material and the recognition of a variety of agricultural plants, with a final proposal for legislation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 759 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW ON BILITY, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 760 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT OF THE FOOD LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 761 1. Proposal for a Law amending family law, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 762 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE VETERINARY LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 763 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON AUTHORITY IN THE INDUSTRIAL GOVERNMENT OF THE RIGHTS OF THE INDUSTRY GOVERNMENT, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 764 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF TOPOGRAPHY OF POLUDIC PRODUCTS, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 765 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON ADMINISTRATIVE FUNDS IN THE INTELECTUAL GOVERNMENT RIGHTS, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 766 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAWS ON LANDAL ORIGINS AND ORIGINS OF PRODUCTION AND SERVICES, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 767 22. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND APPLICATION OF THE MARK FISHING LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 768 22. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on wine, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 769 22. Proposal for an amending and supplementing laws on industrial design, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 770 22. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE BALANCE LAW, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 771 22. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PATENT LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 772 22. Proposal for a Law amending the State Inspectorate Act, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 773 22. Report on the work of the children's legal counsel for 2010. YEAR Name: Advocate General for Children 22. A report on the workings of the lawyer for gender equality. Transporter: Advocate for Gender Equality 22. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on forest reproductive material, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 774 22. PROGRAMME OF THE SOCIAL-Pedagogical Activity LAW, first reading, P.Z. No.775 22. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF BLUES, THE REASONS AND THE UNPUBLICATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS, THE EMERGENCY, THE FIRST AND OTHER READINGS, P.Z. No. 776. Proposer: Representative Vladimir Seks 22. Report on the work of the Advocate General for persons with disabilities for 2010. A year. Applicant: Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities 22. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radiotelevision. Proposer: Information, Information and Media Committee. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter It determines firstly that the proposal to adopt an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law of Chemicals with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. the number 750 of points 5 shall comply with EU rules and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. 105 we have a quorum we can decide. 105 and 77 reported how? Please engage, you're controlling. Let's not have any doubts as to whether we have or do not have a quorum. Please sign in. Enough to turn any of these red. Let's get 66 MPs and MPs involved, and there's 105 of us. How's that? I don't know why we're wasting our time on stuff like this. And we're all in a hurry. It's Friday. Mr. Bishop and you didn't turn it on. We've got 77 quorums on, 105's on. Please. Then I have to decide that we're going to raise our hands. We're going to vote by raising our hands, because these two things don't add up. We're moving to point one. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the procedure for the adoption of the Law attesting the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy, P.Z. Number 747, point 2? If there is no please, who's to be involved in an emergency procedure to raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on areas of special state concern, P.Z. Number 745, point 3? If there's no one to put on an emergency procedure this point, would you please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? An accepted proposal unanimously with 104 votes. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, P.Z. Number 749, point 4.? There isn't. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. One-on-one, 102 votes. Any of the MPs or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, P.Z. Number 753, point 7.? If not, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 102 votes. 5. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial planning and construction, P.Z. Number 754, point 8. Who's in? There's no one here. Against? Restraint? The accepted proposal unanimously with 102 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Police Act, P.Z. No, 757, point 11? If there isn't, who's asking to raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 102 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 758, item 12? If there isn't, who's asking to raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 102 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Seed Act, fruit material, recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, P.Z. No. 759, paragraph 13? If not, who's in favour of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The accepted proposal unanimously with 102 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, P.Z. No. 760, paragraph 14? If not, who's for this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. 103 votes unanimously. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Food Act, P.Z. No. 761, point 15? There isn't. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity accepted by 103 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Family Law, P.Z. No. 762, item 16? There isn't. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 103 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, P.Z. No. 763, paragraph 17? There isn't. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. An accepted proposal unanimously with 103 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on representation in the area of industrial property law, P.Z. No. 764, item 18? There isn't. Who's in favour of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 103 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, P.Z. No. 765, paragraph 19? If not, who's for this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? 103 votes unanimously. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights, P.Z. No. 766, paragraph 20? There isn't. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The 105 vote has been unanimously accepted. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and the addition of the Code on Geographical Origin Tags and of the designations of origin of products and services, P.Z. No. 767, paragraph 21? If there isn't, who's in favor of an emergency, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 105 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Maritime Fisheries Act, P.Z. No. 768, paragraph 22? There isn't. Who's in favor of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously with 105 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act, P.Z. No. 769, item 23? If not, who's in favour of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously with 105 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Industrial Design Act, P.Z. No. 770, item 24? If there isn't, who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was unanimously accepted with 105 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act, P.Z. No. 771, paragraph 25? There isn't. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimously, 105 votes were accepted. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on patents, P.Z. No. 772, paragraph 26? There isn't. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously with 105 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on State Inspectorate, P.Z. No. 773, point 27? If there isn't, who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. 104 votes unanimously accepted the proposal. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on forest reproductive material, P.Z. No. The 774th point of the 30th supplement? There isn't. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was unanimously accepted by 104 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the completion of the holiday laws, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 776.point 32? There isn't. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the MPs or representatives shall have any objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session. These are points under one, six, nine, ten, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty-one and one, thirty-three and thirty-four suggested additions. I don't think there's any need to read them again. They've already been read. So the dots are marked at which points. If there is no then, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the addition of the agenda have been established. Thank you very much. It was a little tiring, but that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70705	I'm opening a session. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70706	Dear Mr Vice-President, on Friday morning before the move to the agenda on my proposal, which was joined by HDZ and SDP representatives' clubs, the vice-president, then decided that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be asked to address the Parliament by Minister Đuro Popijac and the Chief State Inspector on the issue and situation in "The Evening List". Since no information on this has been given to us so far in written or oral form, I would like to repeat this request, ask if the request has been sent to the Government and what possible response of the Government of Croatia, or when we can expect the Minister in the Assembly to make that request, which was set out on Friday morning, given the outcome of things and events these days in the "Evening List" I believe that the coming of the Minister and the Chief State Inspector is a priority, so I would kindly ask you to repeat or rush the Government to point out this request so that we can discuss it in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70707	Thank you very much. You're right, yes. On Friday, you and some other clubs suggested calling the economy minister and coming before the parliament and explaining those proposals. We have also informed the Vice-President of the Parliament and I have also informed the Minister of Economy and today I have received information that the inspector-in-chief is the Chief Inspector that he has performed surveillance and we will now inform him again that, if he wishes to come before the Parliament and inform what is in this surveillance in the Evening List, the Chief Inspector has done. So, we'll inform him of your request to come before the Parliament and explain it. I'd like a representative of the Temple, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70708	Mr. Vice-President, regarding the information we received this morning for the event in "Evening" or Croatian media, regardless of what this correspondence started, which is what counterpart Lesar asked for the minister to show. Doesn't the Croatian Parliament need to call an urgent thematic session through the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and speak to these situations. So, I'm out of here, so I support this initiative that my colleague Lesar has launched. But in any case, the Parliament must not know, nor do anything, for insubordination is also a great, great sin. Therefore, if this information that we received this morning is correct, I think it is okay for the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership to call an urgent thematic session and also to invite all interested parties, i.e. responsible persons, to this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70709	Thank you very much. I don't mind. The board president, you gave the initiative, let the board president call it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70710	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As announced today, we will vote this morning on the debated agenda points and before that we will complete the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure and that supplement are proposed to supplement the 12th point. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 777. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 778 Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data, with the Final Proposal of the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 779 4.Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public-private Partnership, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 780 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on road traffic and road inspection, with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 781 5. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for an EU integration project in Natura 2000, with the Final Proposal of the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 782 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol to the Treaty on the Amendment and Completion and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 783 5. Proposal for a referendum law, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 784 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international and humanitarian law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 785 5. 2010 Police Attorney's Office Report Year, applicant: Attorney General 5. Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2011. Five years. The Statute of the Croatian Radio Television Applicants: The Programme Council of the HRT and the Supervisory Board of the HRT The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches, Article 205. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress, the draft law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. It shall comply with the provisions of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure in the case of the adoption of this Act. Please engage to check the quorum. 81 I think there's more of us, 103 is numbered. We have a quorum, but when we vote, we're going to have to decide something because this is a big difference between those who have applied and who are numbered. So we have the quorum to decide and we move on to the decision on certain points that are proposed as an addition to the agenda. Does any of the representatives or advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, that is, P.Z. point 1 (a) is replaced by the following: We're going to vote on urgency by raising our hands, so who is it that this bill goes according to an emergency procedure? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 106 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the Republic of France have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on the mutual protection of classified data, i.e. P.Z. No. Point 779 of the proposal? There isn't. Please raise your hands, who's in favor of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? No, it's 107 votes unanimous. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Public Private Partnership of P.Z. No. 780 points 4? There isn't. Please vote who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously with 108 votes. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on road traffic and road inspection, P.Z. 781? If you don't please raise your hands, who's in favor of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was unanimously accepted by 108 votes. Any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Reintegration Project in the EU Natura 2000 project. P.Z. No. 782nd point 6? If not, who's for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint. It was unanimously accepted by 108 votes. Any of the representatives or advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol on the Agreements on the Amendment and Completion and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, P.Z. Number 783, point 7.? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously with 109 votes. Any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the approval of the Additional Protocol on the Treaty on the Amendment and Completion and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, P.Z. Number 783, under point 8.? If there's no one in favor? Thank you, Oppose? Restraint? This emergency proposal was adopted unanimously by 109 votes. If any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the referendum law, that is, P.Z. Number 784, point 9 of the proposal? If there's no one for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 109 votes. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 23rd session agenda? These are points below 10, 11 and 12 submitted supplements, i.e. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2010, Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activity in the Republic of Croatia and the Statute of HRTV? If there are no objections from Mrs and gentlemen, the representatives of the addition of the agenda have been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I will propose to supplement the 23rd session agenda with a 31st new point, not 32, because point 2 of the applicant has, in the meantime, withdrawn from the procedure. And here we go, first it's 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SUPPORT OF TERMINAL AUTHORITY AND BUDGET, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS, IMPLEMENTAL PROCEDURE, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 786 PROPOSERS: AGENT DINKO BURIĆ 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING the Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the objective of strengthening the security of energy supply, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 787 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION INSPECTION LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 788 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 789 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE SAFETY LAW IN THE TRAFFIC TRANSPORT, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 790 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF PERSON, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 791 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PARICAL PROCEDURE LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READINGS, P.E. No. 792 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judgment Council, with a final proposal for legislation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 793 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE "CULTURE NEW", FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 794 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Children's Supplement Law, with a Final Proposal for Laws, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 795 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets of Railway Services, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 796 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE CONVENTION ON THE CONVENTION OF NON-NATION CASES, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 797 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SERVANTS AND POSTS IN THE LOCAL AND COUNTRY (REGIONAL) OF THE Self-GOVERNMENT, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 798 1. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the right to access information, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 799 1. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on court fees, first reading, p.z. No. 800 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, with a final proposal for legislation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 801 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PROGRAMME OF GODETIC INDICATION, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 802 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PEACE SURVEILLANCE LAW, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 803 1. Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the cost of funds in 2010. YEAR 1. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2010 Godinu Carrier: Croatian Academy of Science and Arts 1. Annual report of the 2010 conflict decision on the conflict of interest of the Croatian Parliament YEAR Carrier: Commission to decide on a conflict of interest 1. Final proposal for Council Registrar Law, Council Coordination and National Minority Representative, second reading of P.Z. No. 627 1. Final proposal for social care laws, second reading, P.Z. No. 746 1. PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, WITH THE PROPOSAL OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 1. Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, implementation of the HRP and the overall situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Year, with report on the status of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2010. 26 years old. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE POST SERVICES LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 804 27. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND ENDMENTS OF THE SESTINITY LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.E. No. 805 27. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fair Land, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 806 27. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 807 27. Proposal for a Law on the Non-Depreciation of Penalties of War Profiters and Penalties of the Transfiguration and Privatization Procedures, with Final Proposal of Laws, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 808 27. PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 809 The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the bill is under point 7. The draft law under point 8, the draft law of point 10 and the draft law of point 14, and the draft law of point 16 and point 28 are in line with EU rules and we do not vote in accordance with Article 160 of the first Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. Let's see the score. 95, 103 otherwise listed. We've got a good one-and-a-half quorum. Any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law supplementing the Law on spatial planning and construction, P.Z. No. 786? Proposer for Representative Dinko Buric. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70712	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Club opposes an emergency procedure. So we're asking her to go into regular procedure because it's a problem for decades to come, and she needs to be well discussed before making a final decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70713	Thank you. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Or by raising your hands. I ask who is to pass this law by emergency procedure on behalf of the HDZ Club Mr Hebrang opposes the urgency of the procedure. Please, who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I don't think we need to move on. If any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of adoption, this shall go into regular procedure. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in order to strengthen energy security, P.Z. No. 787, point 2? If there's no one who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity with 103 votes accepted emergency procedure. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Educational Inspection, P.Z. No. 788, point 3? Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70714	Dear Mr. President, the SDP Club suggests that we discuss this law in two readings, however, contrary to the proposal, to discuss it in an urgent procedure for both a conceptual and a meaningful nature. The formal government in the proposal says it is a matter of particularly justified state reasons for harmonising with EU rules but the law has no indication that it is a European law and we think it is a fairly free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, so-called The public debate on the law was held at the end of December and early January, and nearly 5 months passed and the law was in the ministry drawers. And that it was really an emergency we could discuss in two readings by now. As regards the reason for the content of this law is a whole new law, so it is not as new as we have had with some minor changes, it regulates a completely different system of inspection supervision in all school institutions, so from kindergarten to adult education institutions, new powers are given to inspectors. And we really feel it necessary for this law to be discussed in two readings. That would make the law maybe even better, and this is how we're afraid that because of the wrong reasoning we're going to speed up and actually make bad decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70715	Thank you. We heard the remarks of Ms. Marija Lugaric. I am voting on a proposal for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Please, who's in for an emergency procedure, raise your hand? Please count. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result? An emergency procedure with 75 votes was accepted for, 28 against. Any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act, P.Z. No. 789, point 4.? If you don't, I'm putting this motion on an emergency vote. Who's in need, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This emergency proposal was adopted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Railway Safety Act, P.Z. No. 790, point 5? Unless I'm making a motion of urgency to vote. Who's in need, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Emergency accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of a law amending the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, P.Z. No. 791 point 6? If there's no one in need, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Emergency accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of Railway Markets, P.Z. No. 796, point 16.? If we don't vote hand-lifting, who's in charge of the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Emergency accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the reduction of cases without citizenship, P.Z. No. 797, point 12? If there's no one else who needs an emergency, can you raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Emergency accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Resentees in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, P.Z. No. 798, point 13 of the proposal. If not, who's in favour of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was also unanimously accepted, 104 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, P.Z. No. 802, point 17. If he doesn't, I'll put him to the vote. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was unanimously accepted by 104 votes. Any of the MPs or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 803, point 18. If not, who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. And this proposal was accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Postage Services, P.Z. No. 804, item 27? There isn't. I'm asking who's for this proposal to raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? And this emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 104 votes. Any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, P.Z. No. 806, point 29. If not, who's for this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. And this proposal was accepted unanimously, with 104 votes to go into emergency procedure. Any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, P.Z. No. 807, point 30. If not, please raise your hands who's in favour of this emergency proposal? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Congested? And this emergency proposal was accepted unanimously, with 104 votes. Any of the MPs or advocates have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Non-depreciation of War Profits and Crimes of the Conversion and P.Z. No. 808, point 31. If not, who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And this emergency proposal was accepted unanimously, with 104 votes. Any of the MPs or representatives have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Penal Code, P.Z. No. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. If not, who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Against? Restraint? And this emergency proposal was accepted unanimously, with 104 votes. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 23rd session agenda? These are points 9, 15, 19–21. and from 23-26. If not, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. I don't think we should read all that because we heard it all. Thank you very much. We're going over, ladies and gentlemen, to the addendum of the agenda, so please let's get involved and see how we stand with the quorum. And control when you're involved whether you're really involved or you think you're involved. Come on. Please, obviously there's more than 77 of us, so please get involved. And then we have a quorum. So we're going to vote on expanding the agenda. I will propose on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure supplementing the agenda of the 23rd session with six new points: 1. The final draft law on the prohibition and prevention of unregistered activity, this is the second reading, P.Z. No. 731, 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 810, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 811, 4. Report on the work done, spent on the production of technical documentation for the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia for 2011, applicant State Geodetic Administration, 5. Proposal for a conclusion related to preventing interference of television and radio publishers along the Adriatic, Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, 6. Proposal for a law governing the right and obligations of the shipyard in the restructuring process, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 814. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. We've got a quorum. Please let's go. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, P.Z. No. 810, point 2. If not, please make a statement, let's get involved and vote on the motion to go through this law in an emergency procedure. Score. This emergency proposal was accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, nothing abstentioned and 1 against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Law of Law and Obligations of the Shipyard in the restructuring process, P.Z. No. 814, point 6. If there isn't, please let's get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. Score. This emergency proposal was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. If any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the establishment of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session, these are points 1st, 4th and 5th additions, so as not to read them, we all heard them before. If not, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, please pause for 10 minutes for the following reasons: yesterday it was announced, and I see that nothing is said today, the positive and encouraging news published by the European Commission about the closure of Chapter 23. However, recently, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia sent its report to the Croatian Parliament, which found an increased degree of legal uncertainty of the objective legal order and legal uncertainty in the exercise of the rights and obligations of the citizens of the Republic, and I quote all: "the legal inconsistencies of the legislative order of the Republic of Croatia seriously violated the principle of rule of law, the highest value of the Constitutional Order of the Republic." In a situation where we are in front of the closure and this most demanding 23. Chapters of the Croatian Parliament must be made clear on the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70718	All right, break 10 minutes. Continuing at 10.48. We continue the session, the HDSSB Club Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70720	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 104. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court is responsible, among other things, to monitor the achievement of constitutionality and legality and to report to the Croatian Assembly on the observed occurrences of unconstitution and illegality. At its meeting held on 23 March this year, the Constitutional Court established a report on the constitutionally unacceptable effects of the consolidated texts of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Laws, the Laws and other regulations and general acts. This report has been published in the National Journal since 30 March of this year. In that report, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia reports the Croatian Assembly on quotes "the appearance of unconstitution in the way of making the consolidated text of the law and also the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia". At a session on June 16th last year, the Croatian Parliament accepted and declared a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, whose President, Vladimir Seks, established the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting on 6 July 2010. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia states in this report that this consolidated text of the Constitution has not been drawn up in accordance with the rules for the production of consolidated texts of normative acts established by the Constitutional Court in 2005. At a recent session of the Croatian Parliament, we warned of the problems that have arisen in respect of non-compliance with the rules that bodies are responsible for the production of consolidated texts should not deviate from the numbered marks of articles contained in the original text of the normative act. As an example, we cited Article 9 of the Constitution, which follows Article 53a. Instead, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, more precisely its President, Mr Shex, in the consolidated text, marked it as Article 54. The same example also states the Constitutional Court in its report of March 23rd, however, the Constitutional Court finds that I quote it "a word of unauthorized intrusion into the Constitutional text". However, the above example of Article 53, unfortunately, is not in the consolidated text of the Constitution the only case. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr Shex, did not respect the Croatian Parliament's decision to amend the Constitution from 16 June 2010, when it came to all the articles set out by the Croatian Parliament in its special chapter 7a. concerning the European Union. In fact, in Article 29 of the Constitution 2010 the Croatian Parliament set out the following quotes "Article 141 is added to Chapter 7a. The European Union, Articles 141a, b, c and d and titles above them." Instead of the mandatory numbering of these articles, Mr. Shakespeare numbered the same as the new articles 143, 4, 5 and 6. On this basis, the Constitutional Court has found that "the fundamental structure of the constitutional text, or that the integrity of the constitutional text has been seriously violated, has been severely violated". The result of these errors is an unauthorized increase in the number of articles of the Constitution from 139th to 150th, with two more of the final provisions, i.e. 152 articles. Due to the fundamental importance for the constitutional order of Croatia, the Constitution has reached the following mandatory conclusions. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system must publish without delay the new consolidated text of the Constitution in a special number of National Journals. Due to Croatia's membership in international organisations, it is necessary that this same Committee publishes and official translations of the new purified Constitution in the English and French official languages of the Council of Europe. Finally, this Committee must make a decision to delete all the consolidated texts published so far and to publish the same in the National Journal. Yesterday we heard encouraging news regarding the closure of the most demanding chapter in the accession process, Chapter 23. For months we have been in hastily harmonising our legislation with the legislation of the European Union, and now we are in a position to quote the "increased degree of legal uncertainty, objective legal order and legal uncertainty in the exercise of the rights and obligations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, by increasing the internal legal inconsistency, the legislative order of the Republic of Croatia, is seriously violated by the principle of rule of law, the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. But not to believe that the Croatian Parliament has not even longed for these findings of the Constitutional Court and for this state of affairs in the state, and it has been almost 2 months since the Constitutional Court decided. I would like to remind you that 2660 different decisions, solutions, orders, regulations, conclusions have been published since the adoption of the June Constitution since 2010. These include 116 laws, which during this 11-month period this Croatian Assembly passed, and of those 116 laws, because of the error of Mr. Seks 103 laws, are called for by the guilty even the non-existent articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As an example, all I'm going to say is the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70721	Thank you very much. You're not going to set anything up as an example anymore. You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70722	It states that it is based on Article 151 which does not exist at all in the Croatian Constitution. Yes, I am done, because of everything you have done, Mr. Seks, I call you to give your resignations on all the duties in the Croatian Parliament, to apologize to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the entire Croatian public and to compensate for the material damage that you call the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has caused and to the citizens who bought it for 69 kuna, and you have printed it in 1,000 copies, you have done it. I am not sure that we can expect something moral from a man who is known to locate, identify, arrest, but I urge you to withdraw from the Croatian political scene as soon as possible because it is increasingly obvious that you are losing the compass and that you are doing more damage to yourself and to the entire Croatian public, not only the Homeland War, but to the Croatian Parliament and the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70723	So this is a wonderful one of the abuses of the Rules of Procedure, and I'll tell you the following, the ignorance you've shown right now is just astounding and the deception you've shown here is startling. It was not Vladimir Seks, as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system who self-authorised the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but the unanimous multi-party Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system established this year at its session on 6 July, that the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was established. So it's a collective decision of the Constitution Committee. This decision by the Committee on the Constitution, which was published in "The People's Newspaper" with the consolidated text, is also the first comment made by Professor Smerdel, and so is this second comment that I have made, I am only the processor of this consolidated text of the Constitution. Therefore, when you go to impute me personally, then at least you should know the basic facts relating to the issue and the determination of the consolidated text of the Constitution. Secondly, in all the amendments to the Constitution so far since 2007, in 2001, when the consolidated texts of the Constitution were published they were always published in the same way that it was done on 6 July of last year. There is one separation between the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Committee. According to nomotechnical rules according to nomotechnical theories, nomotechnics can be a disabled one and another approach. The Constitutional Court, not on any binding decision, but in its report, took the view that, when making and adopting consolidated texts, the Constitution should also leave the numberings that were valid at the time of the amendment of the Constitution. And according to that, tomorrow's session of the Constitutional Committee is precisely the topic of the agenda. It is one session of the Committee on the Constitution, where the Committee on the Constitution will discuss this position and the opinion of the Constitutional Court, according to the Constitutional Court, that people understand what it is. The Constitutional Court took the view in that report that when a new article is introduced, the Constitution should then be numbered to indicate, as is the case with regard to Europe, those articles should be in the consolidated text of the Constitution 135a, 135.b, 135.c, 135.d., and the Constitution Committee simply put the articles of the Constitution in order to be one whole per regular number. He did not put these articles under a, b, c and d, no constitutional content was changed by any constitutional provisions, but by e-numeration. And in European practice in many countries that have made an amendment to the Constitution, in particular those amendments to the Constitution that have been made in view of the accession of these EU countries have been a different practice. Somewhere, old numbers were left, somewhere they put themselves as it was done, as the Constitution Committee did. Thus, there is a difference in practice in theory, and there is a difference in practice in the life practice of many EU member states in identifying and issuing consolidated texts of the Constitution. We'll finally discuss it tomorrow. We will discuss this tomorrow on the Committee on the Constitution, and one thing is certain that Mr. Buric of your accusations that you personally accuse me of being self-authorised, it has made such a position a unanimous Committee on the Constitution is taken, in which external co-workers who are professors of the Department of Constitutional Law in which there are also a number of prominent lawyers members of the Committee on the Constitution have accepted this interpretation and this position. So it's extremely inappropriate for me to call with these political virtues... that I resign, compensate for damages and so forth. Ignorance of inexcusableness, but therefore a dose of something that falls into the extreme, untasteful, even less justifying. It is amazing that the end of very different positions and legal theories and practices and collective bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, that you are going to impute me to a walking shop. It's really beyond all limits. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70724	Okay. It's obvious that I've opened up a good topic as soon as you've apologized like this. You have injured the Rules of Procedure in all its provisions, but I will tell you Mr. Vice President, I have just passed on the findings, I do not have to be a lawyer, the findings of the Constitutional Court, here is the National Journal No. 37/11, and in this worthless book it does not say that it was organised, this consolidated text by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but by Vladimir Seks. And in the entire opening text, you're talking in the first person of the one, not the first person of the plural. That's one thing. It's easy, Mr. Shakespeare, when it comes to crediting yourself, and when it comes to responsibility, it's collective. That's what you did in that syntagma of yours to locate, identify, arrest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70725	Thank you very much. Enough of your slander. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70726	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70727	Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70728	Don't turn me off... /The speaker off....so Mr. Shakespeare. I'm sorry you didn't use that manual.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70729	Please finish. You have no right anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70730	Because you don't seem to be ambulatory enough anymore, you're going to need stationary treatment, because every addiction takes its toll, and so does the one who suffers you sooner or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70731	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Representative Gjurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. .../Conversation off./... simply, this is the suffering of poverty of shame, morality and everything else, and I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to protect us in some way from this violence of an agent who uses all the means possible to bring terror here, and that verbal terror, and everyone should imagine from us MPs to what extent we should allow this, and please at least for a warning if they can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70733	Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The representative infringed Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. I hope that I share the thoughts of my colleagues who are here in the Assembly to try to protect us if we have a way of this constant terror. And I will also warn if someone has not heard that it is amazing that someone calls the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia a worthless or worthless book. Mr. Vice President, I hope that we in this House have the morals and strength to resist this kind of violence and psychological harassment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70735	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to give Agent Buric a warning, and I'm going to give him my word now. Here you are, Agent Buric, I gave you my word. ... You do not determine who will give before...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70736	All right, it's all right, you're right. So, the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209, the distinguished colleague of terror stories and I did not even mention terror, and this is a copy of the "National Journals" 37/2011 which, by their decision, declared this a worthless text that brought scandal and which is a disgrace to the situation in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is today, and this is thanks to Mr. President of the Committee, Mr. Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70737	Now I give you a reminder by taking away your word. And what you're going to... That I need it, except for the infirmary that the stationary treatment should have been included in one other sphere. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] The next step will be to step away from the Assembly session during this session. Only the first next step. Comrade Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70738	Good thing Goli Island's closed. I refer to Article 211 where you have broken the whole article because in your explanation as chairman of these sessions you have not given any explanation, but you have practically responded and replicated to the representative. On the other hand, I call for Article 209 where, as a parliamentary representative, I am not satisfied with this day's explanation, I ask that the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system be delivered within 24 hours and we are looking for a debate on this issue because it is obvious that Croatia is currently a country without a valid constitution and that there is simply no terror in the work, but it is not the separation of legislative, executive and judicial authorities. If we question the Constitutional Court's decision, then it is a clear message for both chapter 23 and entry into the European Union, but God sends me a clear message to organised crime. This is a land without law, or a land of lawlessness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70739	Thank you. ... Nothing more. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Agent Buric, there's no more words. ... No more, no more, you're not gonna do this here any more, so I don't say some kind of stunt and you won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I will not allow you to turn into a Croatian assembly... [[Intruder Buric: I have done a violation of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70740	You have to give me the right to say what he's done to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70741	Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70742	It's terror, it's real...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70743	Mr. President, but you have to do this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70744	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70745	You have to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70746	I've already given you a warning by taking a word, now I'm telling you a measure. I'm interrupting the session. I'm giving you a measure of distance from this session. [[Upadica Grubišić: Terror, conducts terror.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70747	High levels of anxiety, I told you what you needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70749	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDSSB club for five minutes. Unlike you, he can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70750	For these reasons, you can't take a break. We're moving on with the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70751	Okay, then I'm picking up a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70752	Then, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask that we move to the vote first to supplement the agenda. Do we have a quorum? Please, I'm still counting. Thank you. There are 81 MPs and MPs present in the assembly. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 23rd session with the point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 820. This Regulation shall enter It determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the urgent procedure in the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the financing of political activity and election promotion with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 820? There isn't. I suggest we go to the vote. Since there's only one law I suggest we vote for by hand. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Abstained? Against? I find that unanimously with 81 votes to be included by emergency procedure this legislative proposal is on the agenda. Thank you very much. We're moving on with our work. Let me read an ad while there's a lot of you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I call on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament 127. The Committee for the Law of the Croatian Parliament for Friday 20 May 2011 at 8.30 in the hall Janko Drašković 202. And the Constitutional and Business Committee tomorrow morning at 9:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70753	What? First, I ask that we determine the quorum. Let's get on with it. According to the electronic vote, it's 78. Ninety-two, we've got a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 23rd session from the 17th new points. 1. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on water, first reading, P.Z. No. 812. Proposer: Representative Daniel Srb. 2. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON EDUCATION AND EDUCATION IN THE BASAL AND SCHOOL SCHOOL, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 813. Proposer: HDSSB representative club. 3. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIAN AND EUROPEAN COMMISSION REFERRED TO IN THE ‘IPA PROGRAMME OF CROSS-CROATIAN COOPERATION-CROATIA’ IN THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAWS, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 815. 4. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIA AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION REFERRED TO IN THE ‘IPA A PROGRAMME OF THE JADRANK PRE-BORDER COOPERATION’ IN THE framework OF THE PRE-STRUMENTAL AID, THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816. 5. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIAN AND EUROPEAN COMMISSION REFERRED TO IN THE ‘IPA PROGRAMME OF CROSS-CROATIAN COOPERATION - CROATIA’ IN THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTIONAL AID, WITH THE FINAL PROGRAMME OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 817. Six. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING DECISION No. 1/2010. Council for Stabilisation and Association between the EU and Croatia on the participation of Croatia as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.p.r.s. 818. Seven. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW TO APPROVAL OF THE GOVERNMENTAL POLICIES OF THE EMERGENCY RECURRENCE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL READING AND RURAL BANK, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 819. 8. Report on the work of the Croatian Privatization Fund for a period of 1 January SECURE TO 31. PROSIN 2010 A year. Carrier: Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Nine. A PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION ON THE POSITION OF THE CROATIAN NATIONAL MANAGEMENT IN THE NEIGHBOR AND OTHER EUROPEAN STATES WITH A SPECIAL VIEW TO THE CROATIAN NATIONAL MANAGEMENT IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND BLACK GORE. Proposer: Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Ten. PROPOSAL OF THE SUGAR DESCRIPTION, PROGRAMME: Committee on Health and Social Care 11.a) PROPOSING A DECISION TO RETECTION OF MEMBER STATES IN SCIENTIFICS AND SPECIFIC EDUCATION (b) PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION OF THE IMPLEMENT OF THE ETHICS COMMITTEE IN SCIENTIFICS AND SPECIFIC EDUCATION 12. Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the STATISTICS OF the Republic of Croatia 2010. You know, 13 years of age. Annual financial statements from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development 2010 YEAR, Proposer: HBOR. 14. Proposal for the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 A year. 15. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's Peace Operation on Kosovo (KFOR) 16. Proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the duties of the commanders, staff and other NATO bodies in peacekeeping missions and operations under NATO leadership. 17. PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Operation of NATO ‘UNIFIED PROTECTOR’. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please re-engage to check the quorum, to determine if we have a quorum that we can rightly decide. The electronics show. The result? 87, hand-counting 102, in any variant, we have a basis. Any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the Pre-Accession Assistance Instrument of the Act on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of cross-border cooperation Hungary-Croatia" with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 815. There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 85 votes for, unanimously this law goes according to emergency procedure. Secondly, is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the Pre-accession Assistance Instrument of the Proposal Act of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation" within the framework of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816. There isn't. Please engage, vote. The result? 89 for, 2 abstentions, going by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of cross-border cooperation Slovenia – Croatia" within the framework of the Instrument of Pre-accession Assistance, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 817. There isn't. Please engage, vote. The result? With 83 votes in favour, and four abstentions and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2010. The Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 818. There isn't. Please engage, vote. The result? Unanimity with 85 votes in favour, and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection in the adoption of an emergency procedure, to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed law on the confirmation of the Treaty on the loan for the development policy of economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.p. 819. There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour, and one abstention, and this law goes into procedure by emergency procedure. If any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session, these are points 1, 2, and from 8 to 17, they are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 812 Proposer: Daniel Srb. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, first reading, P.Z. No. 813. Proposer: HDSSB representative club. Third, Report on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010 Carrier: Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Fourthly, the proposal for a conclusion on the position of the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European countries with special reference to the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro. Proposer: Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. 10th, Proposal for a Resolution on Diabetes. Proposer: Committee on Health and Social Care. Eleventh, (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010. Annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2010. Proposer: HBOR. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo (KFOR). Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the responsibilities of the Commands, Staffs and other bodies in NATO-led peacekeeping missions and operations. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's "Unified Protector" peacekeeping operation. No objections. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Now we're going to vote on the debated agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70754	We held a special session of the Bureau of Parliament in which we had problems with the conduct of the MPs and in particular concluded that there would be no personal insults. So when I say you're lying, etc. You can say it differently already. Is it? So even Mr Buric, who was present at the meeting, agreed with our position, so I ask that we act accordingly for the next few months in this assembly. And once again, I would recommend that we amend the Rules of Procedure to prepare some things and that the session that is now coming after the elections be better started. Here's a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Counselor Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the work of the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament and, as announced, would be the item of the agenda Final draft law on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. Eighty-six. Before we move to the first item of the agenda, Mr. Representative Lesar came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70756	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a suggestion. Given that I am aware that today at 10:00 a.m., the Minister of the Interior Mr Karamarko comes to the meeting of a committee, I propose that Minister Karamark be invited to the Assembly in front of parliamentary representatives to answer a single question in the Assembly why he does not resolve the duties of the Director of the Police of Mr Grbić, who, according to his own recognition and public testimony, commits a criminal offence. In fact, Mr. Grbic told reporters that the then Deputy Prime Minister tried to influence him to slow down the investigation into the Spice affair. It was a crime by Mr. Polancec. At the same time, the Deputy Prime Minister had to either arrest or report what he did not do, and not to report a criminal offence is also a criminal offence. Since Minister Karamarko has publicly said that he is behind a police director who has publicly stated that he has committed a crime, I think it is because we are in an election year that suggests that a repressive apparatus such as the police are actively involved in the country's pre-election campaign and political life, and that is what the minister must talk about in the Croatian Parliament. Since he's at 10.00 in the building, please invite him to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70757	Thank you. You can, of course, ask to come to the Parliament of any minister, etc. However, it's not good to pretend to be a prosecutor and a judge, so to say that someone committed a crime, we don't know or are competent or competent to determine it here. So I took note of your proposal. Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70758	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to take a break for the club for consultation on the agenda for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70759	Because of the consultation on the agenda? The agenda is fixed, but I don't know what. Okay. You can ask that for at least 10 minutes. Ma'am, so it can't be less than 10 minutes. Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70760	... I'm also asking for a 10-minute break from the club. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70761	And you're looking for a break. Mr. Representative Grubisic, please. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70762	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, we're looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70763	And for the same reason, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70764	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70765	Mr. Representative Damir Cain in front of the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70766	This is the 23rd month the prime minister said we'll come to an agreement on who can and who can be processed. If indeed that information is correct then the abuse of the institution of the state is a couple of excellences. If someone abuses the media, it's a clear scandal. If someone abuses the police, it's an abuse of pain. If someone abuses the judiciary like in this case it's a path to hell from which there's no going back. I'm asking so much to be allowed...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70767	Is that what you're suggesting? It's not an open debate that you're proposing. Take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70768	... to invite you to this assembly not only Mr Karamarko but also Mrs. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70769	Thank you. Are there any other demands? There is. Mr. Andrija Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70770	On behalf of the HDZ, please pause for 10 minutes for consultations on the new situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70771	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and we're going on at 9 and 50. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs continue. She finished her break and before we continue the session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security will be held instead of 10 o'clock at 10:30. And we kindly ask that all who wish to attend the Holy Mass at the Hippodrum on June 5th, 2011 fill out the credentials for accreditations on the table in front of the assembly. There he is. Let's get this straight. The first came from Mr. Representative Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70773	The esteemed president, respected MPs and MPs, SDP clubs, HNS-HSU and IDS handed over a proposal for a decision to set up an investigation committee to determine the role of Police Director Oliver Grbić to submit anonymous applications against members of opposition parties, in particular in connection with the acquisition of arms by the Rijeka Municipality's Cross Staff in 1991. We ask you to give this proposal the importance of putting it on the Parliament's agenda as soon as possible, because it is undoubtedly a matter of public interest. This session has already come out of that framework that was announced in its call and we think it would not be possible, that it would be harmful to wait for the next session of the Parliament. This is more because we are convinced that the determination of the truth through the work of the Assembly Research Commission is in the interest of all parties and also of the HDZ if you will. That's what we've been calling for several times in the last week. Since the ruling party's reactions and the strongest ruling coalition parties were not themselves, we submitted the proposal. So once again, please take it seriously into consideration, put it on the agenda as soon as possible. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission, i.e. the Parliamentary Investigation Commissions, is a constitutional category under Article 92. The constitution, if the numbering is good. Therefore, Article 92 of the Treaty on the The Constitution is a constitutional category. They are set up for all those important issues and precisely defined issues of public interest, and this is such a question, in which no investigation is being conducted, whether police, whether a state's attorney, or a subject which is a subject of evidence, or in a court of law. Since there is no procedure in the present case that we call on in this proposal for an investigative committee, the legal conditions for calling and organising the Commission's work have been met, which within a relatively short period of time within the framework prescribed by the law can publicly determine the truth. Why the Commission of Investigation? And why not just call the National Security Council? As you know, the National Security Council in this case is a single coordinating body based on the Law on the Security and Intelligence Community, or the services of the Republic of Croatia. It is the body in which the government, executive power, the President of the Parliament and the President of the Republic take part. It does not work publicly and it cannot, because of the nature of its position, because of its composition and because of the shortness of work, determine the facts. At the end of the line, Council conclusions are reached by consensus. The investigation committees are not a constitutional category by chance and are not established every day. And as you know in the work of this Parliament, that is, in the work of your parliamentary majority, colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ, in the last 8 years, only several times have been convened by the investigative committees. Since the last days have been several contradictory statements on extremely sensitive issues in the field of Croatian national security, the work of a repressive apparatus, and since none of the actors, of the protagonists in these talks are allowed and we cannot believe and the Priors believe that in the Croatian public interest, the interest of all parties and the interest of Croatia in the negotiating process which is not yet finished, to establish the truth. It can only be public, not in closed meetings. Convinced that you care very much about Croatian interest, we believe that you will follow our request, or request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70774	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70775	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU Club together with the SDP and IDS club submitted a proposal for a decision to set up an investigation committee on the fact-finding role of Police Director Oliver Grbić on the submission of anonymous applications against members of opposition parties, in particular regarding the acquisition of arms by the Cross Staff of the Rijeka Municipality of 1991. A year. The president of the club and the SDP party made an argument, let me present several arguments on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club for the establishment of this Research Commission, and concerning the issue of public interest. So, in our opinion, in this case, I would say vital public interest. Of course, the Director of the Police may invite citizens if they know or are aware of the committing of a criminal offence to report it. However, this is about a situation in which the former Deputy Prime Minister, under his name and last name, has publicly said that the chief of police has called on representatives or members of the HDZ party to file anonymous charges against a very specific group of people, which are opposition politicians, leaders and members of opposition parties and specifically against Mr. Slavko Linic and Mr. Radiir Cacic. It's an accusation that even if it came anonymously, so it was filed by anyone you don't know who it is, it should be investigated. Since it's working, because when you don't know who it is, so it's anonymous, it can be anyone, it can be the biggest criminal in the history of that anonymous application. If it is displayed under a full name and last name it gets even more weight. On the basis of that statement, it was suspected that the repressive apparatus, which is the police, is therefore a key part of the repressive apparatus of this country, was used for political persecution or for the purpose of political disqualification of competition of political. It's a suspicion that it can't work out unless it's cleared up, which is the basis of all dictatorships is using a repressive apparatus for political reckonings. A proposal from this investigating committee or a purpose to determine whether it is true or not. If that's not true, the Commission will determine that. If that is true, it is something that the institutions of this state, outside this House, so, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, must act. This is too serious an accusation in any situation, let alone in democracy, too serious a suspicion that the institutions of this country could continue to function. We are on the verge of entering the European Union, we cannot allow ourselves as a society and as a state to live on suspicion that the repressive apparatus of this country is being used for political purposes. Therefore, I think it is in the interest of the Croatian state, certainly this Parliament which must protect this interest, to establish an investigative commission that it has to be tasked with establishing whether or not it is true that the repressive apparatus is used for political accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70776	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70777	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSB club will be for the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the facts that are being discussed here today, and that is to say the talks, then Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Police Director Oliver Grbic. Although we are aware that the Parliamentary Commissions have not dealt with anything in particular and that there has been no consequences after the fact of any commission. We only remember the debacle or the collapse of the Parliament's Commission's report on the privatisation of INA, on trucks, and then where the stock reserves went, etc. But regardless, it's clear that this case requires how many facts to be determined. IZ media itself because so far we do not have any other relevant facts and data, it turns out that the Croatian government has been working on the principle of some kind of laundry. We know good for washing, it's about FIMI media and all the others, so money laundering through state-owned companies, then mentions Mr Oliver Grbić ironing the affair, but Mr Polancec mentions so-called. packaging, although Croatian term is packaging, would be a little better. So, one pack, what we did, not us, but the ruling one, we're going to iron it out, and that's supposed to be a month, and I've talked about money laundering from these constituencies and from this pay phone, and that's what trials are going to be about, investigative processes, etc. I'm clearly talking about Fimi Media first. Now, as an ordinary citizen, we're wondering why the director of the police didn't report to the Deputy Prime Minister for a statement that he was going to iron out his "Spice" affair. Or he acts on what he would say to his colleague Milanovic, the Latin quad hypocrites, non-defying bows, which is allowed to God is not ox, so he acted and did not report. But I wonder why the Deputy Prime Minister didn't report Mr. Grbić when he suggested packing or packing, however you wish. So, on both sides there are foundations, the basis of which is to examine what was actually said and what was happening. Two months ago, a law on police depolitisation was passed in this House, all of you voted in addition to the HDSSB. The depoliticization of the police, and this is the situation with this police director depoliticized, and he looks towards Europe, and I don't know what. How are we going to get in and Chapter 23 is hanging over our heads, regarding June 21st, June 22nd, June 23rd, July 1st, etc. And now we have this. Where did we get that? Washing, ironing or this ironing attempt, ironing, statements are that it is ironing, ironing. Packing and that's our judiciary that's our repressive apparatus. Here's the HDSSB Club. It'll be for the establishment of the Committee to shed some light on something, even though we're convinced it'll be a wolf bite, but it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70778	Thank you. We have some corrections. First Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70779	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed representative said it was a package. This is about the mounted political process as Stalin, Rankovic did, and all this is possible because we are a state without the Constitution and this is the first and basic issue of this country. And that's why the prime minister can also make a statement, so let's go figure out who can be processed and who can't be processed. It's a matter of policy responsibility, as Cain's couple excellence said or as Izet would say in crazy, confused, normal. Only nobody in this country is crazy or confused, and there's more and more normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70780	It's not a correction, but let's move on. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, correction. It's not a correction, but let's move on. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70782	Ma counterpart Grubisic did not exactly quote the statement by the director of the police, Mr Grbic, he did not just say about the ironing, but publicly stated that the then Deputy Prime Minister asked him as head of police to slow down the criminal investigation in the Spice affair in Podravka. Slowing the investigation or demanding a slowdown of the investigation is either an influence or an attempt to influence investigative actions by the police, which is a criminal offence. I believe that his statement is correct, but if it is correct and he did not report it means that he committed a crime as well as the one who asked him to slow down the investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70783	It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70784	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, there is something far worse than that statement by Damir Polancec ex Vice-President of the government, which is what Mrs. Jadranka Kosor said on the 23rd of this month. I literally want to quote, "I insist that the council session be held as soon as possible," okay. I support "to establish facts and see who can and who can be processed, and to end up agreeing about it by safeguarding institutions, the system, the judiciary, especially courts, etc. said Kosor after the signing of the contract in Croatia to the bishop's conference." The work of gentlemen is the abuse of the institution once again I will say a few excellent institutions that act as an extended hand of the HDZ. And as I said before, if the abuse of media, state media, television, etc. is involved. It's a clear scandal. If it is the abuse of police, then it is the abuse of pain, and if the abuse of justice is at work, then there is indeed no way back from that hell, and therefore should be spoken against, it is to be fought against, because for many innocent people in this country afterwards there will be no return. To that extent, it is a lie that is heard today that President Josipovic and the opposition are in conflict with the government, if this is quoted correctly, and is, then this government is in conflict with the complete constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Mrs. Kosor also wondered why Polancec met with the citizen Sanader, it is as irrelevant as why Mrs. Kosor met with the citizen Sanader, but it is important why the police chief Mr. Grbic did it. Sanader, I dare say he's superior, intelligence, and even the money he's been coming to, has managed to lie to the media, and today a team in power with a significantly limited team, and such capacities can only haunt unsettled people like the time of the Inquisition. And I don't know what's worse, whether it's worse that deception or this repression. I'm afraid this repression is worse. And that's why, as someone suggested, everyone has a polygraph, so let's go to the outsiders, and let's go to the both of them. That's right. And that's why this same investigative commission, because it's not true that all the investigative committees in this House have brought nothing good. Some judicial cases have been launched, but such an investigative commission can strengthen institutions and can restore little confidence from Croatian citizens to institutions. It is clear that everyone needs to be held accountable for what has been done, starts with me and beyond, and why anyone would be excluded from us from any investigation. But the point is, is that no media, no police, no justice, and I'm afraid at this point HDZ is literally operating as a state in the country. I would dare even say that Sanader was released in order to clearly preserve a little spiritual peace if man did not talk about everything he knows, what was happening in his day. These anonymous reports, so let's not play with them. I'm not defending myself or Linic or anyone else, but these anonymous messages are to the whole opposition, but to the whole country. It's a crawling coup, it's breaking all democratic principles, it's worse than what they're doing, Hunte. Hunte says we are now in power to suspend all democracy, constitution, laws, etc. in Croatia, the Constitution and the whole legal order are suspended in the name of democracy, if all is true. It is clear that future power must also not be run by politics, beatings, because it is rematchism, but what must guarantee the independence of institutions and fight that these institutions are truly autonomous, not that we are going to negotiate who can and who can be processed. It may have been an unfortunate formulation, but she has not been denied afterwards, so it would be good if someone in front of the government really told us what she thinks when she makes these scary statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70785	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First is Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70786	Thank you very much. Mr. Caine, you said it wasn't true that the investigative committees didn't do anything, but I assure you that much more has done to HANFA than the INA Investigation Commission and the privatisation of the INA that made the most mistakes, and in particular Branimir Glavas, mocked, almost made the entire investigation committee laugh. Well, after the investigation committee, there's no business in privatising INA or Karamarko or Karamladen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70787	Correction Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70788	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, your interpretation of Mrs Kosor's statement is both incorrect and scandalous. I've experienced it in a way that someone can't be... Wait a minute, and everyone in their right mind will experience it like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It cannot be processed unless there is evidence, if certain legal assumptions are not met, etc. It's actually her struggle for the rule of law, not the way you interpreted it. However, speaking of scandalous statements, I have not read a more scandalous statement from the one that Mr Cain just gave to the daily language and I am telling people to read it last week where he called for care, based on the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to prove that you are watching it, that Franjo Tudjman and Slobodan Milosevic's policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina was equal. That's both scandalous and embarrassing. And yet, on behalf of the Croatian public, you called there as you expect and how the Croatian public... that he would know it as the truth. [[You don't understand.]] It's both embarrassing and scandalous.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70789	Thank you very much. We have a further correction. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70790	Well, here's colleague Cain, you're the one who's calling for a coup claiming that the institutions are an extended arm of the HDZ. That's scandalous, that's number one. Secondly, you're not going to say that the unions are also extended-handed HDZ when they said that Istrom was run by the mob, that these so far have been accused of being small pioneers compared to you who run Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70791	Correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cain has cited several incorrect allegations. He tried to quote a statement from the Prime Minister who can and can be processed. Mr. Cain, when the media wrote about a month or two ago that an investigation was received by some of the country's former senior officials for crimes committed in World War II and porn, then the president of the state, Mr. Josipovic, spoke of the merits of these people. There's a noise in the hall. Is there a rabbit in this bush and whether the entire farce is related to anonymous criminal charges raised just because of this case is a matter for a nation that expects the arrival of the Holy Father, but it is certain that no one in these ranks will be beaten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70793	Correction, Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70794	Dear President, I also wanted to correct this claim by Mr. Cain that he is the most recent of all that Mrs. Kosor has said, so Prime Minister, that when it is so, let's agree on who should be allowed, who should not be prosecuted. The statement is in the right place and indeed at the right time because if there are investigations against members of some parties, then it is immediately a rebellion that it is political. If it's against the HDZ, then that's fine. So if we're going to make it so right then let's make a deal here in the Parliament and say against those and those members of these and these parties can be investigated, and some can't. But I think this is a great halloween to interfere with the conclusion of the negotiations and the conclusion of this chapter 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70795	We have further on behalf of the HDZ Club Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70796	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I must immediately say that we are not to be investigated for such a commission because we consider it politicizing. The politicalisation of ongoing investigations cannot contribute to the rule of law and to what we all swear, which is that we want to eradicate crime and corruption. Why do we consider that politicizing now? I'll explain. At what point did this request occur? So far, an investigation has been launched, and some charges have been brought against dozens and dozens of those who were close to HDZ and were in our ranks, as well as in the media of some remarks that it was a political persecution of HDZ and we did not raise it to the highest political level called the Croatian National Assembly and we did not seek an investigative commission but we decided to let the institutions do their job, which means DORH, which means the police, that means the Croatian judiciary. And we didn't politicize, but we said we'd be on investigation against everyone, no matter who they belong to. So what happened now? The goddess of justice on that scale has placed only one object on the left side of the scale and immediately explosions to the state council, immediately explosions to requests for an investigative commission, and that is obvious politicisation. In this case, on whose request and upon whose statements this commission would operate, on the basis of a statement by Mr Polancec, who is legally accused in one case, unlawfully in one case and against whom several other cases are under investigation where he is suspected of serious criminal offences. And based on a statement from such a person who uses everything and the public, including his lawyer, to try to take the charges and the guilt and the suspicions off him, that's why we're going to turn the whole state around and distract ourselves from the real investigations. No, we won't. Whatever the statement, let the police investigate what Mr. Grbic was doing, let the State's Attorney's Office investigate whether there are any elements for criminal charges and have them investigate all the competent institutions whether this is cooked in one famous kitchen and cooked and whether we must fall into that soup and destroy Croatia as a legal state. The politicisation of investigative bodies is not good for the eradication of crime and it is not good for the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union because we have come to this because we have not politicised but we have all said guilty if they are proved to be, no matter which party or political option they belong to. And now I'm asking you, if we go with the investigative committees, and we've changed the Constitution, and we've taken off all possible crimes in the past, are we going to set up an investigative committee and when it comes to the left side of the scale, and Excelsior and the privatisation of 25% of the INA shares that we didn't even know were privatized, it's a strategic package and Barbara and May 3rd and Markets and those millions and something that's missing in the Daimler Benz affair that's still unproven in someone's pocket, because as we know, the sum that Daimler Benz referred to is bigger than the one that's investigated and suspected. Are we going to establish investigative committees for all these left suspects, to call them so conditionally? Then this Parliament really won't do anything else. So please behave the way we did when members of our political options were suspected because it's the only way for the rule of law. So let's not politicize, let them work independently. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor is the most responsible for this wave of fight against corruption and crime. Now you're trying to do that because the election's close, because the campaign's started and you're trying to minimize it. You're not gonna make it. It is known who has done what in this country in the fight against crime, who has accepted that in our ranks they can be dishonest and it is known who will not accept it for their ranks. So please, let's be mature and up-to-date. Crime doesn't know parties. Crime knows only currency. In this case, the investigative committee would turn the subject away from the main culprits, and that's not in our best interest. We believe that the DORH police, the National Security Council, and, if necessary, judicial institutions will do what they have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70797	Thank you. We have a 9 correction of incorrect allegations so we can prepare for a longer debate. First Mr. Igor Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70798	I'm correcting the assumption that this request is to politicise the investigation on the basis of the investigation committee. There is no investigation, as the parliamentary commission is required to convene on the grounds of the suspicion of abuse of police director Oliver Grbic against political opponents by having been at all meetings at which he was based on his claims, with the knowledge of the interior minister. And I'm curious at this point if he knew the Minister of the Interior then probably also knew the Prime Minister. Which not only was the parallel system you speak of command existed before it continued to go away from Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70799	Thank you. This is before Mr. Andri Hebrang continued to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, when clubs are looking for what they're looking for, then it's a duty to give our Rules of Procedure five minutes to explain, and then there's no, as you know, only an incorrect assumption can be corrected, it can't be polarized to say so. Is it? It's not a replica, so please take that part. Because there are nine of us, so that's why I'm warning these eight who haven't yet spoken to that provision of our Rules of Procedure. And now for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70800	Thank you very much. Article 209 of my colleague did not correct my claim at all, because I did not say that it was politicization, but that we think it was politicization. And since May 1990, dear colleague, we have the right to think about your horror. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70801	Mr. Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70802	I'm correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Hebrang even though he doesn't need to be corrected because he can say very rarely, but he knows how to use falsehood as his speech. When you're talking about investigations and that there are investigations and that it shouldn't be an investigative commission, then you need to know neither there are criminal proceedings, nor there are weapons investigations and all that's happening in Rijeka. There are police abuses, frauds and police lies and it's a tragedy that you agree with that, that one police lie to work under a state's attorney's order, and the state's attorney didn't take part in it. But of course it's normal for you to have police abuse and explain and explain from this pay phone. You're the one who's yelling. You're the one who's yelling. But it's an honor to hear from this phone booth that there are investigations, and there are no investigations. Here and there will be. Yes, that's true in this House. You plant it here all the time. You're in contact with the police and you're lying and accusing this pay phone. And only you continue Mr. Hebrang on behalf of the club occasionally to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Linic, who hurt his Rules of Procedure, in Article 214. So he used the correction of an incorrect allegation to talk about everything else and insult MPs, insult the government, and insult everyone. You'd probably be less offended. And it seems to me that they want to set up another commission, which is that on this commission this Mr Linic is permanently declared innocent. And then maybe there wouldn't be any SDP moves like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70804	That's why I warned all of us, so let's try to bring in some new Rules of Procedure so there won't be any abuse of not correcting the incorrect allegations, or harming the Rules of Procedure and yes, but we'll move on. Also a violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70805	Thank you very much. Well, as far as jurisdiction is concerned, you have already warned, and I will warn of the violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Linic was quoting me again for something I didn't say. He said it was me who said there was an investigation without having to do it. I said let the institutions in charge decide whether to implement and how. I understand he doesn't hear well, because he's excited, because the goddess of justice finally took him to his mill. But I also don't understand why he's talking about occasional truths when he's the one who never tells the truth, and even less now that the goddess of justice brings him together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70806	We have Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70807	Now I don't know if Mr. Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Club, thought that the goddess of justice had leaned her hand to the left. But the goddess of justice either claimed it, but the goddess of justice in this case has nothing to do with it because it's a mounted political process. And this is not the first example of how the elections are getting closer, that the institutions of the state are increasingly being used to deal with political insatiables. The issue of all issues, and you can do so by this Assembly and the commission to be established, look at the statement of the Prime Minister that we need to agree on who can be processed and who does not protect the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70808	Correction, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70809	Thank you, Mr. President. Hebrang, a colleague, said that no investigation committee was requested when the processes began or suspected corruption by officials, so HDZ officials, and that now the Commission is looking for an investigative commission when suspicions of opposition party officials emerged. That's not true. An investigation committee was not requested when suspicions in public or elsewhere for officials of opposition parties arose. An investigative committee is sought when a suspicion was raised under the full name and name of your former Deputy Prime Minister and vice president of the party that the Police Director has purposely requested anonymous applications against the opposition officials. That's when the request for an investigative committee came forward. Nowhere has it ever been said that any state official, so to speak, the police or any other institution, has requested that an anonymous application be filed against the representatives or officials of the HDZ. And here it is said that the opposition officials are required to be submitted, which is what the Commission is looking for. An investigative committee, otherwise a colleague of Hebrang, if I may correct you here, is also an institution of the state. An institution of a state which determines political responsibility unlike the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70810	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70811	It is an incorrect claim that some so - called so - called “the left hand side of the judicial scale ” must come to the left. SDP's affairs are mentioned "Excelsior". Your colleague Frano Matušić asked a representative question to Minister of Economy Đuri Popiac and received a written reply that was shared here on the benches and before you also Dr. Hebrang. In response to this parliamentary question, Economy Minister Djuro Popijac, HDZ's Economy Minister, explicitly states that the privatisation of Excelsiora was verified, that it was legal and in line with all decisions of the Croatian Governing Council. Your claim that despite such a finding by your Ministry of Economy must go to the judicial scale is evidence that this Commission of Investigation should be established because today you also serve here by fulfilling Grbić's order and accusing anyone in the SDP of committing some crimes that have been found to be missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70812	Thank you. Mr. Hebrang, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70813	And again, Article 209, so two false claims he put in my mouth. First, I didn't say they had to come to the left side of the scale but that the investigations would show if they'd come to the left. ... I didn't say they had to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think they have to, but I didn't say that. And as far as these inventions are concerned, it only shows on which side is the goddess of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70814	Correction, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70815	Thank you. I'd like to correct some of Mr. Hebrang's allegations, but I don't know which one. In one person, several personalities. Every Hebrang who rises kills the former and says no, this Hebrang didn't say what he said before. So he got up five times, and every time we have the killing of the previous Hebrang. Well, I don't know which Hebrang I'm talking to. I'd be the first one to be here. ... Here, here's what was there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He said, the one that came out said that the investigations had started. No investigations have begun, Mr. One of Hebrang's. So it's not about that at all. This Hebrang who came out said it was a politicization of the investigation. So one of Hebrang's sitting there is not an exact statement. The gentleman accused, this is Linic, is not invited to any conversation. This Hebrang who came out said there were some kind of left suspects. What's the syntagma? What is it, Mr. One of Hebrang? I don't know at all. I mean, it's all about the unsuspecting statements. You say the commission should not be established, so you deny the meaning of the highest legislative body that reflects the sovereignty of the Croatian people. And just to finish, Hebrang, who came out, said an amazing amount of honesty when he said, quote, "The investigation committee is not in our best interest." Mr. One of Hebrang's now sitting in the bench listen to the first Hebrang, and you'll see that he said a lot of things that you claim he didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70816	I also think this nebulose one of Hebrang is not a way to communicate between colleagues in the Croatian Parliament because I ask you to, you have raised your hands to correct the incorrect quote and you raised your hand when Mr Hebrang spoke on behalf of the Croatian Parliament and you are correcting the incorrect quote. But then you mentioned one of Hebrang ten times, etc. That's not correct. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70817	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 214 has been injured in which his colleague Jurjevic is insulting, trying to insult his colleague Hebrang in his own way to suit him from which it is clear that he is insulting him. It's clear to all of us, and it's clear to the public that it offends him. And fellow Jurevic investigations have begun for left-handed people, yes. And for those who are in '44. And '45. mass-killing Croats, yes. And one of the ones responsible for those murders is Ante Jurjevic Baja, one of the credited ones who signed either way, who must be killed. Either way, you have to kill them. And you today have the cheeks here to insult a fellow Hebrang? ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70818	I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, let's not spread the subject of the debate. This wasn't the subject of the debate. So here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if there was, and I think it was pretty much there. And to spread it and to claim something else about it now may be one time we will discuss it in the Croatian Parliament and we will talk about it openly. So far, it's not the subject of our debate here. We also have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70819	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Coliga Jurjevic has injured Article 214 and I really don't know what level of circulation will be allowed in the Croatian Assembly by the SDP of individual MPs, not all of them, that they may be one important thing their president thinks is very important, mocking her in the style of one of the lowest folk parades. You keep your head down here, you don't stick to the Rules of Procedure, and when you don't stick to the Rules of Procedure, then it's neat... That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70820	The less you let me say it, I'd say in 90% of the cases we don't stick to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the Institute of Infringement of Rules of Procedure and correcting incorrect allegations. But as this has been tolerated here, and we haven't changed the Rules of Procedure that I constantly advocate to change, then what we can do, I don't want to end this Croatian Parliament's session to each of you saying you've overstepped, not correction, not this, not that, and in 90% of cases I can say exactly that. And that's why I'm asking you to come back and finish this, and we also have a violation of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70821	Shameless and unscrupulous, counterpart Jurjevic Baja, injured points 209 and 214. Point 209 is because everything he said was false and incorrectly quoted. And 214 because he insults, and he shouldn't insult even though he can't offend because it's always worth "It's important who says it, not what he says." Well, seeing a few Hebrangs to me is a compliment, I see a big zero in his place.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70822	This is unfortunately a generally adopted style of behavior in the Croatian Parliament. I expect when someone says something offensive to rebel around them as well and say don't talk like that, and not every time it's about the other way around, I don't justify anyone, but please, if you understand and if you want to help us figure this out and we finally go to the agenda points because we have over 60 points of the agenda, we haven't reduced any compared to last week, we'll have to do more and we'll have to work very intensively if we spend time correcting incorrect allegations, damage to the Rules of Procedure, and we spend an hour there. Please, we have three more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70823	Just before my colleague returns to 45th, I am not offended by the return to 45th, no offense, but I am offended by something else that is this chairing freedom, what is permitted by HDZ is obviously not allowed by the opposition and the current president is acting in that form. Although I understand him because under these circumstances it's hard to be as objective as possible, but through such a single presidential freedom, then we come up with these anonymouss. Anonymouss we see HDZ can tolerate it by you, you defend it in the spirit of democracy, it defends itself openly here in the Parliament, you consider it a kind of political struggle, but surely the vast majority of Croatian citizens consider it abuse and power and the positions of those who thus give "freedom to the police to act".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70824	Mr. Linic, there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70825	Abuse of this pay phone to be offended. It is not the first time that MP Matusic has worked and lied to insult, humiliated, qualified, it is his usual attitude, starting from 45th, so starting with me saying to this day, ending today. It is his way of understanding the Rules of Procedure, it is his way of sending messages to the Croatian public. Insult, humiliate, qualify. It's not a problem, and then, of course, he gets up and counsel Hebrang shows all of me would say the decency and culture of a man like him. Doctorial knowledge, academic knowledge, that's about what we're experiencing and seeing, I'm just still expecting you to call the police to help you deliver those threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70826	Mr. Zoran Vinkovic also injured the Rules of Procedure. He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70827	The breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done by Mr. Sumrak, given that he calls others, and that is what he is doing, I would ask that we break up with these violations of the Rules of Procedure, that we leave Ustasha and Partisans because Karamarko will leave the Assembly, and it would be good to have the Home Office Minister and Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70828	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70829	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Linic injured the Rules of Procedure of Article 214 because he accused me of lying, of what I said today, and of what I say otherwise. My colleague Linić, unfortunately for you, what I said about Ante Jurjevic Bajje is a historical document that is documented and published in books and you can find in the historical archive and on that historical document he writes the signature of Ante Jurjevic Baja which ends with a sentence, so that document ends with a sentence related to people... and says "Anyway, kill them must be killed" and that is the historical truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70830	I tried to say that we don't need here about history and that if we can skip that topic, although I don't even underestimate it at all, it's in our Constitution, etc., that there are no outdated crimes, etc. It's not about that now. So, to conclude, I agree with Mr. Vinkovic's constructive proposal to finish it anyway, and now we have three more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70831	Mr. President. Well, I've lifted a plate of injuries from the Rules of Procedure to the presentation of my colleagues, now I'm going to say you don't have to warn me, just take care of yourself, fellow Linic, who exposed himself to the injury of the Businessman. So, 209th and 214th, please take care of yourself. However, I'll just say these injured articles. I really don't think circusing in this House is allowed in the interest of citizens. And they want their board, so let their party board say you're Mr. Linic's innocent for life, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70832	... Mr. Ivan Bagaric. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70833	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Linic, injured Article 214 because he was in fact insulting our club president the second time in a row. Mr. Andrija Hebran is one of the war ministers of health, 214, I said, one of the health ministers of war, one of the most successful ministers, humanists and state and national and international experts. One of the most respected people, one of the most responsible people among other things for the formation and creation of the Croatian state. And one in the end of those who suffered because of the monopoly on how you are here now and because of the repression of those you are now protecting in a certain way. And it's really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70834	Mr. Linic also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70835	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of If it's not the same Mr. Matusic's insult, then I wonder if we understand each other. Mr. Matušić addresses Marina Jurjevic as a representative in this House, and talks about '45. And he's talking about some of his '45 sightings. Wanting to send a clear message that Marin Jurjevic is the killer. Is that acceptable in this House? Is that how we communicate? It's a way of communicating. You must say nothing in this House. They will also draw out barbarians as ancestors to try to give you a clear message to the Croatian public who they are. And, ma'am, I'm not in the circus business, I'm trying to warn you of these embarrassing behaviors. Matushic is allowed to lie, to tell the truth, to prevent and draw the family. It's not the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70836	I will continue to preserve my nerves and end this complete failure in my opinion of the debate, especially with regard to the injury of the Businessman. So, please be patient. We've got two more injuries. First Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70837	I said before, I don't envy the president, it's hard to keep my nerves. But precisely because today in 2011, some others would not suffer as Mr Hebrang suffered, and in order not to suffer a family today like his, don't let the gentlemen of the HDZ touch anyone. It's not a form of political struggle, it's an abuse of institutions. You just don't have a right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70838	What to say, who hurt the Businessman, nothing, that's just how he eats, whoever thinks of what to say, but don't think that I don't know it, and I don't have my judgment about it. But I want this to end. Mr. Frano Matušić also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70839	I give up, Mr. President, the Croatian public is clear on what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70840	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70841	I'm not giving up, Mr. President, let me quote 214 again where my colleague Cain re-insulted HDZ when he called not to pack, as he said not to pack, I don't think there's anyone here who's packing or packing anything. And Mr. Caine's been doing that for years. So, for years, the pack has only a little, for years, packed with Croatia, the Croatian president Tudjman has been packing for years, packing for the Croatians in BiH, and for years it has been saying what he recently said in "Avaza" which is embarrassing and I call on people to read and its statements there that mud the Croatian people in Croatia and the Croatian leadership and the state of Croatia and accuses in advance, in advance, the Croats now who are in court in The Hague and who await the verdict. You may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70842	Looks like we're done with this, though. Packing means it's a duration, and I guess it's not packed in advance. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've sent a message about your demands and informed the government what you're looking for. Furthermore, I would like to inform here that Mr. Petar Selem, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, called a session today at 13.30 p.m. in the hall of Stjepan Radic 133/1, so at 13.30 p.m. Finally, thank you all despite everything we've been through. Let's move on. We're moving on to the final draft of the law. No, we didn't. Correction of the inaccuracy of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70847	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I waited patiently for him to stop insulting and hurting the Businessman. I am correcting the quote of fellow Hebrang, who gave the basis for whose statements, the statements of Damir Polancec. Not a fellow Hebran. I did not mention Damir Polancec's statement, and I based my request solely on police director Oliver Grbić's statement, not Damir Polanec's. It is true that Damir Polancec said Oliver Grbic obviously had experience with anonymous criminal charges but I did not quote it. But now I wonder if the director of the police except for the experience or knowledge of anonymous criminal charges has any experience and knowledge of writing and sending anonymous threatening letters.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70848	Correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70849	First of all, Mr. Bagaric, why do I use the term pack because Tito told Tudjman not to pack through Krleža. But I now wish to correct the two incorrect allegations of Mr. Hebrang. Let the police investigate etc., however, it is difficult for the police to investigate their chief of police who has all the gentlemen working with the political summit of this country and it is now logical that this summit protects him because they are the ones who gave him orders. And secondly, Mrs. Kosor is the most responsible, alluding to the Sanader and Polancec case. Polancec, Sanader, these are jump objects. The BOOK is in motion, so the police have to cooperate logically. So it was not that the autonomous police, and let's say, under the allegations of politics, launched these proceedings rather than the Croatian judiciary. What politics and police have done is that Sanader was allowed to walk from the Republic of Croatia just before Christmas or New Year 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70850	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70851	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote to a fellow respected Hebrang. Namely, there are two points. One is that this is all for the purpose of the election campaign that has begun. As far as I know, all political parties are campaigning on the day after the last election. Secondly, the claim that Jadranka Kosor has launched a fight against corruption and crime is, in fact, for the purpose of fostering the character and the work that is normally common in HDZ. That's how they celebrated Mr. Sanader, and then they gave him up and spit. In fact, it is incorrect that Mrs. Kosor started a fight against corruption and crime rather than the HDSSB club, particularly Professor Dr. Šišljagic warned here five years ago about all the criminal activities around Sanader and his government. Unfortunately, when I said such a thing here, then I got an answer from that same vice president of the government that has to talk about it being a war criminal party. Second or under b...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70852	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70853	Wait a minute. The Deputy Prime Minister was certainly familiar with ironing, washing, and packing. Well, then, she didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70854	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70855	And third.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70856	Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70857	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to consult within the club for a vote of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70858	Some have warned us that they don't have much time, if we can say we're going to start voting, let's say 11 and 45. Don't go anywhere, please, we'll finish it soon. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose an addition to the 23rd session agenda for 28 new points. 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 639. 1. Final proposal of the Road Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 661. 1. Final proposal of the Service Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 669. 1. Final proposals of the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, second reading, P.Z. No. 672. 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 821. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention amending the 1958 Maritime Identification Corrections Convention, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 822. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law establishing a university in Dubrovnik, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 823. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 824. 1. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2010. 1. Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2010. 1. Report on the financial audit carried out by the High Schools for 2009, with contributions. 1. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television for the remainder of the term of office. 1. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2010. 1. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2010. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 825. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Control of dual-purpose goods, with the Final Proposal of the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 826. 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2011 Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and Croatia of 5/5/2011 amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of the concept of "Produced by origin" and the way of administrative cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 887. 1. Proposal for a Law on Juvenile Courts, First Reading, P.Z. No. 828. 1. Retirement Fund 2010 report. 1. Proposal for a draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 1. Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010. 1. Final proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 667. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial planning and construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 829. 1. Proposal for a Law on dealing with illegal buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 830. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Property Relations for the construction of infrastructure buildings, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 831. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 832. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman, first reading, P.Z. No. 833. 1. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter It determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure. I stress that the draft law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. the number 824 of points 8 and Proposal for a Law on the Control of Roma with a dual purpose with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, P.Z-E. No 826 of 16 compliance with EU rules and in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We do not vote on the matter of urgency in the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. 86 we can approach the vote. First, does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime, P.Z. No. Point 881 of point 5. If not, we'll go to the vote. Let's get involved and vote on the emergency proposal for this agenda item. Let's vote. The proposal to discuss the emergency procedure was accepted by most votes, 93 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Convention attesting the Convention amending the 1958 Maritime Identification Documents Convention, P.Z. No. Point 6 is replaced by the following: If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. Score. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 98 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law establishing the University of Dubrovnik, P.Z. No. Point (a) of point (b) of Article 88(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 is replaced by the following: If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on urgency. Score. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 96 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on holidays, memorials and non-working days in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 825, point 5. Mr. Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70860	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. This law raises very big doubts that the Croatian Helsinki Committee for Human Rights has responded to, and indeed there is no need for such a holiday law to be passed by emergency procedure. I therefore ask that he go into regular procedure because it is a very delicate political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70861	Thank you very much. We have an objection to the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage, respecting this remark and deciding on it. Please, let's get involved and vote Yes, for the urgency of the procedure, yes. [[/Intruder: Are we voting on urgency?]] And we have an objection to urgency. Please make a statement. Score. 79 for urgency, 3 abstentions and 13 against. So it's listed as an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2011 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the EU and Croatia of 5.5.2011, amending and supplementing Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, as regards the definition of "products of origin" and methods of administrative cooperation, P.Z. No. Point 827, point 17. If not, please state the urgency of the procedure for this point. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 91 votes to, 1 abstention, 1 against. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Property Law for the purpose of the construction of infrastructure buildings, P.Z. No. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. Score. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 88 votes to, 3 abstentions and 1 against. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, P.Z. No. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. This proposal was unanimously accepted by 92 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session? These are points under points 1, 2, 3, 4, and points 9 to 14, points 18 to 24 and points 27 and 28 of the submission. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70862	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When it comes to the inclusion of remaining points in the agenda of the SDP Club Assembly, it reminds you that on 25 May, as the president of the Assembly, he referred you to the proposal for a decision to set up an investigation committee to determine the role of Police Director Oliver Grbić on the submission of anonymous applications against members of opposition parties, in particular regarding the acquisition of arms by the Emergency Staff of the Rijeka Municipality of 1991. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigating committees is stated: the establishment of an investigative committee of the House of Parliament must be decided at the first session after the President of the House of Parliament has received a proposal drawn up in a manner specified in Article 6 of this Act. So it's not the first session, it's the first session, it's the first session possible. Since this request was sent on May 25th, since this session was convened, so that it should have been completed long ago and a new session called, the SDP Club is asking you as president of the Parliament why this item is not included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70863	Thank you. I'm going to answer, just now I'm asking if there's any comments on these proposed agenda points that I've made here, that I'm not reading all over, I've read it one time, so under the points that I've listed here. If not, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. As for the proposal to establish an investigative committee this session takes a little longer than usual and this session has its number. It is the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with the law we will propose that at the next session of the establishment, we will put it on the agenda, it is already proposed. So, put on the agenda at the next session and that is my answer on this initiative. Thank you very much. Now we're going to move to a decision on the discussed agenda points. You're not looking? And before the vote? Well, there should be a vote now, so now you're asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70864	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I should now request a recess for the club's session in order to agree on how to vote. For the sake of efficiency, I am asking you not to set a break, but to allow me to state the SDP's position on the vote on the points that stand here for the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70865	So we'll assume that you had a break, that it lasted only a few seconds and now go ahead. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70866	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the SDP club wants to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public that we will not participate in the selection process of members of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. We will vote on other votes, but we will not take part in this vote. There's a few reasons for that. First, a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of this Law was submitted. Secondly, we demanded that the law be passed and we suggested that this law be passed by 2/3 of the majority. So to make a consensus in this House so that the commission has not only the trust of this House but the trust of the general public. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which the public does not trust, cannot carry out its duties in a quality way. That observation was not accepted. The commission was elected by the government's majority, so the parliamentary majority elected by the government will be a commission to protect the interests of the government and the majority. Such a commission can serve only once, which is that it does not question the potential conflict of interest among members of the ruling group, and that opposition invents and insinuates and that the opposition is persecuted by conflicts of interest where it does not exist. So this commission is going to be a political body already by the way it's being chosen. We have such a case in individual investigative committees, which most parliamentary deputies concluded, for example, that counterpart Roncevic is not at all guilty in the affair of trucks, although the judicial lawyer later said otherwise. One such body also concluded the other day that Oliver Grbic and the police did not commit any violations even though the police acted here without a warrant from the State's Attorney's office, and they lied that they had such a warrant. Therefore, this Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest will most likely behave equally. Such a commission cannot be trusted. Such a commission will not be able to fulfill its public function. Such a commission will be one political body and we do not want to participate in such a commission, and after the election, order will be introduced into this country and this Law will probably change, and then the president of the commission will again be from the opposition ranks, from your ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70867	Thank you. We have a few corrections. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70868	Thank you very much. Well, I'll only correct two of a series of incorrect corrections by fellow Stazic. He said this commission would work biasedly, that it would not be impartial, that it would be political etc. That's incorrect. The commission was elected under the law. Everyone could have been involved. There was a public call. So the democratic path was allowed for everyone to participate and we have no right to judge anyone who hasn't even taken office yet. That's incorrect and incorrect. And another incorrect allegation that the right word said that Mr. Roncevic was guilty. And that's not true. There is no judgment of power. In a civilised state, counterpart Stazic, who is not legally convicted, is innocent. My colleague Roncevic is still innocent and I hope he stays that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70869	Thank you. Correction Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70870	So it is an incorrect claim by the respected representative of Stazic that this commission will be directed towards the persecution of the opposition. So, it won't be objective and biased, it'll haunt the opposition. It is an incorrect claim, and otherwise it is moving concern because MP Stazic says SDP will win the next parliamentary elections and HDZ will go into opposition. And you're actually worried, thank you for the HDZ that this commission will not persecute HDZ then who will be in opposition. So thank you for that very moving concern for HDZ. Thank you, indeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70871	Thank you. Correction Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70872	Thank you, Mr. President. I also adhere to the corrections made by Mr. Club President, Mr. Hebrang and Mr. Vice President Seks, and in the same way I remove that incorrect assumption that this commission is actually political. Does this mean that all the laws passed by the laws are only HDZ or coalitions, etc. on the same basis. However, I point out what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid this isn't an announcement by the SDP strategy that any correction or anything that is spoken of, and it pointed to anything that any of the SDPs have done will actually be an alibi to say that it's a political cover-up behind it, and it's not good at all. This message is certainly not a good message that the SDP is sending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70873	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, please include checking the quorum so that we can then move to a vote on agendas and cross-referenced agendas. Please, let's get on with it. There's more of us than we get involved. 81, we can decide. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this 23rd session with 15 new points: 1. PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 834. 2. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE SUPPORT OF DRUGS, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 835. 3. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SURVEILLANCES OF THE Health PROTECTION LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 836. 4. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND ENDMENTS OF THE AIR TRANSPORT LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.E. No. 837. 5. PROPOSAL OF THE SCIENTIFIC INDICATION LAW, First Reading, P.Z. No. 838. Six. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE UNIVERSE, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 839. Seven. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on free legal aid, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 840. 8. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE FUNDS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CROATIA AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION WITH REGARD TO THE NATIONAL PROGRAMME FOR CROATIA IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE IPA PROGRAMMES — COMPONENT AID IN TRANSITION AND STRONGING UP THE INSTITUTION FOR 2010. Year, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 841. Nine. Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 842. Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System 10. (a) PROPOSAL OF DECISION OF THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE CROATIAN REPORTING AGENCY (b) REFERRED TO IN THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE GOVERNMENTAL COUNCIL OF THE CROATIAN NEWS AGENCY 11. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crimes Victims after the Second World War 12. Annual report on the work of the State Commission for 2010 YEAR FOR PUBLIC AUTHORITY CONTROL: State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures 13. STRATEGY PLAN OF THE CROATIAN FUND FOR SCIENCE 2011-2015 YEAR Carrier: Croatian Foundation for Science 14. Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2010 YEAR Carrier: Croatian Foundation for Science 15. PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE AUTHORITY OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER STATES OF THE CIVIL SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCE AGENCY The Proposer: The Committee for Internal Policy and National Security The proposal for an amendment to the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the proposal for a law supplementing the drug abuse law with the final bill, P.Z.E. No. 835nd point 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 837. and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance with the Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. They shall comply with the rules of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum again or not necessary. We have a quorum. So let's go to the vote. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 836rd point three? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of this proposal. The result? For this proposal, it was accepted by most votes, 84 votes in favour, nothing abstention, none against. Does any of the representatives or advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission regarding the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme - Component of Assistance in Transition and Strengthening of Institutions for 2010, P.Z. No. 841nd point 8? If there isn't, please let's get involved and vote on the urgency of this bill. This emergency proposal was adopted unanimously with 85 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session. These are points under one, five, six and points nine to fifteen of the proposed additions so I don't read. I read them earlier and marked them with numbers. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70874	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we have an objection to the entry into the agenda of the item under the regular number of one Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, five Laws on Scientific Activity, six Laws on the University for two fundamental reasons. First, there is a consensus on these laws of the professional and academic public that they are bad and will not do good to the system of science and higher education. And for us in the SDP, it's almost amazing that Minister Fuchs has succeeded, and that is to unify a profession that is actually a consensus against these bill proposals. The second reason is political, because Mr. President, politically, at the very least, it is rude of the government in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament to refer to the full reform laws in the last months of the term of office in which they will not succeed or adopt implementing rules for the application of the law, let alone in some way implement them in practice. Therefore, we ask that the inclusion of the agenda of these laws of Parliament be made clear, with another note that the profession of these laws is unique, in the view of the contrary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70875	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a comment from the SDP Club on the points of the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education 834, Proposal for a Law on the Scientific Activity of P.Z. No. 838, and Proposal for a Law on the University, first reading, P.Z. 839. So they're actually opposed to putting these agenda points on the agenda. So we'll vote. First on the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education. Please include and vote on whether or not to be included in the agenda of this session P.Z. Number 834. So we vote on it. Please, we have a proposal for a Law on Higher Education. He notes that the SDP Representatives Club is to be placed on the agenda. I now put to the vote, who, who will vote to vote, will vote plus, who won't down or, I think it's quite clear, there's no misunderstanding there. Is that clear? Please choose to engage and vote. ... No, no, all individually. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please vote P.Z. 834, whether to turn on or not. Please, let's get involved and vote. We could have done something different. So to be included in agenda 71, 4 abstentions and 24 v. If you think the procedure is hurt here, you can vote on the amendment actually SDP, so you'll vote on the SDP amendment, if you think it's better, but I don't think so. We're going to the 5th proposal, under point 5. Proposal for a Act on Scientific Activity, First Reading, P.z. No. 838, also a comment by the SDP Representatives Club. I am voting on whether to include or accept the SDP Representatives' Club's proposal not to. You're welcome to vote. The result? This bill was accepted to be included in the agenda with 70 votes for, 4 abstentions and 22 against. And we have a proposal for the University Law, P.Z. the number 839, under point 6, also with the comments of the SDP Representatives Club not to be included. Please, let's get involved and vote. This bill is included in the agenda by most votes, 70 votes for, 7 abstentions and 24 against. On the other points, there were no objections from the lady and the representatives of the supplementary agenda were established. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced today, we will complete the agenda on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure. So I'm going to suggest 13 new points. Please engage to check the quorum. Please engage to check the quorum for voting and then proceed again with the agenda point. The result? 88 here. Please, we didn't get involved for it, although... All right, we got 77. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Show me. So 79. We can move to the agenda, actually, to supplementing the agenda. As I said on the basis of Article 209(2), Rules of Procedure. 1. THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF THE ‘NOVA CULTURE’, second reading, P.Z. No. 794 1. The final proposal of the Law on Juvenile Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 828 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE COURT OF BLUES, REMENDMENTS AND UNLOCK DAYS IN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. 843 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAMME, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 844 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE COUNTRIES AND SITES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE State'S LAWS, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS, the emergency procedure, first and second readings, P.Z. No. 845 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, with Final Proposal for Laws, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 846 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE NOTIFICATION OF THE SALONIT D.D. IN THE PURPOSE OF VRANJIC, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 847 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 848 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE Press LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY PROCEDURE, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 849 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons who enter into or stay illegally, with a final proposal for legislation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 850 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT REGIST LAW, WITH THE FINISH PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 851 1. PROGRAMME OF NATIONAL POLICIES FOR THE PROFESSION OF POLICIES FOR THE PROFESSION OF SPECIFIC EQUALITY OF POLICULARITY OF SPECIFICS, FOR THE financial year 2011 Until 2015. CHAPTER 1. Report on jobs completed and funds spent in 2010. YEAR FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURPOSE, THE HOUSE OF APARTMENTS IN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 2011. YEARS The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the draft Act on the Impact Assessment of Regulations with the final draft law, P.Z.E. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. So I'm determining that we have a quorum, that we can rightly decide. And we're going to make a decision. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Lawyers of the P.Z. No. 845th, point 5? Yeah. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70877	So here's the brief mention of only two cases that the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Nasice joins the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Đakov and that the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Osijek joins the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Bela Manastir and Valpova. So I believe that this is how one of the far-reaching consequences for the work of these state's attorneys in these cities in Slavonia can't be brought forward by an urgent procedure and that's why I'm asking for an end to the emergency procedure and I'm looking for another reading. And a normal change, and I'll file amendments for it. So once again, if only I were to warn the students, we obviously learned to solve problems on the streets, and as far as djakovishness is concerned, I see this Salonite and the compensation of the workers, so I call on the government to take it also seriously, and also to change this decision. Just like they'll have to change her for a state bachelor. When ergel Lipik was joined with the ergel, that is, Ergel Djakovo was moved to the ergel Lipik.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70878	We understand everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70879	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70880	Thank you. We also have, please, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70881	So, Your Honor, Mr. President, here's a proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys with a final draft of the law. So, where the government proposes an emergency procedure, for us at the SDP club, it is absolutely unacceptable to shut down 32 state attorneys by an urgent move of feathers. And there are those among them who are also on the islands, for example, the State Attorney's Office in Supetar on the island of Brač, where a few months ago the government approved three more places for court, and I will say something about the courts, so that here is now the move of the feather to put out those state attorneys who have such an inflow, which ultimately means compliance with the provisions of the Island Law, and that I do not speak in some other land areas. I can generally say, therefore, that the movement of the feather cannot put out 32 judicial bodies. That's not a country that's ever gone hand in hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70882	We have here an objection to the urgency of passing this law. I would like to inform you that Mr. Zoran Vinkovic and Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović have an objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law, so please let us take part and vote with this note that I have said... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, please, please... And we can use our hand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who is for use, or who is for Mr Vinkovic and Mrs Anticevic-Marinović's proposal not to allow the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. So, who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure? The result? 22 against, 70 for. So he's going through an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure of the Amendment Act and the additions of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 846, point 6.? Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, then Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70883	Same thing. Here in Article 2 of the amendments, I object to an emergency procedure. It is said that the Municipal Court in Nasice is also in charge of the district of the Municipal Court in Đakov, and the Municipal Court in Osijek is fortunate that it is not somewhere further, for the area of the Municipal Courts in Belom Manastir and Valpovo. So I propose to the distinguished government and HDZ and those who are saying that the Djakova cathedral is being transferred to Duboba in the way that this is done with Djakov. And I ask you to understand the complexity of the situation. You have 150 years of Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, many of you have passed the end of Strossmayer Gallery and Croatian Science and Arts, founded by Bishop of Djakovci, Srijemski and Bosnian Josip Juraj Strossmayer. And we can laugh, but you can't do this to Slavonia or Djakov. It's another circus with the defenses, but this is an even bigger circus and let the pig go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70884	You may object to the urgency of the procedure. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70885	The SDP club opposes 30 courts, 30 municipal courts and their criminal departments being put out in an emergency procedure. The municipal court in Supetar, here I read the report from the meeting of the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court and the County Court in Split and the President of the Municipal Court in Supetar, and the meeting was in Zadar, where it was decided and writtenly established that two other judges were granted to that court, and now neither for a month nor a half of the day you have abolished the full court. Gentlemen, don't remove the courts, you won't prevent the trial from happening that way. There is absolutely something unacceptable, therefore, and in past times and systems there have been so many times and debates about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70886	And you're opposed to urgency?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70887	We object. And perhaps, allow the president a sentence that is very important. I think an eye should achieve one consent. For us, the courts and one of our fundamentals are our legal history. Well, even in Imotski, a court was established to judge criminal matters in 1856. Well, we can't, by the move of feathers and those smaller vessels, shut down for this very important and suicidal reason and determination.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70888	The question is whether or not there would be two objections to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic and Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please have your eyesight. And now I'm asking you who's in charge of the urgency of this bill, raise your hand? Please count. Who's against the urgency of the procedure, please count it? The result? For the urgency of proceedings 69, v. 21, therefore, goes according to emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives or representatives have an objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the compensation of the employees of the company "Solonit" d.d. in Vranjic bankruptcy, with the final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 847 points 7.? Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70889	I believe that this law should go to a second reading, since there are more companies in Croatia where workers were deceived by the Croatian government who managed these companies, had a management package, appointed administrations, had board members, such as "Djakovština" d.d. in Djakov. And I ask that these damages, you may laugh. A little warning, Mr. President. And I demand that this law be complemented by all these companies where workers also seek first meeting in the Croatian government or in the ministry, and until today they have not received an answer. It is known by respected HDZ representatives from Slavonia and what kind of company it is and who brought it to ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70890	Thank you. We have an emergency statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70891	And as for me, I'm writing amendments to the courts and the state's attorneys' offices, so you'll see that I've advocated survival in all these places, unlike you who raise your hand to be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70892	This is what we're talking about now, the Salonite Trading Society. Who is to apply an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law, which otherwise is opposed by Agent Vinkovic, please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? One, two, three, this law goes into emergency. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Electronic Media, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 848? If there's no one for the urgency of the procedure, would you please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 91 votes. Does any of the representatives or advocates have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Media Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 849, point 9.? If there's no one in need, would you please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? One, two, three, so we have a situation 88 for, three against. Any of the representatives or advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure under the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 850, point 10? If there's no one for an emergency procedure in passing this law, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? An emergency proposal with 91 votes was accepted unanimously. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, P.Z. No. 851, point 11. Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70893	Your Honor, Mr. President, if the emergency procedure knows the seats of the municipal courts, I believe that this law should go to another reading because it also deals with this problem. And I'd like to ask if you can guarantee me when I come home now so that someone doesn't take down a board named Djakovo, that in the meantime the government wouldn't suggest that that name be abolished and written, for example. Dobbies or Salzburg lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70894	Thank you. We have an objection to the urgency of passing this law. Who is it that this law goes by emergency procedure please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? One, two, three. Score. This urgency in lawmaking has been accepted 87 for, 3 against. If any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session, those shall be points 1, 2, 3 and 12 and 13 of the proposed additions. Not to read them, we know and we read them. Please, what, an addition to the agenda, which remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70895	Well, I have since this meeting, this session, I would ask you if you know as President of the Parliament and chairing these sessions as long as this session has points in total and I'm not saying it because of vacations. As long as this session will last and I believe that as one of the holders of the pillars of government in the Republic of Croatia, the legislative authorities, you know when there will be parliamentary elections or we as parliamentary representatives must watch Dnevnik today to find out what you agreed with Fristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70896	Are there any objections to these agenda points?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70897	And I'd like you to answer as my representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70898	I will, but do you have any objections at points?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70899	Because we're not cutlery sheep here. If anyone thinks we're sheep, then it's another thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70900	Since there is no objection to this agenda, this agenda has been established. And I'll answer your question when I'm able. We'll have 55 plus 13, 68 agenda points so far, until the end of 15, and we'll see. Thank you very much. Now we continue, so the agenda is established. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work, and as announced firstly, I will propose the completion of the agenda, and then we will decide on the points discussed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of this 23rd session with 22 new points. And that – 1. Final proposal of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, second reading, P.Z. No. 830. 2. Proposal for the Air Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 852 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 853 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, first reading, P.Z. No. 854 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Unions, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 855 6. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 856 7. Proposal for a Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 857 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 858 9. Proposal for a Household Act, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 859 10. Proposal for a Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Data Collection Act by insurance undertakings on contributions to compulsory pension insurance, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 860 11. Proposal for a Law on public enforcement fees, first reading, P.Z. No. 861 12. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 862 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Audiovisual Activities, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 863 14. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 829 15. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 864 16. Proposal for a Law of Foundation on Public Procurement, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 865 17. Proposed Penal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 866 18. Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2011 Carrier: National Committee 19. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINE from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011. Carrier: Administrative Council HINE 20. Work and business report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2010 Carrier: Croatian Pension Insurance Institute 21. Report on business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2010 Carrier: Croatian Small Economy Agency 22. Report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2010 Carrier: Public Advocate. That would be you. And a proposal for a Public Procurement Act, with a final bill. I therefore stress that the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, with the final proposal for a law, is an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 864, point 15, and Proposal for a Public Procurement Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. The result? Please, let's get on with it. 96 present, and you count 109. Anyway, we have a quorum. Let's go vote. Any of the representatives or advocates of the objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, that is, P.Z. 853, point 3? If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on the proposed urgency for this bill. Please, let's get involved, let's vote. The result? The urgency was accepted by most votes, 85 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Unions, P.Z. Number 855, point 5? If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on urgency. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 84 votes to four abstentions and one against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement establishing an International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation. It's P.Z. 856, item 6? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 88 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, P.Z. No. 858th under point 8.? If there is no, please let's get involved and vote on the urgency of this proposal. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Flego, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70902	I would like to remind you that the Law on primary and secondary education was passed in 15.07.2018. That the amendments to the law were 15.07.2019, that the amendments to the law were 14.07.2019 and that, despite our warnings from the new year, the amendments to the law came at the last week of the session. And I really don't know if it makes any sense for us to get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70903	You object to an emergency procedure. So, please, let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure with this proposal by Mr. Iron Flege, who opposes the application of the emergency procedure. Let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 72 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 31 against. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Household Act, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 859, point 9.? Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70904	I have an objection to the urgency of the procedure because of one matter written in the last 15 days in terms of amendments to this law. I don't think there's any need for that part of the law to be written in just 15 days. Neither the profession nor the public had enough time to show about the changes in this law which is very confusing and which will again do much more damage than it does in a very sensitive area in which it is in our interest that foster care be regulated in a much better way than it is regulated by this law at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70905	Thank you. With this proposal from the lady, so that this law is not passed by emergency procedure, let us please include and vote on the emergency proposal. The result? So the urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 70 for, 2 abstentions and 30 against urgency. If any of the representatives or advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Data Collection Act by insurance undertakings of contributions to compulsory pension insurance, that is, P.Z. No. 860th point 10? If I'm not putting this on, let's get involved and vote on urgency. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted, 87 votes for, nothing abstentions and one against. Any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Pension Fund Act, P.Z. No. 862nd point 12? If we don't get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 86 for nothing abstentions and 1 against. If any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Audiovisual Activities, that is, P.Z. No. 863rd point 13.? There isn't. Let's get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. Thank you. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 84 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 23rd session, such as items under paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 7, 11, 14 and points 17 to 22 of the proposed addition? If there's no agenda we've completed and I'm just asking you not to read all these agenda points, I've read them before. Thank you. That's how we completed the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking a question to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 180 to 184. Rules of Procedure. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session, prior to the first item of the agenda. The first in line to ask questions is a representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70907	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the Prime Minister, I welcome all ministers. And I refer this question to the Minister of Justice, and it concerns issues related to the regulation of land books. So, we know that in the Republic of Croatia, the process of editing land books is under way, and in this process, the following situations are observed in relation to long-term legal and fair owners of agricultural, forest and other land, and still in refugee status: firstly, such owners are prevented from resolving their ownership rights because the deadlines for these things are too short, because there are no sufficient resources for individuals for such matters and there is no document to prove previous ownership because of the known past circumstances. The other thing is that they've been honest and legal owners for dozens of years. And the third thing is that people are completely uninformed about the need for a promotional resolution of their ownership relations. As a result of such a handicap, the state uses its legal option and in haste, it would be said in some secret without the knowledge of the owners, registered as the owner of those properties. Such examples are in the area of Vrsik municipality near Nin, and such examples are also in the area of Vrlika, where refugees are presently owned, and the state ownership process is ongoing. They could cite a number of such examples and the consequences of unsettled land books. So my question, Mr. Minister, is this: what does the ministry intend to do to protect the property rights of refugee returnees where the Republic of Croatia signed up as owner of their possessions and without their knowledge?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70908	Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70909	Thank you very much. The best way to prevent these things is to make precise and orderly records and registers of land books. I must say that the Republic of Croatia is really making a great deal of efforts and great resources to clear up and orderly registers of land books and we have a common information system. It is a program that combines data from catasters and land books because, as we know, the Republic of Croatia has a cadastre that once ran both property records and land books that keep ownership records. We have now developed a program after a certain number of years, an extremely good programme, and I would say unfortunately and extremely expensive, but we have united data and we have created a program that data catasters and land books are in the same place. But let me just say what kind of work that is. In the Republic of Croatia, we have about 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities. In these 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities, we have 15 million cadastar particles, 5 million owners of these particles. Of those 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities around 230, we don't have land books. And now for those lands, for those areas where we don't have land books, we're running a process of setting up land books. In order to establish them, we need to carry out a new measure. And the government is making decisions for those areas where traffic is intense to set up land books, to open up the meaning of new measurements, and in situations like this, if there has been some unwarranted recording, there are legal mechanisms to fix it. One of these, of course, needs to be contacted by the State Attorney's Office and in a peaceful procedure analyzed and seen the facts that led to possibly the kind of problem you're talking about. But it is extremely important this project of a common information system and I would like to say that such a pilot program in relation to the programme we have made already exists in the Požega and Zadar court and our intention is to spread it to all of Croatia over the next few years. Then in one place you will have data and related to the cadastre and land books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70910	Thank you. Mr. Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70911	I thank Mr. Minister for this clarification that was very exhaustive and we accept that this is a very extensive job, to seek out certain efforts, resources, and time and so on. However, we still have some impression that in these cases that I was talking about the state was a few too busy when it was doing these things, that is, when it entered into the ownership of long-term owners, and it is mainly about the category of powerless people who can't come and participate in these negotiations, or attempts at alignment, as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70912	Thank you very much. I should have said this before Mr. Representative Mile Horvat, which is why I apologize to Mrs. Opacic, it's not working but I actually skipped it. I would like to warn all MPs and MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure in terms of time and how to ask questions, and that's exactly what it says there, and the answers that government members will give. And I also ask you to conclude, in accordance with what the Croatian Parliament Presidency has expanded with the club presidents, on asking questions to be without personal these or those insults, whether representatives, or members of the government. Well, there may be no need to warn that, but here's to remind ourselves that we've discussed it and brought our views on it. I apologize once again to Mrs. Opacic, she's up to ask a question. Here you go, Mrs. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70913	Thank you. My question is to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. First of all, good day and welcome to the Croatian Parliament. I'm sure you've heard that we've called you for days and weeks to come to the Croatian Parliament and say... Mr. President, I'm asking you nicely, I think I'm correctly starting to ask questions. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] So we've been calling you here for days.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70914	... what they have and that, in accordance with what we have concluded together, we are acting during this session, as well as other sessions of course. [[The speaker subsequently turned on, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70915	Or if the opposition takes the opportunity to say anything in Parliament, we might as well. So we called you here for days to explain the statements made by your spokesman who claimed that opposition parties organised and financed violence on Zagreb's streets on the first day of justified citizens' protests. You didn't respond to the Parliament, you didn't change your speaker, you didn't even fence from his statements. That means your spokesman was saying what you think. Now I ask you once again, are you still behind your spokeswoman's claims?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70916	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70917	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, from the way Milanka Opačić asks the question, it is clear that she is speaking to me as a private person, because she has called me exclusively as Jadranka Kosor, therefore not as Prime Minister, and as such she has obviously called me to Parliament. It is known who can call on the Prime Minister and members of the government to say something, to explain something. As for the spokeswoman of Mr. Pavic's government, he asked reporters about government notifications, letters, e-mails, about calls from citizens and citizens, what he said. He didn't mention anyone himself, he didn't touch any of the parties, but he did say what the facts that later proved very clearly to be true, for example. in the article "Free Dalmatia" which she wrote about the case in Dubrovnik, where the head of the forum of young SDP and of course publicly said and admitted that he paid for what he paid for. So, in conclusion, the government spokesman spoke about what were indications and what facts were based on repeated calls, letters, and e-mails. But it certainly didn't require any government investigation or any kind of trial. Each party in Croatia has the right to fight however they know and can to achieve their goals. And it is clear who is trying in Croatia, you can see the strength, come to power because we saw that the chairs were long apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70918	Thank you. Mrs Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70919	Well, I have to admit, I'm more serious than one Prime Minister, and I'm still a better answer. You are Jadranka Kosor, you are the Prime Minister, and this vanity of yours and yours the amount of haughtiness you show towards the Croatian Parliament were the same virtues of your predecessor, Ivo Sanader. Since you are his faithful disciple, I am not surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70920	It's Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelli's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70921	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's how I was one of those who kept waiting in that column in the Adriatic Square in Rijeka, and I was waiting to get that little church girl from the Rijeka Bank, and recently, data was published in the media that revealed that the coalition SDP government knew about the planned robbery of the Rijeka Bank, that Baerishe Landes Bank had been planning and conducting a financial operation for a long time, and that in the media details show that Baerish Landes Bank had therefore organized a robbery of the Rijeka Bank, and that they knew the SDP top of the SDP and also Deputy Prime Ministers Mr. Goran Granic and Mr. Slavko Linic. The investigation into an affair that then cost taxpayers about 100m euros, to this day did not shed light on those malversions in the conversion and privatisation of the bank mentioned and the role of the then vice-president of the government. Dear Mr. Bošnjakovic, I have a question, and given the changes to the Constitution, which has been voted in the meantime, and a way that the crimes of the privatisation and conversion process do not become obsolete. Has anything been done? If it is higher than all those who waited in those lines to get their money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70922	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70923	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, by amending the Constitution, we have created a certain legal normative framework, so that the crimes committed in connection with the conversion and privatisation do not go out of date. One expert working group consisting of judges of the Supreme Court, judges of county courts, respected university professors and working to draft a completely new Penal Code has been formed at the Ministry of Justice. That project is at the very end. Very soon this law will be before the Government, it will be before this Croatian Assembly and under this law we will create further normative frameworks that all those who have committed certain misdeeds of certain illegal actions in the process of conversion and privatisation so that they can be processed and reached by the hand of justice, whoever they may be. As for the Rijeka Bank itself, we for the Rijeka Bank and have some powerful verdicts and some have actually been responsible for acting with the Rijeka Bank. But the Penal Code I say is near the end, and the Penal Code will be all that the Constitution has decreed, it will further elaborate and will be here and before the Parliament very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70924	Mr. Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70925	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your reply. As is said, every crime has its own name and last name, so I hope that these acts that are from conversion will generally not only come from this case but from other cases that it will have its name and last name and answer to the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70926	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70927	I want to ask the Prime Ministers the question. Dear Madam Prime Minister, every day you are Ivo Sanader, so your predecessor portrays you as the greatest criminal in Croatia. When someone said he needed to be anchored around the Golog Island, he was Croatia's greatest enemy. But today we read "ordered Minister Ljubičić to conclude a contract with Medikol, threatened with murder, death, from Barisic receiving cash, setting up monopolies. For the frak gave 150 thousand kuna, celebrated the birthday of Malta" etc. You, Madam President, were the first from the right to Eve Sanader since 2001, for six years, you were his first deputy to sign almost everything he asked of you. Did you tell that to the inmate from Salzburg, not to tell the criminal how the media represented him, once you told Mr. Sanader, friend, comrade, cameraman, sir, Excellency, you've gone too far. You couldn't possibly have imagined where his will was going. Have you ever, have any of your ministers opposed one word while sitting at the head of that government, Ivo Sanader, of his own free will? I ask you to answer that question, what and when will the election be?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70928	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70929	... Since you mention a former prime minister under investigation, then of course the facts I know about and my colleagues can only speak where such facts are spoken. [[Speech is not enabled.]] So I'm guessing you're not imagining that you're BUSKOK, that you're the State's Attorney's office, because you, like your coalition partners, are starting to mention the naked island more and more. Therefore, in Croatia, which is a democratic state, the rule of law, in which all institutions operate as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia so it will certainly not pass, no matter how much you step into it. And your way of discrediting both me and my colleagues in HDZ and the government certainly won't go away because the facts are facts, and the facts in a specific case or in concrete cases are proven through investigations, but also ultimately in court. And I also remind you of the constitutional provisions that everyone in this country is innocent until a final court ruling is proved and it will not change in spite of all your efforts, and I believe that if you think it would be right for something to change that you will present it as your party program when you go to the elections. Well, then you may say that you will adjudicate the Constitution and that you will be judged in your courts. And as for questions about who knew what, and that would be the same if I asked you if you knew anything and if you knew about any of your family members or members of your party who did something that was not exactly in accordance with the laws. Here's Mr. Cain, so the fight against corruption goes on without restrictions on everyone, on each and every member of any party, and that's the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70930	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70931	I'm not the SCOTT, I'm not imputing anyone's guilt, nor am I in favour of any revolutionary justice, but surely the people in the Parliament couldn't know what was going on in the government, but the ministers knew in 90% of the cases that actually happened in the government, in a man who, so the media said, had 90 percent worked past the law, and only 10%, I guess, according to the law. But I want to say this, that the opportunities in this country are not only Sanader's fault, all those who have led the state in these seven, eight years are responsible, and therefore, Madam President, give the people a chance to try to save something that's well destroyed. They are responsible, I repeat again, for those who led this country. Sanader may be the most responsible, but the other gentlemen are responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70932	Thank you. In the second reporting, a representative may express his satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer, and these proposals that will happen do not fall under that. Now he's going to ask Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70933	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. On January 27, I made a written inquiry into possible illegalities in the construction of a fast road, or river bypasses. I got the answer today, so after 70 days, it's about the efficiency of this government's work. But, well, let's leave the 70-day deadline, get back to the point. The answer only confirms that the well-known thesis that almost all competitions in the Republic of Croatia agreed in the road construction process beyond the law. So in this case it was confirmed in response that one of the shares on that road St. Kuzam-Kryziste was obtained directly by a contract. The explanation is a little questionable. It was also confirmed that the excavation of the material was also used by the company, which in response is not visible, which also gave it a job to build a Bridice container terminal because if it hadn't been for it, there would have been no job either. And for the end of the most interesting thing, that this material from that road, it digs up to the container terminal, is driven through a tunnel that otherwise does not have a useful permit through which the citizens of Croatia or Rijeka can't traffic, but the trucks of the company are traffic-free. If it's not a favor to one firm, then the question is, what is it? But it is a model that has ruled Croatia for at least 7.8 years. My question is, Madam Prime Minister, are you aware that our problems with the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union lie in the fact that we are not ready to truly solve the problem of road construction corruption? You see this question of mine as my small contribution to you and your efforts to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70934	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70935	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, we got your written inquiry asking for an answer. Of course, we're swamped by work, and here we may need to be a little bit faster and faster, so I'll make sure you get a written and written answer as quickly as possible on your written request as possible. But as to the essence of the question that, Government, I believe that you know very well how it works out, of course at the level at which the Government can do it, fight corruption. In fact, we're about for example. Croatian highways, as you know, have immediately made some important changes amongst the people who run this public enterprise, but also for this company as well as for all others, decided that supervisory committees should be selected in public competitions, so that the supervisory committees do not have those who represent politics or political interests rather than that those who represent the profession, i.e. those who represent the government’s interests in the best way. So every public enterprise and Croatian highways implement their Anti-Corruption Programme. It is not true what you claim to be our problems because I do not see that there are problems in negotiations to conclude negotiations and that this would be a situation related to the fight against corruption. However, if we were to be commended somewhere in person and I as Prime Minister in contact with many colleagues and in the European Commission and recently in Strasbourg, in talks with the leaders of all parliamentary clubs, we received commendation precisely for the decisive fight against corruption that will not stop, which will absolutely go through Učka and wherever it is necessary because it is for the good of Croatian citizens and citizens. And all of our knowledge of anything that has happened in any public enterprise, including in Croatian highways, is shared by the Government with the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. with USKOK. And I have to say, in that sense, we're really delivering all the information we have or which we're being asked to do. Therefore, we will continue to be equally persistent, equally determined, and if you as a representative in the Croatian Parliament have any further information, you want to help, I suggest you contact the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70936	Thank you. Mr. Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70937	I've got a lot of information, too, but I've given up on that hand, because I could wait a few centuries for anything to be done. But let's get to the point. I believe that Croatian governments, regardless of ideological commitment, should lead, or inspiration should be the Bible or the Holy Scriptures. However, I fear that the inspiration of this government is an inexhaustible source of inspiration this book "Mc Mafia", a crime without borders, with the difference that the stories contained in this book are fairy tales compared to the Croatian reality and what HDZ did to the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70938	I warned that the second announcement of a representative may be related to the response of a member of the Government whether he is satisfied or dissatisfied with the answer. Or putting forward a proposal for clarification, etc. doesn't belong to this other part. It'd be more like the first part when you ask questions. So I ask you to be within the Rules of Procedure, because this is how we will never end up if we keep warning about what is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure. Please. And stick to it, right? He'll ask a question, Mr. Representative Milivo Schwartz, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70939	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer the question to the Minister of Administration, Mr Davorin Mlakar. Last month, Novi list, months, published an article entitled SDP, owes the entrepreneur half a million kuna. In 1997, SDP sold the building to an entrepreneur from Novi Marof, a building that later turned out to be not theirs at all. This building is used by the Municipal Committee of the SKH and in 1990 SDP registered it neatly as his property. Seven years later, a New Marof gentleman signed a contract with the SDP and bought the property for 150000 German marks. But the state launched an property-legal dispute claiming that the SDP sold not its own but state-owned assets. In 2003, the municipal court reached a verdict in favour of the state. So SDP legal follower SKH signed up for social property. In that status, he sold to a gentleman from Novi Marof, lost against the state of the dispute in 2003, and has not returned the money to the SDP. According to the New List, that's according to the '97 course. A circus of half a million kunas. Mr. Minister, will the other properties that the SDP has acquired as a legal successor of the SKH or will be stared at in the people are nevertheless meant by a certain alienation of the people's property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70940	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70941	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the question that you have asked the honourable representative is part of the rules supervised by the Ministry of Administration, and I can explain in that section that this sequence of events is clear to others. So, only '97. The Law on the Conversion of Rights, I believe, has been passed over social resources owned by former socio-political organisations. The round includes the Union of Communists of Croatia, SUBNOR, the Union of Socialist Youth and the Socialist Union of the working people of Croatia. They were users of that property that was in '97. This law is actually transformed into state property and made available to the Republic of Croatia. It was then established that the criteria under which such assets could be given further to the use of entities that had used it until then under the earlier rules would also be regulated. Since the SDP as a follower of the Croatian Communist Union was entitled to the property in some way, this right had to be reregulated after '97. For years, by passing this law. And this second part of the question where you spoke about the disputes that occurred would be a question for the State Attorney's Office to represent the Republic of Croatia in such disputes as to determine the titleholders and property users. And I believe that all other properties will also be subject to the same control since they are de facto property of the Republic of Croatia and determine whether they are necessary to carry out the activities of these entities at all or whether the owner will determine another way of using these properties. That's what I think we can answer right now. I believe that one part of this property may already be in court for resolution. But I believe that this complete answer could be given by the State Attorney's Office or possibly a new Agency for State Property Management, or by the former Office of State Administration, which deals with state property management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70942	Thank you. Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70943	Thank you for your response. I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70944	Thank you. It's time to ask Mr. Representative Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for Mrs. Prime Minister. Madam Prime Minister, 24 September 2009 a year and a half ago, before the presidential elections themselves, you are here in the House answering my question whether the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior will coordinate the lists of voters with the residence records, quote: "Yes, of course, the Ministry of Administration is doing all that can be updated in a hasty manner.", finished quote. It's been 18 months since then, so much for your rush. Since you have not fulfilled your promise that is extremely important, since the correct electoral lists do not exist until 18 months after our warning, do you feel that you should resign? That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70946	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70947	No, I don't think that I should resign, but I think that a lot of work has been done in the meantime, that the Ministry of Administration has been doing an extremely difficult job, which was based on, among other things, the economic recovery programme, where we said that we would make basic criteria for reducing and final decision to reduce, i.e. reducing the number of units of local administrations and self-government, so on reducing the number of municipalities, cities, we might see a county, so a huge job has been done that will be quite safe for Croatia's good. As for this deal about the voter lists, you know that people apply, that people log out, that there is something called fluctuation around it, and that is, of course, absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I agree that there is no need to give up in this work, or in those lists. However, I am surprised that you are asking this question when the SDP strongly opposes the satisfaction of one of our tasks, i.e. the correction of an injustice, or if you want to align absolutely with the law that requires us and the Constitutional Court, whose opinion it is, is that the number of voters in election units in the Republic of Croatia is finally harmonised. You have stopped at all defensive positions in terms of defending the situation so far, which is certainly not good, and this is the first government that has come into play with this, that the same vote will be for all, that in all election units the same number of voters, therefore it is a fair vote for MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but you do not like it, because you have obviously already prepared everything according to the current organisation of election units, and now that you do not know what it is, now you need to cut down any proposal you have never seen in advance, to prevent any shifts in your own ranks. So there are clearly double standards in the SDP, when you like something then you need to talk about it, and when you don't like it regardless of what the Constitutional Court says, asked for it Constitutional Court, proposed by the Constitutional Court, then you don't have to do it. This was the case with the Law amending the Law on Pension Insurance, where you were also not interested in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, it was so in many other cases, it was so in the case of amendments to the Labour Act, it was so in all cases where it was not liked because of its own continual interests. I'll finish. Here's what you didn't vote for, for example. Nor for, nor for, nor have you supported, yet you are fiercely opposed, and against the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, although this law is one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23, and then for closing negotiations. I can't see, I'll conclude with that, why in the SDP would it bother you to show all your assets, all your bank accounts, to bring everything out nicely in the sun, if it's in the interest of this country, and in the interest of it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70948	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70949	Thank you very much. I may observe, Madam Prime Minister, that my direct question, which is extremely important, because I've asked it twice, you promised to solve it, bypassed in a very broad port. With you now called for the latest end of the electoral units, in a very incorrect way, because the Constitutional Court adopted the report in December, in early December, and you should have known well by March 11th, at the latest not only to propose but to adopt in this House, a way to pass the bill on which it is concerned. But let me tell you one comment on this question of yours that you haven't answered. So it's perfectly clear to us in the SDP why you didn't match the voters' lists, which is why you didn't bring the residence law, so you can fake the elections, so you can fool the citizens, and steal their votes, so you can fake the election results. It's not enough that you robbed Croatia, you want to rob it and rob it... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70950	Mr. Representative, you made one direct charge. You made the accusation, and I have to warn again and again about what I keep saying, and it's probably boring for everyone, but I'm going to repeat it once more, and we're not the police, we're not the prosecution, we're not the court. That's one thing. Secondly, I think we should refrain in general from labeling around anything, and anyone. Please, let's not use the assembly room as a hearing hall, court. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70951	I'm giving the question to the Prime Minister. Madam Prime Minister, how much has the debt of the central state grown since you've managed the government? To be clear, I'm not asking about the total debt, which is then the debt of banks, companies and citizens, but just for the debt of the central state. So how much money did you owe the country for while you run the government?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70952	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I suppose Mr. Stazic is asking something about foreign debt. So clearly I'll tell you here in March 2011. The Republic of Croatia issued a 10-year bond, a euro bond of $1 and a half billion in total, with a total of 6.375% and a contribution of 6.61% reaching March 24th 2021. For the comparison here, I prepared on March 14th we paid the euro due to a bond issued in 2001 amounting to a capital of 750m euros, for which the contribution on the day of maturity was 6.90%. So I suggest you compare it. So, at the end of December 2010, foreign debt was 45.8 billion euros, representing a level of 90.7% of GDP, which is significantly below the EU average of 200% of GDP. For example. Hungary 145.5, Slovenia 113.8, Bulgaria 107.6, Greece 180%, Ireland 1000% of GDP, etc., etc. Therefore, according to preliminary data for 2010, the same public debt was moving at 41.2% of GDP, which is comparable to Slovenia or the Czech Republic, and is significantly lower than the EU average of around 80% of GDP. Here, that's some of the data. I believe you'll find it useful. However, what I would like to add is that here is the last transaction in which Minister Dalic also participated almost 300 investors of funds, banks, insurance companies, mostly from the US and Asia, and that this points to the high trust and interest of investors for Croatian Eurobonds, i.e. for Croatian bonds. The fact is that all this was happening at a time of great problems in North Africa, so at a time when these kinds of political and any other economic disturbances, but also earthquakes, or tsunamis in Japan. So the fact was very clear that Croatia is perceived as a stable and secure country in economic and political terms. So, every point that is important for what we want to do, and it is economically stabilised in full sense and bring the country out of crisis, end negotiations and become 28 EU members who will certainly be economically strong. I am curious, however, how Mr. Stazic has the courage to ask anything about finance when we know that he and his friends and family were taking vacations according to the 7 kuna model on Brijuni for 2 months. That's something the public is still waiting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70954	Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70955	Madam Prime Minister, I've put mine in Croatian, not in English, and I'm surprised you didn't understand that question. I asked you a question about the debt of the central state, not the foreign state, not the total debt and not the tsunami in Japan. When you took over in 2009, the prime minister's debt was 101.3 billion kuna. And according to HGK data, it today amounts to 136.3 billion kuna. Which means he's grown 35 billion kuna. As a austerity measure, you forbade ministers to drink aromatized water, so now they can only drink ordinary water here in the Parliament, so I suppose it costs six kunas in the government as well. In order to compensate for the debt created by the ministers, we would need to reduce consumption by 5 billion and 333 million and 333 vials and your plain unaromatized water.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70956	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70957	But, as citizens are not shepherds, which you would like them to be, nor ministers are camels to drink so much water. Madam Prime Minister, the sand of all hexedres, the water ran out of all the watches, is past time - call the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70958	Thank you. You'd be surprised how much water the human organism has. So it's an important item and let's not underestimate it, it's a very important thing, right, and we're making fun of it. Thank you very much. He'll ask you a question, Mr. Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70959	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the president of the HDZ, former Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, former vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, former HDZ President of the City of Zagreb and formerest associate and friend of Mr Ivo Sanader, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. And that is: do you know how many workers in Croatia work and do not receive wages?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70960	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70961	Mr. President, here I think this, this is my petty little legal remark if you please, I think this list of all the jobs I've been doing, but you haven't listed everything, you've come to maybe one-third, not in line with Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Because as far as I know, as far as I understand in the Rules of Procedure, here government members can be asked questions as members of the Government and only as members of the Government, and then also to the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, unless they're worth some special rules if you're the Prime Minister. Therefore, only a question can be asked from the work of that member of the government, a member of the government or a Prime Minister. But certainly it is, Mr. Representative, I will answer you even though you did not seriously ask the question I will answer you very seriously. So, the government is working together, and I am proud to point out with representatives and unions and employers to solve the issue of all those people who work and do not get paid. This is totally inadmissible for us, this is a problem that has been here for many years, and no one has actually solved it in a special way and has been affected by the solution to this problem because all three partners need to agree to this problem. So, both employers and unions and government. Now we really have a good atmosphere so we can do it and, as you know, we have committed ourselves to proposing by the 20th of this month the models in which this problem will be solved. The data is different, the data is different, so if they're spoken by those who work, whether they're unions, employers, etc. We will, I'm sure, come up with quite precise results, but here's when you speak for example. We have a fact about indivisibility that we have more than 20,000 entities in which no employee who ingests huge liquidity means huge debt, so here we are fighting this problem. I believe that you know and I believe that you will be commending the governments for paying off debts to the state of those economies, or those companies that have difficulties that have arisen from the global crisis, but which have successfully begun to meet their obligations at the beginning of this year, means tax obligations above all, so we have passed a special regulation to enable them to have a flat-rate payment, and that is one of the models through which we seek to help the economy, those who continue to struggle and fight for every job, but also for the growth of the economy and new employment. And here's a question that hasn't been published yet, but I believe you'll let me have it on today, so this morning I got, so by the end of this week, the number of unemployed at the Employment Service is down by 6 thousand 281 people, and that's even 43.3%, so the number of persons employed in March is 43.3% of the number of employees in February, and 28.7% higher than the number of employees in March 2010. So slowly but surely, with all our efforts we can achieve the first goal ahead of us, which is to strengthen the economy and reduce the number of unemployed. This is achieved not by making a decision in an office, but by working hard, by all taking the burden of responsibility, and by all having what degree of courage more. I am very optimistic even after yesterday's meeting in Dubrovnik Ron Brown, therefore, after the arrival of a large number of potential investors who are interested in Croatia and who say that we have done a great job in reducing investment barriers, but also in the fight against corruption, and this potential is growing from day to day and I am sure that you will welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70962	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70963	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not happy with the responsibility, and I didn't get the number I asked. I've listed your functions to point out that I'm not asking a private person question, although most private individuals would give me a direct answer if it were 70 grand. Also, the number of unemployed since you became prime minister has increased by 100,000, the number of those who don't get paid by 20 grand. And I'm also going to publish one of the figures that's public, so the census will end on 15.4. So those who are deleted from the stock market will be restored to the stock market, so that number won't be what you said it would be. As for the measures you mentioned to address this problem of non-payment of salaries, I would like to remind you that the SDP has proposed a law that would make non-payments a criminal offence, then you rejected it because it is unnecessary for you, and now you have decided to rewrite our solution as well as some other solutions. I invite you not to copy anymore but to sign something. So if you could sign everything that Ivo Sanader asked you to sign, you could sign what your citizens are asking for, and that's resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70964	I would like to warn you of Article 180(5), which I will now quote: "The representative may express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary question, by giving reasons for up to one minute", which is not what anyone suggested. I will also accept you that it is unnecessary here to list what functions or duties he has in the past, because if we went to absurd we could all be called former primary school students or high school students or, say, Perica Bukic former water polo representative and so forth, which would be mostly absurd, as well as a list of titles etc. Let's move on to questions. Mr Furio Radin will ask the following question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70965	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize in advance for asking one question that is neither against the government nor against the opposition, but simply aimed at solving one problem, big for us but perhaps small for some others. I'm making him Dr. Radovan Fuchs Minister of Education. The primary function of schools of national minorities and education in the first and second languages of members of national minorities, all other preservation of national identity, protection of minority rights, respect for multicultural history of a particular territory stems from this first individual human right of a young individual of a particular national minority, so that his education can take place in the native language. Like for Croatians that language is Croatian, for example Talia, that language is Italian. If that's clear, it'll be easy to resolve the question I'm going to ask and which one of your ministries has been working on for a while. And I must also commend your ministry and Mr. Zelemir Janjic with whom we are working very well, but that has not been solved yet. In agreement with your ministry before you became minister a few years ago, we found that the Italian language would be an integral subject of the state's graduation. So while in schools in the Croatian language, Croatian language, mathematics and English language plus one university subject, if it is in the interest of students to enroll in the university were subject of state education, so in schools in Italian the subjects were Italian language, Croatian language and by choice foreign language or mathematics. The problem is that colleges recognise the classes of state graduate schools in Croatian, do not value Italian language and whether they want to enroll students of schools in Italian must ultimately place 4 items. Many continue to study at Italian universities, however, which recognise, of course, the methodology of the country from which the candidates for enrolment originate in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70966	Ask a question, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70967	A list recognised by Croatian universities, so that in this case four cases or differential exams are needed. And I'm done. Mr. Minister, schools in Italian are as good as schools in Croatian. State graduation is nothing more than a final test of high school knowledge and a willingness to enrol in college, and that's why I think an increased knowledge check in such schools, I'm going to repeat four courses instead of three is unnecessary and illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70968	Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70969	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you said that I would not say too many problems for a long time, and I am convinced that we will, of course, find additional elements of the improvement and solution of this part of the state's graduation. I think we heard only praises for last year's state graduation, and I am convinced that this will be the case this year, and she is also one of the key elements for enrolment in the higher education system in the Republic of Croatia for which neither the students nor their parents had a single observation last year, and I am sure it will be this year. When we talk about what you have just stated, it is true that the system of state graduation protects the fundamental right of Croatian citizens of national minorities to put their mother tongue next to Croatia and choose between mathematics or foreign language, unlike all other Croatian citizens and members of the Czech national minority who, on their request, wanted to choose their own according to which system they would take. Therefore, all other students in Croatia are subject to the mandatory subject of Croatian, mathematics and foreign language. Electoral subjects are those who may be looking for individual colleges or study programmes as one of the criteria for enrollment in such a specific study programme where the same college or the same study programmes from one university can differ at another university, i.e. it belongs to the autonomy of the higher education system or the autonomy of the university. So we have Zagreb looking for two or three electoral courses on some study programme, unlike the same university in Osijek or Split, which is only enough for a basic, mandatory part of the state's graduation. Therefore, if a member of the let’s say Italian national minorities, of course absolutely agree that schools are absolutely equal in quality, he wants to enroll a college that does not have an essential part in its study program regarding mathematics, I’m sure he’ll have no problem. However, if they go to some technical colleges, they can ask that one of the essential features is, say, the passing of mathematics. In that case, such a student has the ability to choose and take the necessary part of mathematics instead of foreign language, he practically took two native languages to say, so Croatian and Italian, that's one thing. And secondly, I don't see that there's too much of a problem with some discrimination in terms of laying an increased volume of cases because when we talk about chemistry, biology, physics or some other subjects that require some study programs, it's exactly the same for members of the Croatian people or students. Now as for enrolment at possibly Italian universities, then I think it should be quite clear that such a student can bring a confirmation in which it will be said that what the Croatian state is looking for as a knowledge check is a mandatory part of the graduation, which are these three subjects. The rest of the electoral items are subject only to what individual universities have expressed as a prerequisite for enrolment. So you can't drag a parallel to Italian universities with one of the Croatian universities. What is to go with is to lay down the mandatory part and these are the three items that are agreed upon. But as we improve the state graduation system every year, I think there's still room to talk about it, so let's find the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70970	Thank you. Mr Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70971	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. So in their own time, the same question was raised by Slovenia, identically, where they solved it very simply. What is in schools in Slovenian, in Italian schools is Italian, so the advantage is native language, everyone has three items. It has the same meaning, so it's native language, and it's the same thing when it goes to college. This would also be a solution in Croatia because in this way we would all be equal, all would have three items plus one or more electoral items. That's, of course, the solution I'm proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70972	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70973	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister. In recent times, various opposition-led activities have failed to destabilise the government, and have not succeeded in provoking extraordinary elections, as much as you and the Government have recently achieved increasing results in the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, especially in the area of economic, labour and social areas, and you are very good at bringing the end of the negotiations on Croatia's entry into the European Union. You are close to the goal of achieving another historic success with you, if we remember the contribution to the creation of the state, then joining NATO, here we are now entering the membership of the European Union. My question would be, since it is generally known that certain opposition parties are increasingly important activities and efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have obstructed, we will only remember some such as the Agreement with Slovenia on Deblocking the negotiations, so let's remember the incentives for shipbuilding, and they were against Croatia's entry into NATO, so against the Law of Conflict of Interest, and when we began to deal with corruption, they then sought the removal of a state lawyer. How much such obstructions have damaged Croatia, but especially its citizens and how much such obstructions have made it difficult for the government and your activities in achieving Croatian goals. And another question only if you can comment on the recent SDP president, Mr Milanovic, said this was the first time that in 11 years, there is no known date for the election. Well, I'd just like to remind you when that election date was announced by the SDP headed by the late Ivica Racan when they were in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70974	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70975	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, of course it is always much better when it is trying to do or finish a big job, such as negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. But also the coming out of the crisis, it's always better when there's a minimum agreement on what strategic interests are for the state. So, what is important for Croatia regardless of who was in power. What is important for the future of our children is certainly that the conclusion of the negotiations is one of such historical goals, strategic goals especially in the year when we will mark here with great pride and I believe that this will indeed be a series of important extremely impressive events for memory. So, the 20th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Croatia. These are the years, these are moments which in every nation there are special feelings, so pride, community, responsibility and it would be very good if we were more in Croatia around such important dates, strategic interests together. However, this is not the case. You said it was a fact, a fact. I just want to talk about facts. In no sentence, not a word of politicizing that here we are daily faced with the fact that I already talked about it today, for example, for chapter 23, the ruling coalition is alone. So, of course, it's enough for us to be the ruling coalition, so that we can vote all that out. But for example, if one vote was missing, we could not, for example, pass the Law on Police in Parliament, we could not pass the Law on preventing conflicts of interest, and these are the criteria for closing chapters. However, the fact is also very clear that the Commission has said what is logical from the moment we finish negotiations until the moment we sign the accession agreement we must, for example, the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest as a result and bring all the laws to life. So they have to start living, they have to become our reality, which means that we have to name this commission, that the commission has to work and that it has to have first results. Of course, demands for the commission to be decided by two-thirds of the vote in parliament would mean blockades. And the blockade would mean no signing of an access contract because we're still going to be watching what's logical and watching because we have to keep working. And that's why it's an example that might well illustrate what I'm talking about. It's important because if we didn't live through the law, then we wouldn't sign an access contract. The demands on the other side of the election immediately, here we hear today's elections immediately in June. I have to say one more time here. Everyone who understands something knows something, who participated in any way in the negotiations knows I'm telling the truth, and that's calling the election right now means there's no end to the negotiations. Why? Because the technical government is that, as technically government as much as you laugh at it as you do, and it was funny for you both around the shipyard and everything else, the technical government can't make decisions about chapter 33. He can't. This can only be made by the Government with full support in Parliament, because it cannot make any decisions related to financial effects, financial implications, or financial consequences. When I mentioned shipyards, Mr. Representative, here's the same thing for the negotiations. Of course, while we were working on the one hand, we tried every second to bring in the better, to prepare the restructuring programme, to work with the Commission until there were representatives in this case here at SDP because it was also a question at the last current afternoon when MP Jurjevic said that I was misleading the public around the shipyard in Split, and, behold, the boatyard had a positive view of the restructuring plan. It is therefore a matter of life for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly, it is always good to discuss strategic issues when talking to our partners in the European Commission, the European Union, with colleagues of the European Union countries that we are all talking about strategic issues the same, to show equal enthusiasm, equal will, equal flight and equal interest in Croatia's future. I must say that in all contacts with my colleagues, so also with opposition representatives and prime ministers, I always get that impression everywhere. I've been to Israel recently. So talks both within the government and with opposition leaders on strategic issues are absolutely the same, positive for the good of their country. And that's what I want, Mr. Representative, one day for our Croatia. So this year, as we have announced very clearly, parliamentary elections will be by the end of 2011, at the end of June as we announced, we will say when it will be, and in 2003, as you know, Ivica Racan announced that date only two months before the election. So, of course the question is, time, yes, that time is a problem when you don't want to hear the truth. So that's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70976	Thank you very much. It's been a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70977	Thank you very much. So I'm satisfied with the answer and the fact is that the opposition is very nervous when it hears the results that the government achieves what is normal. But the opposition is obviously the only goal of coming to power and not choosing the means to do so. They deceive citizens with their healing abilities, and Croatian citizens are still treating wounds since they were in power, when in principle they were undertakers of labour and social rights. And I have one more thing to say, and that is, the longer the negative energy is certainly one reason, and the recent publication of this even publicly, that in the measure of radiation in front of the SDP is almost twice as much radiation as in front of the Croatian democratic community. That's why citizens should be warned to keep lbler's square safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70978	The question will be asked by Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70979	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Kosor, as your predecessor would say long time no see, you've been happy to come and go to the Parliament everywhere, so now that you're here, answer me what it's been like to move the purchasing power of citizens since you've been in charge of the government. Did the cost of living in Croatia rise or decrease?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70980	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, I mean you should compare Mr. President anyway and the cost of living in some past days, but let's concentrate on this today. Certainly, the moment I took the lead with my colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was extremely difficult. It was a time of severe crisis, so that came from the world to our door, and with that crisis we fought in all ways. In 2009, as you know, we've done three budget rebalances, reduced expenditures by almost a billion euros, then reduced salaries to government and public service employees, because it was absolutely in agreement with them, the only way to stabilise finances. Unfortunately, a crisis tax was introduced, and we have increased the VAT rate, and these are facts that I am not ashamed to say because they were necessary, so that we can pay for example pensions, and so that we can pay for the socially endangered things that belong to them. However, further rationalization, we actually reduced the needs for the expenditure side of the budget almost by about 3 billion kuna last year, so we went further rationalisation, but last year we also, as you know, abolished the crisis tax on July 1st, and then the second rate. I want to say once again the fact that few people want to hear, which is that even when we introduced a tax crisis that we freed about 900 thousand pensioners, and about 600 thousand employees paying that tax. However, last year we also changed the income tax system and allowed about a million and a half people in Croatia to have higher incomes, and these are ladies and gentlemen facts. The fact that something has moved is also said that exports have increased by more than 18% in the past year, that in the first months of this year, around 4% is still growing, but what is important in the last 8 months is growth and consumption, so consumption of citizens, which means that it is still going towards that goal that the government has set before it. This is one of the indicators, it is quite certain that the major investment projects we have launched must lead to what is particularly important for the government, but I believe also for members and members of the opposition parties, which is the creation of new jobs. As you can see, the trend of reducing the number of unemployed has begun, I'm sure, and I have to say that there are no censusors included in that number, so in that number six and a few thousand smaller ones are not listed, as someone just recently wanted to insinuate from the opposition. Although when and if one part of them is removed from that list of unemployed, then he will be in further decline. I would also like to point out that last year has been extremely good as a tourist year, where we have had the growth of nights, but certainly the growth of arrivals, that we have made great efforts to make this year's season even better, and I am sure that, with our preparations, investment in information, investment in promotion, investment in new capacities, and also through some investment cycles, the number of arrivals in this year and night can be greater, by way of taking account of the opportunities in countries that we have in some way competition. When you compare all this data with some European Union countries, where unemployment continues to grow, where they continue to struggle with the crisis, although sometimes Croatian media say that it is not so, that they have all come out of the crisis, it is not, it is not a fact. Therefore, I am sure that we are going towards making it really better in Croatia and in 2011, which means that both our citizens and our citizens will live better. We will certainly do everything to support and, in particular, those who are the most sensitive groups, and here I remind you that despite all the difficulties, this government has not reduced, for example. Neither the allowance, nor the birth benefits, is the amount of 4 billion kuna, unlike your Government, Mrs. Marinović Anticevic, who first cut off, cut off the smallest, weakest, most sensitive, and these are young families and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70981	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70982	Mrs. Kosor, whatever you have done, after taking such measures, Croatia was even worse. So if Croatia is convicted of being saved by you and HDZ, then indeed the citizens need to pass the will to be saved at all. Your support has fallen to the lowest level, your citizens are on the streets, they're looking for your resignation, and you're the only one who doesn't seem to realize that everything is going down except for your further collapse. Your stay in power is pure cowardice, so show some courage and call the election, immediately, when the Pope comes. Mrs. Kosor, the electronic subito, is coming... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70983	It's a matter of consideration. Let's move on. Mrs. Biljana Borzan will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70984	I refer my question to Mrs. Prime Minister. No PCT device has ever been purchased in Croatian clinical hospitals, although the directors have requested it, HZZO has never approved such purchases. Instead of obtaining such devices, the Croatian government has decided to help me to say, under quotes, a private privateer, and in the last 3 years, as many as 231 million kunas have been paid to the private clinic Medikol. I'll point out that HZZO owes it to the same private polyclinic another 40 million kuna. As we know that such a device costs 20 million kunas, it is clear that 13 of these devices can be purchased for this money that has been paid. The owner of this private clinic is a certain Mr. Rajkovic, who owned a restaurant where HDZ's elite gathered. When the restaurant collapsed, he went into a new business, with HDZ, so that same elite helped him to achieve a monopoly in one part of the health service. So far, it has proved clear in Croatia that, as in other countries, we have protected animals and plants, and now HDZ shows there are also protected individuals who treat with special attention. So far, HDZ ministers and directors of public companies have shown that it is possible to steal from Croatian citizens on electricity, on paint for tunnels, on bank fees, and now on sick people. So it's not just, "just" under quotes, it's now criminally morbid. So I ask you, Mrs Kosor, is there an end to this abduction from Croatian citizens and when will you ever stop pleasing individuals?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70985	Answer, Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70986	Mr. President, I, nor do my members of the government please individuals, we have not been granted and we do not bid and we will not favor any individual. And what's said is, of course, a pure lie. The signing and conclusion of a contract with private people began at the time of the SDP government and that is a fact. And the second is that this government, this government, so the ones we're sitting here, we've made a decision and we're conducting it on an investment of 800 million kuna in the purchase of new equipment. And that's also a fact. As far as these PET CT devices are concerned, none of the hospitals have so far requested their procurement, meaning the purchase of that equipment. And that's also a fact. As for the restaurant and who was meeting at which restaurant, I don't have time for restaurants or lunches, especially since I'm busy, doing my job, so then Mrs. Representatives obviously that you were in that restaurant when you have such detailed information, so if you have any more information, and you deliver to those in charge of the investigation. This is not an investigative body, Parliament is not an investigative body, nor is the government conducting investigations. The investigations are conducted by the State's Attorney's Office, investigations are carried out by the SCIENT, so if you have any information on civil duty, not only as agents, let them know. Finally, neither this owner nor anything else was affected by this government, but we are the government that launched a fierce fight against corruption, and it will lead to everyone whether it is a crime with HEP housing, or for example. about the crime related to the procurement of some in city pharmacies, i.e. the town pharmacy in the City of Zagreb. It's none of our business, let the fight go to everyone and everyone, whether they're members of the SDP or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70987	Thank you. Mrs. Borzan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70988	Madam Prime Minister, your answer is such that you are persistently acting as if you have just now come to a position in the government, and you have very much responsibility because you have also been part of everything as Deputy Prime Minister. I will only tell you that not only radiologists but also other specialists have long pointed out that your government's policies towards health care, i.e. the convenience of privates, have been destroying public health. It is not a problem for private citizens to appear on the market, but if it interferes with the functioning of public health that serves to provide health care to every person regardless of the property, it is unacceptable. The public private partnership model HDZ has turned public money into putting it in private pockets. The only cure for this situation is the government's resignation and new elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70989	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70990	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers. Here, this question I intend to ask these days has been updated during Mr. Cacic's stay in Dubrovnik. He said one of the worst threats to the Dubrovnik people, and that is, if he comes to power by chance, there will be no highway to Dubrovnik. I have to tell you that a lot of citizens stopped me and they put me in charge and told him to get the money back from the retirement home in Dubrovnik first because there was a bunch of bricks left in the middle of town so let him talk about not building a highway. Let me remind you, in the 1990s, a contract was signed on the construction of a retirement home in Dubrovnik with a final value of 192 million dinars from KONING, and 58 million dinars were to be spent in advance of 134 million. Due to military operations in the city of Dubrovnik, the work was suspended in '91. the year after which part of this amount of advance in the amount of 134 million dinars took over CONING HOLDING otherwise legal follower of Cačić's DP CONING and placed it in the form of short-term loans to Zagorje LLD. and Zagorje d.d. Croatian Retired Union – Dubrovnik branch reported Mr. Cacic for abuse of power in economic business in 2002, but was forced to reject this because of an age-old criminal prosecution. Perhaps Minister Kalmeta thought I was asking him a question, but the question is to Minister Bosnjakovic and it is said: Mr Minister, since our proposal has been amended by the Constitution so that the crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation do not go out of date whether a re-application will be filed and whether an investigation into malfeasance in connection with the construction of the House of Retired People in Dubrovnik will be renewed?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70991	Thank you. Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70992	Thank you very much. Of course, the new legislation that we are building, of course, that the amendments to the Constitution allow everyone, all the bodies of the Republic of Croatia and the Police and the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK to do in those criminal acts that are potentially out of date, which relate to the conversion and privatisation that they will be able to act. If someone has stolen the pensioners, then the fact is that it is the head of any parliamentary party that should be answered if the facts that you have said here are correct. If these facts are correct, there are, of course, national authorities that will determine in the procedure laid down in the law the accuracy of such facts as are mentioned here. The new Penal Code that is being prepared really regulates these issues will provide answers regarding conversion and privatisation. However, what is important is to maintain continuity. Because we and so far have certain crimes based on which certain actions in conversion are sanctioned. In the new criminal legislation, it will be necessary to preserve this continuity and, within that continuity, to build on future practices so that some people do not actually call for limitation and that the loss of continuity of some would not actually be sanctioned. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70993	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70994	Well, I heard you, Mr. Minister, and in answer to one of the previous questions, and I understand what you're going to do. However, war profits, as far as I know, are not out of date and I believe there is room for action before that expert group of yours does this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70995	Thank you. He'll ask a question, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70996	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask my question to the finance minister. Dear Minister Dalic, I am asked almost daily by pensioners who use pensions from the second pillar of more than a thousand of them, what have they done in their lives to punish them so? First, they had to retire sooner than they planned, so investment in the second pillar proved completely invaluable. Secondly, they do not exercise the right to add to the pension for years only the first pillar of generation solidarity of the proposal of the HNS and HSU Representatives Club, and the government has not given its proposal. Third, which is important to my question, they pay pension tax even though she's small. In fact, although the untaxed basis of the pension in Croatia is 3 thousand 200 kn, it is not in practice at all. Our citizens, although their total pension does not exceed the amount of the non-taxable amount each month, pay 12% of the pension tax they receive from the second pillar and thus suffer damages. This means that a pensioner with a thousand and 700 kn pensions from the first pillar and an average pension of 106 kn from the second pillar of each month credits to the State with more than 11 kn and 130 kn per year, respectively. All this is happening because there is no will for people to calculate the total pension, but for the Croatian Pension Insurance Office only accounts for its own, and for Raiffeisen, the pension insurance company is regularly calculating and suspending taxes. I ask you as a finance minister who has a discretionary right to postpone the tax to which you decide, if it is okay for pensioners who do not have to be taxed by law to still pay taxes, to credit the state budget, and if they can get their money back only on the basis of a tax return claim or an annual application that is too often more expensive than the amount of money themselves. Or in other words, do you consider as finance minister that this country should always borrow the poorest, while it is quite common that tycoons do not pay their workers pension insurance and therefore bear no consequences?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70997	Thank you. Ms. Minister Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70998	With respect to pension tax, pensions are known not to be taxed less than 3 thousand 200 kn, pensions that are more than 3 thousand 200 kn are taxed in accordance with the Income Tax Act. And whether these pensions will also be taxed depends on where the pensioner lives, whether he has the status of disabled or whether he is a member of the family of the deceased defender of the Homeland War. In all, the weight of the tax burden on pensions is best shown by the fact that in the month of March, more than 2 billion kunas were paid for peace, while the total tax on income was just slightly more than 26 million kunas, so less than 1%, which would indicate that the effective tax burden of pensions, which as I said only applies to pensions of more than 3 thousand 200 kn and again in part of the cases is less than 1%. As regards pensions paid from the second stage, it is clear that the tax burden of the second pillar as well as the third pillar pension depends on the tax burden of the payment, either in the second or in the third pillar. No one in Croatia or the finance minister can apply Croatian laws in a discretionary manner, and the Croatian tax system is based on the principle that every income tax must be paid at least one time. Therefore, if, at the time of payment of pension insurance, that payment was made out of non-taxable income, non-taxed income, then income tax will be paid at the retirement stage and vice versa. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that income taxation issues, the issue of taxing pensions are implemented in accordance with Croatian legislation, which is also in line with EU and Nin rules which cannot and cannot be implemented discreetly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u70999	Thank you. Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71000	Dear Minister, there is no difference in the status of pension from the first pillar and pension from the second pillar because both are secondary payers of income. Mirovina from the second pillar is the same as the pension from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, income from non-permanent work. So the dilemma is not that these tax payers should not pay by tax regulations. The problem is somewhere else and the problem is resolved in 48 hours, which is that Raiffeisen pension insurance company has no insight into the tax cards of the people it pays. You can freely license a man from the Raiffeisen fashion to have insight into tax cards and within 48 hours you can solve this problem. This problem must be solved because this problem is insignificant to the state, because it is 130 thousand kuna per year at the country level, but the great burden and the great price, or such a small amount, is so insulting to the human dignity that it must pay 12% of the tax on the second pillar on average. Thank you very much. I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71001	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71002	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected Prime Minister. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. In fact, the government announced it would allow employment in state-owned enterprises due to the investment cycle. Earlier, however, the contradiction said that the cycle would be achieved through private funding. What is crucial is that in the SDP, we do not want to believe that this is how we want to reduce record unemployment in the last 8 years, by hiring state-owned enterprises. The question for you is how many jobs have been opened past state-owned enterprises in the last year and a half since you've been Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71003	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71004	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, here you remember that on one current morning I wished you success in the elections for the Zagreb SDP, this is what you did and I see that you are very active in Zagreb. In the context of this response, I will point out to you that as regards employment in public enterprises, we have made a decision, but I believe that you have read entirely, meaning those who do well and those involved in investment cycles, means those involved in the implementation of one part of our major investment projects that we want to strengthen the economy and which we want to achieve the creation of new jobs. I spoke about the trend at the Employment Office earlier, so I am not going to repeat these data now, but they show that employment is higher both in February and in the same period last year and significantly higher. I'm going to answer your question, so I'm going to bring it up for example. Last year 2010, which employs about 147 000 people, which is 20% more than in the year before, means than in 2009, which absolutely shows trends. So for opening jobs, it's not in this classic socialist or if you want the Communist sense of government. The government must create conditions, create legal frameworks and every other framework, break down obstacles, fight corruption along with all other bodies, and then create a favourable atmosphere for investment, for job creation and for new employment, which we all want. So, of course, we'll try at that job. And it's absolutely false and it's actually funny, so I'd say that we're the employment decision in some public enterprises, I repeat on investment projects and those who did good business last year, HEP did a good job, for example. so that we wouldn't let them hire some of the experts who will work on these projects, but they'll all monitor it as you know the supervisory committees we appointed based on the contest. By contrast, Mr. Representative, although you have announced in Zagreb for holding, for example, a total. and for the gas station, etc., that you will choose non-partisan, this is what Mr. Covic announced, the choice of non-party and professional persons for branch heads, e.g. Gas station. We have information that a member of the SDP has been appointed as the new director, that only members of SDP and HNS have been appointed to the City Gasbanks Supervisory Board, that representatives are naturally abandoned and resolved, for example. HDZ which would make sense. So far the practice has been in such institutions, of course schools, kindergartens, etc. to name others and non-partisan, but let us remember that the government's practice of 2000 is repeated, so that everything that is not SDP is moved and brought to its people. I've got this whole list of people who are here busy. At a session, for example. The city halls you appointed as the new Administrative Council of the Pučko Open University exclusively SDP and HNS, but the imaginary jobs for some people have also been opened. So that's the information we have, so we're going to forward it anyway. But also in preparation, I hear Mr Bernardic's establishment of a call center in Holding so that we can hire similar and count on how many information I have about 50 people in the call center who would be employed to naturally promote what, that's a rewarding question. Here you are the president of the Zagreb Holding Chamber of Commerce, so it would be good for you to explain some of that to the public because that steam we recently heard "all of you to work, work for all" is actually translated "all of you to work, work for SDP".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71005	Thank you. Mr. Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71006	I can't be happy with the answer until the end since you've focused... /The noise in the hall./... Because you've focused on things that aren't your job. But what I can tell you is something you mentioned and it's about HEP. So, you yourself said that HEP needs a new investment cycle, and at the same time you've decided that the dividend of state-owned companies that book profits does not mean that they have the liquidity to pay the profits, to pay the state budget, and HEP has to pay more than 400 million kunas that are not available. At the same time as the investment cycle, i.e. hiring you with money from state-owned companies, the state budget is bathed. So that's something that's also a contradiction in your answer itself. But what I must remind myself of is that the net unemployment effect in the last year and a half, or loss of jobs, is less than the new jobs of 150 thousand workers. 150 thousand people are out of work, 150 thousand people are more than the entire Carlovia County of people who have lost their jobs, it's more than the Koprivnica-Krysjevac County of people who have lost their jobs, it's more than the Zadar County of people who have lost their jobs and more than that, two or three members of their families. These are the results of the Economic Recovery Programme. After a year and a half, it can be said with certainty that the recovery failed and that is why Croatia needs a new government, and Croatian citizens have a new hope that Croatia could become a more normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71007	Thank you very much. Little did we all allow ourselves to exceed the time of question and answer. Please, let's just stick with it. I thought when the gentleman said he wasn't quite satisfied, that's exactly what the Rules of Procedure said, that he could express satisfaction or dissatisfaction. So he's still partially satisfied. Mrs. Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71008	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Mr Minister. Here I am today moved by listening to these hypocritical statements of opposition, but also their double standards just to ask a question like this. What's the matter, Mr. Secretary Drinker? I'll ask you. It is, in effect, a former minister of thanks to God of the former coalition government from 2000 to 2003 who has used himself abundantly in his ministerial mandate and has concluded 132 million-dollar jobs. But the question isn't about that, the question is recently about him on the radio, the TV bush, the bush, the bush, we'll fight, we'll come to the workers, the wages don't pay, and what happens? It's his 17 companies he's interested in, not paper, but they're his, he passed on, they don't pay their workers. There's 1,000 workers in the game who don't get paid, and he's hypocritically lying to people in the eyes and saying he's going to fight it. He'll fight for something else, it's true. Mr. Minister, nice please, what you will do with other workers who use these tycoons at slave level hold them, do not pay them their wages. They may speak to each other in their SDP coalition like this, but people, Croats and workers need to understand that this government led by Mrs. Kosor has done a lot, and I'm asking you what you're going to do about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71009	Minister Poppie, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71010	Thank you very much, Madam Representative, Mr. President. Of course, any economic activity based on compliance with its obligations, either according to national obligations, therefore taxes and contributions, either according to obligations towards suppliers or which is the worst obligation towards workers, are not actually entrepreneurs. And such a way of working, such an economy is not even allowed, and of course such a model is not even sustainable. We heard earlier from the opposition benches that they proposed the law, it seems to me that's what was said to prosecute those who wouldn't pay their wages. I don't know if they've actually consulted their coalition partners, because if they were, they'd probably realize that maybe the first person should come by that law and their turn. However, the Croatian government, as Madam President has on several occasions already responded and said. So he works intensively thanks to such non-entrepreneurs for solving this burning problem. So, the question of protection of creditors and the issue of default, long-term payouts paid to workers. Every honest and real and successful businessman keeps human resources, in fact, crucial to the success of companies. And of course most Croatian entrepreneurs and businessmen are honest, good and they fight for their workers and in difficulty are the last ones who actually come in line either by taking care or by any other way. However, we certainly see long - term payouts, and you state examples are not allowed. This is not entrepreneurship, and together with our social partners, we will soon find a way and a solution to sanction and to actually throw such entrepreneurs out of the world of entrepreneurship, because not only do they harm and do great injustice to their workers, but also to their colleagues, respected orderly entrepreneurs by making them so unfair competition. There's so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71011	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71012	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with your answer, and I believe these workers are pleased. Of course, I'm sure you know who it's about. It's about Koning, his 17 firms, Mr. Cacic here, and that's what's sad. But it's not, it's a coalition that's like that. She can look into people's eyes, lie to them without a problem, issue Croatian rights. So here's the 20th anniversary they'll hardly celebrate with us because they're followers of a party that ran out of this House regardless when it came to independence. And here in BiH we see what the Croats think of the SDP and their way of ruling. There will be none in them, so it will wait for us, unfortunately, if they prepare for any authority. But you won't get it because the Croats have a long memory thank God and it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71013	Thank you. Excuse me just one little announcement. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Petar Selem, called a meeting today at 13:30 in the Chamber of Janko Draskovic, 202. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71014	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. I ask my question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Popioc. Today, ministers, when we are all struggling to help Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen, there are two counties in Croatia that have not signed the Cooperation Agreement with your ministry and business banks, and therefore the businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen in these two counties pay two percent more interest. It is, of course, Sisak-Moslavina and Primorje-Gorski County. But these two counties are bound by other ties, and one of these relationships is that both counties are doing refineries. So there is an INA refinery in Sisak and INA Refinery in Rijeka. Our citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County have been shocked these days by the information we have received, which is that 4 times more money has been invested in the modernisation of the INA-refinery in Rijeka than in the modernisation of the INA-refinery in Sisak. Of course, every honest and honest well-intentioned citizen strives to modernise both refineries and that is not disputed. But I'm interested in Mr. Minister who decided that the citizens of the city of Sisak should be citizens of the second order? Under whose political patronate, such decisions were made to make then, so the majority state-owned company INA is one mother to those in Rijeka and to those in Sisak Stepmoy. And do you have information when planning to continue the modernisation of the INA of the refinery in Sisak, that second phase... Plants that are extremely important to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71015	Thank you. Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71016	Thank you, Mr. President. So, distinguished MPs first just a brief comment on what you first concluded, so related to operational promotion programs and helping medium and small entrepreneurship. It is a pity, therefore, that all the counties in Croatia do not also use this line of support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through micro-credit where the Ministry of Economy, Business Banks and Countys sign their own agreements and contracts that significantly facilitate the availability of small entrepreneurs to finance. So crediting through business banks but also for significantly lower interest rates. So 2% of the lower interest in today's conditions is often both crucial and crucial. This year, the Croatian Government in the Programme for Operational Assistance to Small and Medium Entrepreneurship has allocated 58 million kunas for these programmes. And that is why I call on the Moslavina-Sik County, which has never participated in these programmes before, to join and thus enable equal status and their entrepreneurs, of course, to reach and reach better and cheaper funds. As for, of course, refinery and investment problems. The truth is, therefore, that the river refinery has invested over 400m euros. In Rafineri Sisak about 100, just over 118m euros. I would not say for myself whether discrimination or not was really at a time when it was perhaps even more manageable by a state that at the time also committed majority ownership, perhaps the whole process had already begun. I believe that now in the way that we want our influence, so what the state wants and what it needs to take advantage of its opportunities to protect and national interests to encourage what is written in the refinery reconstruction programme to be done in very intensely very soon. We also have promises, and we will, of course, insist that all that is planned in the Sisak refinery is completed by the end of next year. I think it will be a pleasure, of course, to all users of INA products, but of course the pleasures of Sisko and the surroundings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71017	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71018	Thank you very much for your answer. Mr. Ministers, we certainly expect you to insist on continuing the second phase of modernization of the INA refinery in Sisak, to build a coking facility that is necessary to rid yourself of those unpleasant scents when we talk about sulfur hydrogen, and of course to improve air quality, because citizens of Sisak and citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County deserve equal status with all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. So today, when we are making efforts to help the Croatian economy, we see and you have confirmed for yourself what we knew that, unfortunately, Sisak-Moslavina County is not working with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has therefore damaged the businessmen and craftsmen in our county. But this is not the only case where we see such phenomena, namely the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County has also not decided to take over the money provided at the Ministry of Education for the construction of a new crafts school in Sisak, she did not accept the assistance of the Ministry of Health to equip and the other hospitals in Petrinja, she does not accept any well-intentioned assistance offered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I think there is still a need to see perhaps the problem in her advisers. Namely, she has 14 advisers who will cost us during the term of 5 million kuna, and perhaps these mayoral advisers are misinformed. That's why I'm going to give Mrs. Mayor's free advice here, fire your advisors, direct that money to those who are in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71019	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71020	Thank you very much. My question goes to Mrs. Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, by the negative record in the Republic of Croatia, you are the only prime minister or prime minister who, within this short time period, has managed to put a central government in charge of 40 billion kuna, 150 thousand people out of work, but my question is one another. Do you know how many companies, businesses in Croatia have blocked accounts, how many can't pay their obligations, how inequitable and how much they can't pay their workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71021	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71022	Well, since the same Mr. Representative is speaking to me as a private person, then I'm going to respond somehow anyway, but then as a private person and I'm going to take advantage of the moment to say some information, as, yes, Mr. Maras, Mr. Representative mentions popularity and unpopularity towards research, then I'm going to mention in the answer, because that's part of the question, here is the final election results for the council of local committees. For example. in Vrbovac HDZ 61%, in Sibenik 44 and more, in Cacinci 63, in Jesenice 76, in Novska 36 and more, in Županja 55, however also in Karlovac, here with the exit of the last 28%, 56%, e.g. Not to mention, of course, many other places. Here's the thing about popularity, since Mr. Representative Maras asks me personally, and certainly this is data that also speaks of some research. Because I think that when research comes out in any election, and then for local committees, or for some re-election, or early local elections, it's research, it's a survey in which citizens circle for or against, so for someone or against someone. So it's some kind of research, too. And here's one research, for example. about party leaders, so it would be good for you to take a look at yourself, given the circumstances in which I've been leading, or since mid-2009. Government. As far as the specific question is concerned, here is the situation on 31.12.2010, the number of non-equity business entities 5 thousand 238, the amount of unexecuted basics reported to pay a billion kuna, 31.1.2011. 3 thousand 515, and 28.2.2011. Two thousand 252 business entities. However, in February, the number of business entities in short-term blockades up to 60 days, which can be considered an inequitable indicator, decreased by 16.7% compared to January 2011. The number of non-equity, i.e. from February 2010 of the value of the unexecuted basis for payment is lower, Mr. MP, by 33.6%. The growth of insolvent business entities in a 360-day blockade is continued, as is the growth of the value of blockades over 360 days, and that is something we are just solving, and I said earlier that, I said 22 000 and something is business entities without any employee who generate debt of more than 12 billion kuna, and that is something that the Government of the Republic of Croatia solves. In conclusion, I also remind the government of a recent decision to allow those who, in the first months of this year, show that they are fulfilling their obligations towards the state, to make the payment for 30 months, and thus to help people really get on their feet, above all to keep their jobs, I am talking about the economy. However, there are other measures concrete from the Ministry of Economy through several of our programmes, and in the incentives of the small and medium-sized economy, but there is certainly a need to see and see the fact that we are, for example. for the Grand Shipyard Brodosplit received a positive opinion from the Commission, that they had begun to arrange for the construction of ships and should, of course, put all of this into a general context when viewing liquidity, indifference and when looking at what is in our interest, and that is the exit from the crisis. In this sense, the government will not give up despite the meal, despite the untrue and in spite of any way that only one difficult disqualification is actually given instead of any questions. I must say, it personally encourages me to do even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71023	Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71024	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister, I have not mentioned the polls in one word, not one word. I don't know why you touched them. You've probably been burdened by the lowest HDZ rating since the polls are being conducted, so you're probably having a bit of a problem with that. Unfortunately, if the result of this government was better, you'd probably have a better rating. But it's just impossible at this point. But let's get back to the question. Since you've been Prime Minister, 24,000 business entities have been blocked or blocked. With your dissatisfaction, you and your government, you destroyed 40 companies a day. The SDP has tried in vain to propose a solution in this House, you have rejected them in all order, and very much in one way. So far, there are 36 billion kunas of outstanding claims at this point, and the liquidity is at record levels. Seventy-five thousand people work, and he doesn't get paid. Mrs. Kosor, with your unhappiness, Croatia is returning to the slave... and they don't get paid. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] That's what you've made possible by your government. All that time you've put us in charge of 40 billion kunas, 70... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71025	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71026	150 thousand people were out of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71027	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71028	Every day, and... Every day it works, and it doesn't even get... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71029	So please explain beyond Article 180(5). You entered the debate, and you did not express pleasure or dissatisfaction. That's the point. We keep breaking the Rules of Procedure, my people, so when will this session end?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71030	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71031	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71032	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71033	Indeed, I really must tell you that you are passing time for answers and questions and I am asking you to return to the Rules of Procedure otherwise this question and the answers will not be completed until three and four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71034	Mr. President, you HDZ gentlemen can do whatever you want, unfortunately you are doing damage to Croatian citizens, but this... Thank you. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71035	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. Nevenka Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71036	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with the ministers. Here, I will ask my question to the Minister of Justice Mr Drazen Bošnjaković and because the people of Preka on the island of Ugljan have come to us for help because I quote: "the illegalities of the tycoon Radomir Cacic and the corruption that has affected our place Preko and we have not earned such shame." Namely, the locals quote: "Our place Preko has gone worse because of the economic power and politician Mr. Cacic's past because of the economic power and politician Kukljica, which destroyed Zelena Punta's tourist resort in Kukljica. In 1992, when the Croatian people bled in Serbian aggression and fought for the survival of the company Radiir Cacic CONING, she bought the Cooperative Preko. The cooperative included a hotel in the center of Preka, restaurants and large terrain. Can you imagine the value of all this in our tourist area? The result of this shameful purchase is devastation, failure, layoff of workers and great damage to the future tourist development of our town Preko, and all because of Radiir Cacic, who does not care about the Croatian people but only himself, otherwise he would not destroy our small place. We're wondering if there's any justice and whether the gentleman in question will be held accountable for his actions, or if he's going to get away with it?", finished quote. Here, on behalf of these locals, Mr. Minister, and given this intentional abandonment of the company in Preko, but also in the neighboring Kukljica and Filip Jakov, and also in Pag, does this other one in a series of illegal acts, i.e. robbery or misdemeanors of Mr. Cacic, be processed in view of the recent amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71037	Thank you. Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71038	Madam MPs will no longer be able to hide behind the Institute of Depreciation. As you yourself have said the recent amendments to the Constitution, the new Penal Code will make it impossible for someone to cover themselves with that cloak to become obsolete and that everything he has done badly in the conversion and privatisation will not be sanctioned. Justice must be, we as the Croatian Government are really doing everything and the State's Attorney's Office in all these cases that are being threatened by statutes for reviewing these cases and we will create all the conditions for the smooth and quality work of the State's Attorney's Office to appear in conversion and privatisation, so that all those who have committed illegality are sanctioned after a fair and legal procedure in which all the facts should be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71039	Thank you. Madam representative Nevenka Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71040	Here, I am pleased with your answer and I hope that these next models that I am going to say below will not be possible anymore in the Zadar County area. But I believe that Croatian citizens should be introduced to models and privatisations and investment and employment and pay-offs and real estate trading that Mr. Cacic has spent many years in the Zadar County area as the main confidant of Zoran Milanovic. And the models look like this: as far as privatisation is concerned, the model is either cheap to buy or for 0 kuna, doesn't invest much and sell preferably to a foreign fund. As far as employment is concerned, employment means firing workers - in Kukljica 300 workers, and we know what one job means, the opening of one job on the island. In over 100 workers, after taking over 1, and after that none. How does the development of Croatian islands and tourism help? With 300 thousand overnight stays in the Preka area, which has 1500 inhabitants after the takeover of the hotel nights, they are reduced to 20 to 30 thousand a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71041	Finish it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71042	Paying off the remaining workers, I hope, according to the green pound model. It is mine to meet the citizens, and it is up to them to decide to accept these models on which Zoran Milanovic, with the choice or with the help of Radomer Cacic, plans to strengthen the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71043	Finish it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71044	And increase employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71045	Thank you. Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71046	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am asking the parliamentary question to Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, the minister of justice. It is known that the Association of Campers from the 5 largest camps in Serbia, Stajico, Begejski, Nis, Sremska Mitrovica and Belgrade Military Investigation Prison, filed war crimes charges against Serbian war crimes prosecutors Vladimir Vukcevic with campers' statements in May 2008. The report referred to the torture of prisoners in a way that killed prisoners, knocked out their teeth with a hammer, broken bones, and raped men and women who often remained pregnant and were forced to give birth to a criminal child. Every day they beat prisoners with their hands, feet, sticks, electrocuted them, burned them on their bodies, hung them, did not give them enough food and water, tormenting them with hunger and thirst, tested daily, day and night, beating them and threatening them. Death threats and shooting. Leading false shootings, led to false exchanges, banning communication with other prisoners, imprisoning captives into solitarys, forced viewing of the physical harassment of the other, listening to the yaks of the campers, leading to forced labour. No medical assistance has been provided to the wounded, all valuable items and money taken away, forced to sing Chetnik songs. So, in violation of international law, commanding him to torture and inhumanely treat various prisoners of war, killing them and torturing them with inhumane treatment of prisoners of war. So to commit a crime against humanity and international law, war crime. The prosecution hasn't prosecuted anyone yet or filed charges. Mr. Minister, are there dreams and according to international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Serbia, are they conducted and how far have war crimes investigations taken place against Croatian campers in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71047	Thank you. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71048	Thank you very much. Investigations are going on. But since investigations are really one part of which we can't talk publicly about all the actions being taken, I can only tell you that the slow-moving actions that are in the investigations are being carried out in the end and we expect very quickly to press charges against those most responsible for the establishment of the camps you've been talking about. Otherwise, as regards war crimes within our State's Attorney's office, special departments dealing with war crimes have been established, and these are not only in their own consequences and ways of carrying out very difficult acts, but they are also difficult in the legal sense of proof. In fact, the perpetrators are often unknown, often in other countries, difficult to reach, difficult to reach. And that's why what you asked about these agreements that our state-owned bodies have, specifically, our State's Attorney's Office with the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Serbia are extremely important. They are important for cooperation to exchange evidence and in this exchange of evidence we can be more successful in sanctioning such crimes as they were. So to your question I am giving the answer, I believe very quickly that this investigation will end and that it will end just by pressing charges, and then the legal procedure will analyse all the evidence, determine the facts, and I believe the guilty who did this, who are responsible for being brought to justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71049	Thank you. Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71050	I would point out the fact that 30,000 people are trapped in Serbian concentration camps, of which is 3,000 women and 500 children. Well, here's another note that our president, I have to thank you, keep it that way, but Serbia has no right to judge any crimes. None of us have fought in Serbia and therefore I ask you to continue as you started and I think in the end that all our defenders will sleep peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71051	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71052	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the personally elected heir of Ivo Sanader to the post of Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, can you tell us how two thousand kunas of wages or pension can survive in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71053	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71054	Mr. President, since this is not a question but merely an attempt to offend itself, I know, of course, the public who know the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian laws that I am not an heir because this is not a monarchy, so I can't be an heir. This is a country in which parliamentary democracy is ruled and in which the president and members of the government are elected in Parliament and governments as long as they have support in Parliament. That's what happened to me and my colleagues. We have been elected in Parliament, on the basis of the mandate that I received from former President Mesic, we have received here full support, we continue to do our job despite Mr Jovanovic's efforts to disqualify the HDZ first and in this context are, of course, all of his statements that qualified us as a criminal organisation, which, of course, HDZ will never forget or forgive you, and we will have the legal means to fight against people who exclusively hate, disqualify and try to do evil to others, while defending absolutely all potential criminals in their ranks. I'll ask you this question that didn't answer, would you explain to me, Mr. Jovanovic, how can you fly for 7 kuna and get paid or not pay VAT?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71055	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71056	I am not satisfied with the answer, although I am amazed by the answer because just as Ivo Sanader replied to me now Mrs. Kosor, that no word looked back on my.../The speaker turned off./... Mrs. Kosor, you don't know the answer. It is a wonder how Croatian citizens, workers, craftsmen, pensioners can even survive in Croatia today. 207,000 workers have a salary of less than 2200 kuna, 750,000.../The speaker is excluded./... receives a salary less than the national average. .../The speaker's off./... it's even worse. Therefore, Mrs Kosor these are your results, you should talk about it, not threaten me, to threaten a parliamentary representative in the Croatian Parliament. ... /The noise in the hall./... You talked a lot, you made a lot of promises, but you didn't do anything. Croatian citizens expect a fair job from the Croatian government, a fair salary for fair work and a fair pension for a decent age. You didn't make any of that happen. That's why we need elections, the new government.../The speaker turned off./... that you brought her to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71057	Thank you. The elections will be under constitutional provisions and laws, and we do not need to ask it as a question at any moment, it will be announced in time. I didn't understand that the Prime Minister was threatening you, but... Let's move on with the questions and will continue to ask Mr. Ranko Ostojić a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71058	Dear Prime Minister, last time we asked a similar question so you didn't know the answer, I hope it'll be better now, and that's how much does a liter of gasoline cost? ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71059	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71060	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Since we've also published a new regulation on which fuel prices are harmonised, so not only gas, Mr. MP, so we're talking about, I guess you're looking for that, about the fuel category, and there's gas, but there's others, and then we're going to, because we have diesel fuel, I guess you know that. So the highest retail price level from 5.4 to 18.4.2011 for Eurosuper 95 9.76, for Eurosuper 98 10.06, is the highest level, for Eurosuper 100 10.26. For diesel fuel euro diesel 9.33 for diesel diesel 8.95, for gas oil euro 6.30, for gas oil L 6.10 and for blue diesel 5.43. So within that framework, all those who sell fuel can move. We have certainly allowed highways to be formed in the manner in which this market and in accordance with European Union regulations, means with the directives of the European Union that we must comply with and can. So that's your range, Mr. Representative. I guess you don't expect me to give you information about any gas station in Croatia, it means whether it's on the highway or somewhere else, but if it's necessary, I'll prepare you a detailed written response to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71061	Thank you. Mr. Ranko Ostojić, please. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71062	Thank you, Madam President of the Croatian Government. I'm glad you gave the right answer right now, but I just have to warn you that this last sentence of yours is very important, which is that you're going to give a report today because we're not sure what's going to happen in seven days, or what changes are going to happen. What I want to remind you, Madam Prime Minister, two years ago a liter of Eurosuper, which is now 10.06 kuna, was 7 and a half kuna. It was a situation that we're a fuel tank that cost 300 kunas today, we pay 400 kuna, it's 33% kuna more. And instead of being Prime Minister, you worry that there is no blow to Croatian citizens you will be changing those regulations. What I would like to tell you, Madam Prime Minister, which I think would be very good, and some have called here before, that we will indeed welcome the 20th anniversary of Croatian independence.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71063	Thank you. So the answer was accurate. Thank you. Mrs. Sunny Head will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71064	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, members and members of the government. I'm going to ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Djuri Popiac, even though there are similar issues, I can't ignore this. Since I got the letter and the Koning workers came to me and what it says about the Koning Eco-building workers, we write to you because we have no one to complain to, and we're on edge and desperate. We've been working in Koning, and we haven't received a salary in four months. What we got before Christmas was some kind of advance and then nothing. We're interested in whether we have the right and who we say we don't lose our jobs, so we write that you take care of us when it's said that the bosses don't pay their wages. We ask for help, we have families and children, standing in the letter that they sent to me as representatives of this contingencies election unit. I asked a few more questions, so I also found out that Ratimira Cacica also owes several dozen million kunas to producers and cooperatives, so it's unacceptable. By generating such indifference of a particular small company, and I think you know what the craftsmen were and were forced to stop working. Mr. Minister, my question to you is what are you going to do about this illegal action and exploitation of workers, and of course I'm not talking about political haughtiness here as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71065	Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71066	Mr. President, Your Honor. So here's to paraphrasing what Mr. Jovanovic said. So Croatian workers expect their earnings from their employers. The state as an employer pays the wages, and of course we've talked about these and these employers before. So they really shouldn't and can't be classified as the most prominent, honest and high-quality employers whose very likes provide the epithet of the general impression, the bad impression that the Croatian public has towards entrepreneurship. And that is why it is necessary, therefore, that the Croatian government will also do so to eliminate such from the world of business, from the world of economy. And that's what we're going to do in the future, and that's what we're working on together with our social partners. So it is not allowed, of course, that every entrepreneur can fall into difficulties for various reasons, and certainly he will make sure that his workers have the last difficulties and feelings. But when someone's economic success and personal wealth is based on payouts, then it's certainly not a legitimate entrepreneur, it's not a businessman who should even present himself in the first place, and in particular you shouldn't lecture from a political pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71067	Mrs. Sunny Head, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71068	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll just repeat, those workers are at their jobs right now. So, this same businessman who hopes to place in that corny coalition of Deputy Prime Ministers is probably with the socially sensitive SDP president maybe at lunch somewhere, which, by the way, receives pay and is not at his post. So, full of mouth social sensitivity, and workers' accounts are empty. We're counting on you, of course, to change that for you who are members and members of the government here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71069	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71070	Mr. President, Madam President with members of the government, Mr. Minister. My question was addressed to the Minister of Interior Mr. Karamark. In the previous local elections for the Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County of the Two Councilors Josip... and Vladimir Greguric voted in favour of the election of presidents, vice-presidents and the working bodies of the county assembly from the political option with which they participated in the elections, to change the side after a month and the next session of the county assembly to resolve them, the choice of the second leadership from the opposite political option. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, their party excluded them from membership. It is interesting that after that, the members of the mayoral council are appointed with a monthly fee of 5000 kuna net income, which is assessed in public as a school example of political corruption, or a corrupt criminal offence, to receive and grant bribes as referred to in Articles 347 and 348. Penalty law. Afterward, the County Assembly transferred almost all its powers to the mayor. In regular monitoring of the work of Sisak-Moslavina County, the Ministry of Administration found that the mayor had no authority to determine the compensation for the work of the council, but it was the authority of the County Assembly. It was also ordered to return power to the County Assembly so that this authority was returned to the County Assembly. The competent national authority in the supervision of the financial operations of Sisak-Moslavina County has determined that the members of the mayor's council were paid 580 thousand 615 kuna net and 908 thousand 777 kuna, respectively, for the work on the basis of the mayor's decision which she had no right to make. However, these unlawfully paid fees have not been reimbursed to the county budget. My question to you is: What the MUP can do to shed light on, that is, whether or not the police will react in this situation when there is a public interest in political corruption, i.e. receiving bribes from the two councilors Franjo Greguric, and paying illegal fees to members of the mayor's council.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71071	Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71072	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. MP. Of course, the government can, or the MUP can, and the MUP is already taking over. So, I must inform you that, in a specific case, in cooperation with the County State Attorney in Sisak, the police are conducting criminal research, so on this particular case, regarding possible illegality in work by the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71073	Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71074	Well, here I am, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, must express my satisfaction with this kind of police work. In any case, fighting corruption is not a fight against one political option but a public interest. Just for a short while, I'll list a few titles that came out. So, Joseph Priner, for rewarding a place on five county boards. It was not yet known that he was a member of the council because this information was not published in the official messenger. After that, Franjo Greguric was expelled from HSU. However, it might be best to conclude this short address with two sentences in a newspaper article by one of our prominent journalists and columnist who in the article as spy Karamarko revealed Linic, I will quote: "When, however, SDP's Sisak-Moslavina Mayor Marina Lovrić paid the loyalty of the coalition partners by declaring them all to her advisers and giving them a monthly fee of 5000 kuna, it was likely to satisfy the need of a poor county for highly valuable professional staff." You can think! If this is not a school example of political corruption, then we can say that Zagreb is the capital of Great Britain. However, it may be even better to finish with the sentence, the last sentence from this one, and as far as the spies are concerned, Linic's Rijekans would say forca Karamarko catch them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71075	Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71076	On Tuesday, March 1, this year, you held a meeting after which you went out to the camera saying, "Citizens, don't worry, there won't be any gatherings!" Do you still consider that after your statement, Croatian citizens are more relaxed?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71077	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71078	Mr. President, I'm going to answer again as a private person. I guess simply Mr. Representative isn't in, here in the heat of the struggle he remembered that here I am working on the work of the Prime Minister, so I'll answer. Certainly, we are absolutely doing everything possible for citizens to live better. It would be good and it would be important and it would be necessary and, in fact, necessary for all, therefore, units of local self-government, administration and so on, the City of Zagreb. For example, the collection of municipal services in the City of Zagreb certainly does not contribute to making citizens and citizens of the City of Zagreb, where the vast population of the Republic of Croatia lives better. All of these, and more relaxed, and all of these dubiosiss that we know, here's about for example. Holding for which the SDP is solely responsible, so that they have a minus 500 million kuna, and that they still employ day and night, for example. place of marketing director without a public tender, simply because our information is about some friendly relations, which is irrelevant for this story, but certainly totaling the view of Zagreb where SDP has been ruling for 10 years is not an island. Zagreb is part of Croatia, and what happens in Zagreb, in the economy, in the collection of communals, in the irrational spending of taxpayers' money, so citizens of the city of Zagreb, in certain suspicious ways, as you see businesses, at least according to what the first signs we receive are, for example. for the city pharmacy, etc., I'm not talking about details, because I don't know the details, I'm talking about what I hear, what I see, what the lawyers are saying in the end, is something that the SDP should be dealing with as a party living in Croatia. And as for the government, of course we will continue to do everything to make sure that the number of unemployed falls, that the number of employees is growing, that this number of employment-related numbers as they were in the past year, that we hire 20% more than in 2009, that the growth of consumption as it grows means 8 months in a row of consumption of citizens is growing, and this proves that some trends, positive trends, will in no way qualify them, which are important to us. In addition, it is clear that the economic recovery programme needs to be applied, the economic recovery programme is absolutely implemented, the measures that are being implemented this year, and the most important meeting is major investment projects. And of course, the government can't do it alone, depending on the potential at local level, in many cities, municipalities, counties, and even in the City of Zagreb, whether these projects will go faster, or they will be slowed down. And the main thing is the fight against corruption, for which here is the party, my party, and here's which leads the government did a lot of things, a lot of good, a lot of important, a lot of crucial, and we would certainly like to do that to other parties, even if that is the case with the SDP. I believe that one day and that time must come, because that struggle depends on the personal courage of those who decide. It takes personal courage, some have it, and some don't. Some do, and some keep talking about the election now. The elections will take place when they arrive, and I am convinced here that this ruling coalition will achieve excellent results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71079	Thank you. Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71080	I'm not satisfied, because you're responding as... You're Croatian citizens... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Don't worry, there won't be any food collection. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] That's what we're talking about at... but... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] 16%,... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] flour for 14, fresh milk for 8, yogurt for 6 and a half,... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] More 8... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Seven and a half... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] From such... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] a day with your government... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] More and more expensive... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] He's alive. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] There's no... For a better life... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Interested... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Is that chair... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71081	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative and Vice-President of Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71082	I refer the question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Bozidar Kalmeta. Mr Minister, within the framework of the Transport Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, construction of VC corridors of the European Corridor within that strategy, implementation and strategy have already been built parts of the VC corridor through, in particular through Slavonia, Srednci-Đakovo, Đakovo-Osjek, beautiful Slavonics, has been brought from a certain assumption that it is going towards the construction of the one from Wednesdays to Svilaj and the bridge across the Sava River. I am interested in what the ministry and you and the government are doing to continue to build the VC corridor, especially with regard to the bridge over the Drava River near Osijek, and to continue to build that section from Osijek to the Croatian-Hungarian border. What are all the necessary assumptions so far, that these two shares start to be built, which is with project documentation, building permits, loan contracts, and when can work be expected to begin to build a bridge across the Drava River near Osijek, as part of the VC corridor?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71083	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Calmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71084	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, therefore, the VC corridor is as is known as one of the most important corridors that passes through Croatia, but is important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, as it goes from Budapest to the port of Ploca, and as already stated on that corridor, as regards the Croatian part of the building of certain important and important shares, and the importance of this corridor has also been recognised by the European financial institutions, the European banks, who are willing to finance the further construction of this important corridor. When I talk about Corridor VC up north, then we have two parts, so to speak. It is the first share from the Wednesdays to the border with BiH and the bridge across the Sava. The share will be financed by the European Investment Bank and the EBRD and they have already granted 60 million loans. This EBRD loan was also ratified in the Croatian Parliament. Soon it'll be this loan with the EIB. So a total of 120m euros, but that includes building down to the south of Corridor VC. So from the Ploca knot to the border from BiH, the border crossing down south is already running. The competition for this stock from the Wednesdays to the border from BiH, including a bridge over the Sava that will be financed half, so half of Croatia's half of BiH is under way. The completion of the competition, the selection of performers and the practical start of the work is expected soon. As far as the bridge over Drava is concerned, it's a continuation of that corridor up towards the white monastery and the border with Hungary because the highway was built, as we know, to Osijek. There was also a contest held for the bridge. The most favourable bidder was the Croatian consortium and it seems to me about 950 million kuna. As for the financing was also implemented, HAC conducted a funding tender and the German Development Bank, so KFE gave the most favourable terms of credit at 15 years interest is something over 3% to me and Grace period is several years. So, and what is it now, what are the next steps? This loan must go beyond the government procedure clearly and all ministries that must give consent to this. After that, it can be practically started by performing works on the bridge via Drava on Corridor VC. What I want to point out is that in the 4-year maintenance and construction plan of public roads it is planned. It is also in the annual plan that every year the Croatian government brings for construction of both Croatian roads and Croatian highways is also planned. And that plan has been accepted. Therefore, all assumptions were practically concluded that these shares could be realised and that I was now talking about, including the bridge over the Drava at Corridor VC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71085	Vice President Shakespeare, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71086	I am pleased with the answer because now all the necessary assumptions are fulfilled to start building this bridge across the Drava River. I hope that the government will give this 130m-euro loan within a few days and that the work on building this bridge will begin already this month because everything, absolutely everything is ready and the construction operation is prepared, all the documentation is arranged and that this future bridge will be part like Slavonica on the move Wednesday – Osijek so that this bridge will also be part as part of Slavonica this will be part of Baranjka. Minister Baranika is going at least some say that the government treats Slavonia and Baranja as a stepmother, and this is the best denial that these are just false claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71087	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71088	President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring my question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Byce. Last year's tourist season was one of the best ever. If we look at the circumstances in which she is led where the severe economic crisis has also affected Croatia, it is absolutely certain that this success is getting even more important. But it's behind us. We have a new tourist season ahead of us, and it is absolutely certain that the ministry and the government are expected to see new successes, the ladder is expected to rise and at least a little further up. And the first challenge is certainly ahead of us, it's the Easter holidays. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, what has the Ministry of Tourism done so far and what makes this tourist season even more successful or successful than last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71089	Thank you. Mr. Minister Damir Byce, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71090	Your Honor, your Honor, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister. So what you asked is quite true. So last year, Croatia had one of the most successful seasons ever. The scale is quite high. In fact, our score is actually twice as good as Europe when we look at the arrival of international guests and that is actually our goal in this year 2011. However, the government made all moves in good time, the Action Plan was adopted on 11 months 2010, and we have almost fully fulfilled it now. What I'd say is that we're ahead of us and entering the main season, so Easter and Easter break. And as far as we know it will be better than last 2010 because we expect tourists primarily from countries around, such as Italy, Germany, Austria and Slovenia, to actually fill our hotels. However, we felt that what we did was not good enough so that we made additional measures for the pre-season and we want once the hotels open to keep these facilities open up to almost all year long, at least of course until the main season. This is the goal ahead of us, and we expect that we will probably achieve it successfully and successfully. However, all this depends primarily on our activities and I would like to thank, of course, my colleagues in the government, the prime minister, but also all those who work in tourism because only a joint public-private partnership can have a successful season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71091	Thank you. Mr. Zdravko Kelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71092	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Well, I'm happy with the answer, and I believe that you'll accomplish what you're up to, and also that what we want in such a difficult economic situation this year will happen. I believe that tourism, which is certainly the strongest branch in Croatia, does not mean much for Croatia, but is the ringleader of everything positive that should happen in Croatia. So I say I want you, and we want a lot of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71093	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71094	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, I refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Djura Popijac. In the past days, employees of the Sibenik company MIAB have come to them specialising in the construction of pumping stations and treatment devices. They're like co-operatives of the Varazdin Company Coneco d.o.o. which was owned by Mr. Radiir Cacic did the most demanding part of the work at the construction of the city collector in Sibenik. However, although the Sibenik water and sewerage was fully paid off by Cacicev Coneco, he has not paid MIAB as a subcontractor until today. The question of debt was raised to 3 million kuna by an epilogue in court. I must also stress that Mr. Cacic's court settlement obliged to pay the first debt war of 450 thousand kuna until 15.3.2011, which he did only a few days ago after the media pressure was made. This behaviour of Mr. Cacic is unacceptable and generates a problem that chokes the Croatian economy. For example, the mentioned company MIAB is unable to pay off the work done, there is no money for the salaries of workers about 60 of them, which is why they are forced to quit. My question is, Mr. Minister, are there mechanisms that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would end up with debtors such as Mr. Cacic who systematically destroy the Croatian economy by keeping no account of employees' rights?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71095	Thank you. Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71096	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative, here's your question actually motivates me to ask myself and you how is it that as a politician here he knows the answer to all the problems and indifferences and wages and everything, while as a businessman he doesn't know the answers to these questions? In fact, everything is very simple, everything that needs to be done needs to be paid. So you have to pay your suppliers and pay the wages to the workers. And there are no other economic or scientific models to make the economy less burdened and inequitious and underpaid. So, it's often said of course that the state is a generator of indifference, that the government doesn't know how to solve this problem and that in fact all together here we hear today from the constituency benches of criticism in that direction. But here's the answer most often in these questions, and this is the most recent example. So, when someone in the public sector settled their accounts neatly, such as the Sibenik Waterway, which is why in the next step, the one who took those jobs did not continue to pay what was set out for its suppliers. And that's where it goes and ends all the stories about the payment and the generation of liquidity or indifference. So let us, of course, start from ourselves especially us who are speaking publicly about this problem that where we are responsible for not generating, but of course all of this further must encourage us especially in that judicial area, and this is not the economic issue right now, is it essentially a judicial question that all of these who in this way imagine and carry out their economic activities as quickly and as quickly as possible we spend and spend our time through the judicial system and prevent such behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71097	Mr. Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71098	Thank you, Mr. Minister. As arrogant and socially insensitive as Mr. Cacic is the main SDP coalition partner, he is obviously in a difficult financial crisis, so he wants to hide all of this with his insolence and make up for his power by providing jobs to himself, as he did to his partners during the former coalition government. If these are the criteria and criteria to be run by the state, well, the country they'd run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71099	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71100	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister with a member and members of the government. I'll ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Mr. Minister, the memo addressed the workers of the Zadar Skin Factory with a request to help them if possible. Namely, their problem is next. Skin factories Zadar went bankrupt in 2000, and the bankruptcy ended in 2002. Workers lost their earnings and incomes, severances and other rights acquired. Although at the start of the bankruptcy, they were under the then Banking Act in the first payment order, until the bankruptcy ended in 2002. The SDP and its coalition partners changed the Labour Bank's bankruptcy law, so workers were transferred to another payment order. The workers of the Zadar Skin Factory were unable to collect their claims due to this amendment to the Bank of Zadar because all those in the first payment order were previously charged. certain institutions. The former workers believe that due to this amendment to the Law on bankruptcy and transfer from first to second payment order, they are damaged by 11 salaries and severances and therefore seek the help of the Government and the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I am asking you because the apparent political will of HDZ and its coalition partners is shown by an amendment to the Bank's Insurance Act, under which workers are undoubtedly and undeniably placed in the first payment order with all their claims, whether there are any means through economic social measures, of course, because the law cannot be retroactively applied, to help these workers, as well as hundreds of other workers who have lost their full wages, severances and other rights acquired.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71101	Thank you. Minister Gjuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, therefore, besides this amendment to the bankruptcy law in those years, the most common solution to the problem of economic problems is, of course, always exist, so there were also then solved by the mass sending of companies into bankruptcy. Unfortunately, at the same time, this law has changed, and probably alongside these workers who appear to you, there are perhaps thousands and hundreds who have experienced the same fate that we don't know about at this point. Certainly, in this particular case we must and is worth consulting with and with colleagues from the judiciary, but of course we will try to find adequate solutions and all possible variants of help for these workers who have addressed you. We're in the meantime, as you know, and you said and changed that injustice, so the workers are in bankruptcy again in the first order. It has also improved the law which provides for compensation for workers paid in the event of bankruptcy by the Agency for the Protection of Workers' Search, so a number of additional improvements have been made, but certainly we will continue to direct our efforts together with colleagues from the Ministry of Justice and others, to continue to improve bankruptcy laws and conditions in which bankruptcy takes place so that they can be a new opportunity for workers and the whole system not to see it as an end but actually a new opportunity for the new start of the subject's economic but also as a new member of the workers themselves. I believe we will not make such mistakes as were made in early 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71103	Thank you. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71104	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with your answer because it's the only possible way out of the way to repair the damage done to those workers. Of course, we're not satisfied with the fact that the workers have suffered damage and are not provided with their bankruptcy rights, but Latins say "sapients watch" or smart enough. And so much for the credibility of the SDP and the coalition partners who are here every day, and today, but also in this assembly, they are moaning over the socially deprived, and in four years their authorities have done everything, and some of them at the cabinet ministers' positions to cut off all social rights both for workers, pensioners, and so on and maternity benefits and child benefits. At that time, they called it courageous decisions, and they found themselves heroes in the weakest, and despite these courageous decisions, they failed to make their pre-election promise of 200 thousand jobs and economic movements. And I believe that these workers, as well as other citizens, will then be in strategies, such as SDP and HNS strategists who offer themselves as those who will save Croatia and the Croatian economy will recognise all the fog, cobwebs and incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71105	Mrs. Ivanka Roksandic will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71106	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President of the Croatian Government with members of the government. I refer my question to Mr. Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Karamark. Dear Mr. Minister, I recently sent you a letter from a health care worker in Sisak who sent me their letter, and I'm going to quote the reason why. This way you are addressed by emergency workers at the House of Health Sisak in the hope that you will understand and understand this letter. In fact, we anonymous employees report in this way to point to irregularities in our institution that are very large. We write to you anonymously in fear of being fired, which is easy to get here. Namely, I must say that this institution is managed by the SDP director appointed by the county SDP authorities. And the irregularities that point out are the following, among other things, abuse of official INA fuel purchase cards and those for vehicles that are not imagined or registered, so they were written off. To use the car 24 hours a day by the principal, but at the same time charging travel expenses. Specially for the processing of official orders for the transport of patients, therefore sanitary transport in order to collect more from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute what you can imagine and monitor the Croatian Health Insurance Institute according to the statements of some who are in charge. Here, not only these anonymous employees, but I received a month ago and a copy of a criminal application signed by the name and last name of one of our fellow citizens of Sišenin to the State's Attorney's Office, citing all these examples between the other and the ones that anonymous employees mention. Since I sent you this letter, I am asking you because they wrote to me again the other day and asked to see what happened to this letter, whether I, as their parliamentary representative, had taken certain measures, so I am asking you to take action as Minister of the Interior against this principal and what you can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71107	Thank you. Mr. Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, so we've already taken over, they've launched investigative actions, crime research, it's now under way, and I expect to complete these investigations quickly. So we did everything we needed to do after we got this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71109	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71110	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with your answer, and there will be citizens watching this because they told me they'll see if I ask that question. There's just one more thing I have to say, I didn't mention in this question, and this is where the employment that we've been talking about here today is so much that I have to say the usual practice of SDP. Imagine, for ambulance drivers, one of the conditions is that you are a member of the SDP, and the competition for these same drivers is published in presses that do not go out in our county but as much as 500 km away, somewhere in some coastal newspapers to satisfy the form of competition publishing. Well, I'm glad that you and Mr. Milanovic are here, that you're back in the assembly, and I mean, you once said that you won't fight corruption, so I think you'll start living without corruption. Try sending this message to your members at lower levels in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71111	Thank you. He will ask a question, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71112	Thank you. It's a question for Mrs. Prime Minister. I see there's one of the amateur detectives who's following Zoran here, it's like some extra activity. The question for Mrs. Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor is no secret that in Croatia the situation is indeed dramatic and should not be closed in front of it, it does not help anyone, no stream of words, no verbal acrobatics can conceal the truth that every ninth credit today is unchargeable in Croatia, that only in the last two years has been wiped out of the face of the country by 15,000 companies and crafts. No one can change the bitter truth that the credit rating of Croatia is such that.../The speaker is excluded./... Credit in Slovenia of 100,000 euros per 20 years, in Croatia you pay 40,000 euros more expensive because we stand worse. Who will change the fact that 80,000 of our fellow citizens have blocked accounts, etc., that I do not count further what my colleagues have listed. Madam Prime Minister, don't be surprised what it really sounds like to say mildly cynically when you say that people live more relaxedly, that it really sounds like you're ignoring the truth when you say that prices aren't going down, that they're not falling, that they're not going down, so I ask you if you're ready, are you ready to come to Split so why don't you and I, from two different parties, with different functions, but we're politicians walking through the Split market to make sure of your own, calm down the choir, calm down the choir. To make sure that the cabbage was collected by 44% and that one good part of our fellow citizens lives, that we go to the most ordinary lunch in... So that you may see for yourselves whether someone is lying to you, and you believe in them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe it's really not your fault because you don't know. But ignorance doesn't justify it! Here, are you ready to accept my invitation? [[Invader President: Ask a question.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71113	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71114	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Thank you for this offer, for this call. You really are love. I don't know what home will say about that, but well, you're probably more courageous. I'll take Split, here's a coffee somewhere, but I'll walk in Split and walk with the members of my party. So, with members of the Croatian Democratic Community. And if I come in, if I come in party, if I come in to work then of course I'm with everyone who's invited to some event, and of course I'm with SDP agents. But I'm not going to go to the market with you, I'm going to go alone because I don't think it would be a good idea for anyone to misread it. So, for example, either one of us wants to attract public attention because the other one is with him in society. So, I don't think we need that. But coffee can go anywhere you want. As for your finding that the situation in Croatia is dramatic, it is incorrect and it is false. It is, however, on the trail of some of the statements that we also heard from the political living that in Croatia there is chaos, that the state is dramatically being repeated by others before you. But certainly from the left political option. Of course, you look at the state of dramaticism or not only in the context of whether you are in power or not, so we can ask why you do not comment on the situation in Zagreb. For example, is the situation in Zagreb with Holding dramatic or not? I think the situation was dramatic, but for example in the period when 16% of HT was sold out, when the Rijeka Bank was sold out, when the second part of PBZ privatisation was made, when the Split Bank was sold out, when hotels were sold out, when INA 25% plus 1 INA shares were sold, when the deficit was financed, which was greater than 5.4% today. When the number of unemployed was 415000 despite your announcements that 200 would be employed and I don't know how many thousands of people. So, in these conditions when there was no crisis and GDP growth was different than today because there was no global crisis was a deficit of 5.4% and everything that was sold was sold, everything someone wanted to buy. It was a dramatic condition. Today is not a dramatic situation. That's what many indicators are talking about. Of course it's hard, of course it's a crisis, of course we're fighting. We are trying to bring together everyone who has something to say, everyone who can, everyone who wants it here is clearly visible that your party does not want to contribute in any way or where you are in power I repeat, which is in Zagreb. But I don't want to talk about it any longer. There will be occasions, of course, at party news conferences and party meetings. So we will continue to work hard and on measures that deliver results in the long term. This is where one of your colleagues already mentioned, of course, with a smirk of water, aromatized water, etc. Yes, we will continue with the combined public procurement whether you like it or not, because in this year, we expect 350 million kuna savings in this year's combined public procurement. All this is money that we can then reroute to strengthening the economy. All this is money that we are saving, that we are deploying differently thanks to the measures it has implemented and implemented by this government. And thanks to our measures, we managed to fight for the future of the shipyard in Split, and that's when you called people on the road, when you cheated on smugglers and when you said everything was lost and everything was ruined, and we fought for the circus to survive that people have jobs, that they could work and feed their children and school. And so we will continue in Split and all of Croatia, and we will not allow this way of speaking by Mrs. Roksandić that some driver must be a member of the SDP in order to drive and make Croatia blush as soon as possible. In that sense, we won't allow it. We'll continue to do our job honestly and honestly. We will finish negotiations and get Croatia out of the crisis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71115	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71116	Madam Prime Minister, your style exercises don't impress me at all. You know what happened to you? The worst thing that could happen to a politician happened to you. I may have sympathy for you, but you're in such a position to do harm. Not only do you deceive the public, but you deceive yourself. So, you're in one hell of a crisis too, I'd say. Cerebral hygiene, erasing from the brain what you don't like won't help you as you are now saying that someone from the SDP has been calling into the streets what is never unlike you did SDP. So your colleague says the SDP kicked the workers out of front row to second order... Mrs. Kosorice, gather around. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Resign. .../ The speaker is off, you can't hear
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71117	Let's move on. We're a little cheered up here, not bad. Let's move on. Mr. Miljenko Doric will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71118	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. After listening to 30 questions and 30 answers, I give up asking the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jandrokovic, because I do not want to participate in this shameless, useless and humiliating verbal... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71119	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71120	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I want to participate in this current hour, so I'm going to ask Minister Davorina Mlakara, whose ministry has a resolution of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So here we all know that about a year and a half ago, SDP President Zoran Milanovic bought a new apartment, 127 square meters in the center of Zagreb, and told the public that he would settle the purchase by selling an old 130 square-square apartment. But here's a fresh property card, in which both apartments still owned by Mr. Milanovic and his family. Interestingly, as the loudest anti-corruption and crime fighter, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, using Erste & Steiermärkische's loan, which was more favourable for him than for ordinary citizens, bought an apartment and received a loan of 298 thousand euros within 30 years. And what's interesting about that? It is interesting that the bank has some kind of line above which it does not give such an old age above which it does not give such credits, but in Mr Milanovic it was not worth it, it did not meet the conditions, but it was given such a large loan and it was clearly and very favourable interest of 5.6%. Well, Mr. Minister, I would only ask you to answer, is this new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest going to deal with Mr. Zoran Milanovic? In view of this deception to the public, as well as the characteristic resistance to lawmaking. I think it's much clearer now because both SDP and Mr Milanovic were against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71121	Mr. Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71122	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, you have correctly stated that the Ministry of Administration's resolution had the adoption and supervision of the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, for the first time this law significantly served the obligations of all officials, including parliamentary representatives in the application of their property, and then in the control of what they reported. So this law, which was passed at the previous session, envisioned, among other things, the establishment of a special professional non-partisan and independent body, a commission that will decide on cases of conflict of interest, and the previous obligation is for all officials in the Republic of Croatia, and not only at the level of the central government but also local authorities, to report all of their assets described by that law, which is therefore the value of not only real estate, but also bank accounts and everything else considered to be reported when they take office. During the term of office of each of the officials, including parliamentary representatives, the commission shall have the right to verify the allegations in their property cards and, in the event of doubt, take the measures laid down by that law to determine whether all the property cards of the officials are true. The commission, I said, is a professional body, I am convinced that it will carry out its task correctly and will guarantee independence in treating everyone, and will probably then have the subject you spoke of in your work or in your work and give an adequate answer to the question whether the property that all officials have reported is also supported by those documents on acquisitions that they should have. I believe that this commission will start operating within a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71123	Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71124	So here I thank the minister, and here I believe that the new law will also make a big contribution to the fight against corruption, and I must say that I am much clearer on why this strong resistance to lawmaking was, and the announcement to the Kukurik coalition that the Prime Minister will, according to them, be Zoran Milanovic, Finance Minister Slavko Linic, and Economy Minister Cacic, will be a major contribution to the development of corruption, so I wonder why this strong effort by HDZ in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71125	Thank you very much. We don't know who the presidents and ministers will be, we'll see. Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Prime Minister as the most responsible now. About three and a half years ago, I signed my support to the government, of course because of the projects we agreed at the time because of the even development of Croatia. The projects were determined by colleagues, colleagues and I, I think we well established, three and a half years later the president asked what happened to the projects we agreed on for Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Belgar County? We have agreed to build a road towards Bjelovar, colleagues have worked on projects towards Koprivnica, so there is a Belarusian-Bilogian ipsion, a hospital building, and also a student-student home because there are about a thousand 300 students without adequate accommodation in the town of Bjelovar. Of course, it was also about the railroad and the water supply and the like. Today I'm asking what's going on with these projects, if they're going, and by the nod of the head I see they're going, then it'd be good to know when those projects are going, so that wouldn't happen, we all took pictures of ourselves, after the cameras leave and the cameras leave to stop the works. Believe me, the citizens are very interested in this and they're asking if we lied to them. I'd like to know if we did?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71127	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71128	Well, ma'am, I think you know the answer, that we didn't, so the answer is certainly not, and I agree with you, and I also think that starting certain projects doesn't matter how many cameras there are going to be, how many shovels there are going to be, how many guests there are going to be. I'm opposed to having foster parents organized after that, rather than doing it myself. So, in what is agreed, of course, and within the time limit, that is to end. About the projects you mentioned, there's plenty of them. I think it's important here to say and you know that we are here as well as a recent member of the government that we as a government are committed to supporting projects that are good, that are sustainable, that are real, that are for the benefit of people living in a particular area, and that the government does not ask who is who in power. So one of the biggest projects or better said maybe when everything is summed up the most money is e.g. I'm talking about the mandate of this government. Simply because of large projects that are launched from university to roads etc. As for those you are talking about, then, in particular the Belovar – Virovitica section of the highway, we are now under way to create an idea solution and study on the impact of the procedure on the environment. And time is predicted, so when it's supposed to end, it's half this year. The tour of the city of Chazema, therefore the idea solution was made and a location permit was issued which is of course a big deal. The same eastern bypass of Bjelovar – the time of the end of the middle of this year is foreseen. A common road node of Bjelovar ending somewhere in the fall. Then we also have the Daruvar – Lipik stock, which is the intended time after the adoption of the bone plans. Of the other activities there are plenty of them, I will try only to mention what you are, is the Student House in Bjelovar. So, where it involves building a new building of a large school home for the accommodation of 150 students and a co-financing contract has been signed and the confirmation of the main project has been issued. Therefore, the procedure for public competition is on the move, and as far as the elementary school in Končanica is concerned, works worth nearly 6 million have been agreed and their completion is expected this year. Here, it's in the shortest. Of course, I think it might be a good idea to arrange a visit and my little tour to see what's really done on the ground and how it's done. But certainly what is agreed must be done and executed in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71129	Thank you. Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71130	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm pleased to hear at least a few deadlines, and of course I'll be completely satisfied when all the citizens do it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71131	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Dinko Buric's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71132	Dear Mr. President, I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Madam Prime Minister, the economic crisis has affected all of Croatia and is difficult in every part of it. But it is no secret that it is probably the hardest in Slavonia and Baranja. The three most underdeveloped Croatian counties are Brodo-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavon County, at the bottom of the 16th place is Virovitičko-Posaviska, and in the middle of the development scale on the 12th place Osijek-Baranja County. Knowing all this is difficult to understand decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to measures taken to get out of the economic crisis in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. Madam Prime Minister, I believe you know that Slavonia and Baranja account for 20% of the population and just as much territory of the Republic of Croatia. How then do you explain the fact that despite the above mentioned in your plan of 30 investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia worth 13.8 billion euros that you presented in September last year for the whole of Slavonia and Baranja, you predicted only 950m euros or 6.88% of total investments for the project of the famous and phantom channel Danube – Sava, which has been mentioned since Maria Teresa. And after last year we warned you of such a sad relationship with Slavonia and Baranja as if you were mocking the inhabitants of Slavonia and Baranja. In fact, three weeks ago you announced new public investment projects this time worth $12.8 billion. And instead of using these projects to correct the injustice against Slavonia and Baranja, you and these projects put salt on the wound of the poor and neglected Slavonia. ... Because how else do you interpret the embarrassing fact that, of all these newly presented projects worth $12.8 billion for the whole of Slavonia and Baranja, you predict only 360 million, exactly 2.8%? [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And we still make 20% of the population and territory of the Republic of Croatia. I'd say our people so where will your soul be, Madam Prime Minister? What does Slavonia and Baranja deserve from this motherly relationship? ... Please, Madam Prime Minister, your view of the cause of this whole thing that... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Don't turn me off. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71133	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71134	Your view of the cause of the overall economic crisis in Croatia, as well as the explanation of this relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71135	Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71136	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, your assessments are incorrect that the Government would neglect Slavonia and Baranja, but we have a fundamental principle that we are absolutely equal to everyone, that all projects that are possible and that are realized and of course that are made real in cooperation with cities, municipalities and counties are realised. On the basis of your question, I understand that you absolutely in this whole context do not take obstacles at the local level at which many investors encounter and then in your county. We've got some specific examples we're dealing with right now. It is therefore impossible, therefore, that the Government cannot overcome all obstacles, cannot overcome obstacles if at the county level, or at the level of any city, it does not work in accordance with the basic principle, which is that we all go together to make large investments or smaller investments that are of course sustainable. I'll mention some of the investments from this context you mentioned in the first two quarters. So, surely the Slavonic Ship belongs in Slavonia, I assume that's where you agree. So that's where the construction of an oil terminal in the Luka Slavonski Brod is planned, so it's a huge project worth 150 million kuna. But I'm also talking about projects that are being launched, also cleaning up waste water, i.e. all projects through large projects of Croatian waters related to the entire water, sewerage network but also to water treatment. Here is the project in Brod, worth 210 million kuna, but also a project in the water supply and sewerage network in Osijek, which is also in this package that we have just presented. It would certainly be better to go to the government with initiatives, to go to the government with support of projects that are common and that can be achieved, and I will mention in the end that we have made a decision on the donation of one land right in the area of Osijek-Baranja County and that I recently discussed this with the president of your party when he was at consultations in the Government on the completion of the negotiations, so that it would be good to come there and to sign that agreement and to launch some new investments in that sense. So, in conclusion, it is incorrect and it is false that the Croatian government has any relationship other than the relationship it should have, and that it should do everything that in Slavonia and Baranja are opening jobs, that entrepreneurs have a wide open door for investment, but Mr. MP for it is necessary and that your county and certain cities where you are in power, your party does far more than just go with the humiliation and lunches towards the Croatian government. That's not good. It's necessary for these projects at least two, so I won't talk about tango, because we don't dance tango, we do serious and difficult work, but our doors in government are for all the projects that you think the government could help out wide open.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71137	Thank you. Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71138	Yes, thank you. Madam Prime Minister, I'm not happy with your answer, because obviously you're not just a bad potato salad cook, but you're a very bad accountant. ... /The speaker has been disabled./... All of this you've just confirmed my words. All you add up is 360 million kuna, at 12.8 billion dollars is only 2.8%. But you did not answer... /The speaker excluded./... the economic crisis that has affected not only Slavonia and Baranja but the whole of Croatia is not only the result of the global global crisis as you were saying earlier. The organized crime... /The speaker excluded./... in the highest circles of the government are the Croatian economy... /The speaker excluded./... and have a scale of real disaster. No roads, no railways, no banks, no MORH... /The speaker turned off... /The speaker turned off./... what the Croatian public... /The speaker turned off./... the last days. Mr. President, I'm asking you to do what you need to do, and that's to allow a representative to speak. The speech is the fundamental task of our representative in the Croatian Parliament. Although what the Croatian public is witnessing... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped.//... between the highest of the former, which the current officials of the ruling party increasingly resembles a kind of political reality show... /The speaker excluded./... HDZ's Big Brothers, yeah. The damage the HDZ government has done to the Croatian economy... /The speaker has been excluded./... can be compared to the damage that the central parts of the SDA... /The speaker has excluded./... the monster, the nest of locusts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71139	So come on, please. You can't go on. I take your word, you can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71140	In a similar way... /The speaker turned off. /... the ruling set... /The speaker turned off. /... by leaving the swarm... /The speaker turned off./... In the end,... /The speaker turned off./...and the electoral unit... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71141	Mr. Representative, you have violated several provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You are certainly 5 here multiplied by 5 of the one minute that you used contrary to Article 180(5) did not interrupt the debate after I said that the time had passed to take away the word, so I give you a warning about your behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71142	Mr. Djakic won't help disfellowshipping.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71143	... Let's move on, Mr. Mario Habek will ask the next question. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71144	I'm asking Mrs. Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, do you know how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia were unemployed when you became Prime Minister and how many today?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71145	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Kosor can't be contacted. She's the Prime Minister, as you can't call me now, Mr. Baby, but I'm the president of this session. So please nice these are the elemental things. Here you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71146	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you for this intervention. Of course, you and I and everyone here know who's what, who's chosen for what and who's doing the job, but a lot of us can't do our own political fights, and we can't skip the line that our parents taught us about, so I'm talking about home education, and that's something that makes us different, a lot of us here. So home education is something you can't learn in any school, not at any college, it's something you carry from home, and that includes fundamental patriotism, love for your country, responsibility for your work, responsibility for your country's future. And there are some differences that are clearly impossible to overcome, but nevertheless we will continue to be ladies and gentlemen, we in the Government together with those who support the government in this House are working to achieve in this year all the goals we have outlined, in the year here we mark the 20th anniversary of Croatia's independence despite the fact that some parties and some members of some parties in dramatic years when deciding on the fate of Croatia, the fate of the Croatian people really ran away from this hall with their heads. And what it will look like in the future will always be judged as so far by voters at the polls, but the historical facts about who did what time will remain forever historical facts and some to the pride and some to the shame. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the data is concerned, there were 415 000 unemployed at first. At this time, more than 330,000 at this time in 2003 without the influence of the global economic and financial crisis. What's important at this point when we're fighting for unemployment to be less because it's something that we're particularly focused on is that it's showing up again with little hints, but important positive trends. So, in March 2011, 15737 people from the Institute's records were employed, which is 43% more than in February 2011. So that's something that's good, these indicators say that our efforts are that our efforts can bear fruit and here today is less for 6281 people at the office compared to February 2011. All the trends ahead of us, given the implementation of projects in the employment of the Employment Service, but also of all ministries for this year and for 2012 where we have provided through various projects a billion and a half kuna through projects of different ministries, with these large investment projects still being discussed today. In Dubrovnik, here we are discussing here in Dubrovnik great jobs are being arranged because we have agreed the arrival of large investors from both the United States and this is how it will be slow, but I am safe somewhere by the middle of this year and the number of unemployed still falls significantly, and the number of employees increases. And these are all ladies and gentlemen the fact that there will be a drop in the number of unemployed, that more than 18% will grow last year, that it will be a good tourist year, according to all of us, that we will end negotiations to join the European Union makes the Social Democratic Party particularly unhappy and nervous, but nevertheless we will continue to be committed, determined to do work for the beloved Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71147	Mr. Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71148	When you became Prime Minister, there were 247147 unemployed, and today 336.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... you left almost 100,000 workers without a job. When you became prime minister without a job, there were 13% of the workers, and today, 20% of the workers are out of work. Every day your term on the stock market ends 160 workers, 160 families are left without bread because of you. Mrs. Kosor.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... in every normal country such catastrophic indicators of government work would be sufficient to resign. Please step down on behalf of the citizens, call elections and give citizens the opportunity to choose a new government that will be able to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71149	The question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm referring my question to Mr. Davorin Mlakar. From the local media, I find out that Mr Damir Kajin, acting as president of the County Assembly, signed a decision on urbanization of the land, right after this land was purchased from the city of Vodnjan as unurbanized. It is, of course, the area of Barbariga-Doliner and the town of Vodnjan, and I would like to say that Mr Cain, with his signature, made an enormous profit for the buyer, and after a while he found out that he did not actually know what he was signing. Mr. Minister, have you spent and if you are not planning to carry out an inspection of Mr. Cain's shooting and illegal action and I am interested in whether his ignorance of any criminal responsibility is freed him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71151	Dear MPs, you have asked the question of the decision-making of the County Assembly, which has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration, which was not under administrative supervision in the County of Istria. But since it has some sort of pace of its own to carry out administrative surveillance, we will also be in that county checking out how decisions and consequences can be made by making those decisions. The part relating to the Ministry of Administration's resolution, which is the way and the quality of decision-making, will be checked by the Ministry of Administration and will potentially point to other competent authorities, and you are talking here and about changes in spatial plans to indicate the need for the other ministries or other competent authorities to carry out administrative supervision in their work. I can't guarantee it now within what time, but very soon we'll go to administrative supervision in the Istrian County. Although it may have been the ignorance of Mr Cain that I would have told such a good reason in other activities if the President of the Assembly had signed something because of ignorance it would not release him from the responsibility he bears by the very fact that he performs a high duty in the county and then, of course, assumes both the obligation to make decisions and sign such documents. We'll be in administrative custody soon enough, so we'll give you a more detailed answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71152	Thank you. Mrs. Buterin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71153	Your Honor, Minister, I am pleased with your response. In fact, I think that everyone should be responsible for their actions, especially those people who actually participate, or act in public responsibilities. I'd say this is a school, actually a real example of political corruption. However, what has been done unfortunately in this decision, therefore by subsequent urbanisation of a million and 100 thousand square meters, which has favored the buyer, unfortunately, this cannot be returned. In this, but also in other urbanisations carried out in Istria on a similar principle, individuals have provided themselves with the benefit that can be measured in millions of euros. Of course, the same money has been damaged by local administration, but also by the Republic of Croatia. But of course Mr. Caine as then president of the County Assembly as he says he didn't know any of it. The truth was made and signed by decisions to support it, but everything was hidden from it. It was done without his knowledge, and ultimately he doesn't even know what he signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71154	Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71155	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Croatian Government with associates, ministers and ministers. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Namely, we know that former SDP Mayor of Gareshnica Milan Sužnjevic abused his position and powers so that he paid 58,000 kuna on his own account and on behalf of former President of the City of SDP Mr. Wilko Pajan. Of course, he showed it in town as a donation to strangers. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, on several occasions he ordered that such money be paid in private accounts, in which amount and size. But again, he justified it as a donation, an ongoing donation to the SDP. I beg you, have you exercised control over this incriminating shop in the city of Gareshnica?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71156	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71157	So, now the former mayor of the SDP, Garesnica, has only led private court disputes over irregularities that were referred to by council members. The Department of Administration didn't carry out inspection in the city. However, I must point out that it is the use of budgetary resources for whose supervision is the competent Ministry of Finance, i.e. the State Audit Office, and they will talk about the facts on which possible accounts have been paid by the city budget or municipal budget. As far as the Department of Administration is concerned, we will now follow this report. It concerns the way in which decisions are taken and whether, in the legal manner, the mayor made decisions during his term of office, among other things, on the use of the funds he had the right to use, we will see in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the State Audit Office whether he was doing it in a legal or illegal manner. I say it one more time. He has already conducted court proceedings in part on private charges because he was suspected of using budget funds beyond those allowed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71158	Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71159	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. We know in the Bjelovar-Belova County that certain criminal proceedings against other actions are committed on it. From Mr. Dragovan we learned that he did not know about this creativity of Mr. Suznjević. However, I am very sorry that Mr. Doric did not ask the question and take advantage of this stage. But apparently, he was provoked by so many questions about Mr. Chacic. However, this very government has shown, namely when we feel that it is at our door, then we feel offended. But this government in the fight against corruption, crime has shown that it is not necessary to watch whose door and which party it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71160	Thank you. And as 40, the last question will be asked by Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71161	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, how much has the foreign debt increased since when do you manage the government?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71162	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71163	Your Honor, Mr. President, I consider that since I have answered a very comprehensive question that has already been raised today in terms of debt. I mentioned not only foreign, but also public debt. So I was talking about all the elements I mean very exhausting, very detailed. She talked about our debt ratio compared to other countries, or the European Union, with an average. So, I recommend here, then, to Mrs. MPs, that since she was sitting here, I believe she also heard that she took that information that I've already presented as relevant data here and I believe that you'll be pleased with it. I would certainly be pleased that all the time your president of your party has been here, who has called me here persistently to come to the Parliament even though he must have known that the invitation of the Prime Minister may also be made by the President of the Croatian Parliament, and at the invitation of the President of the Croatian Parliament then the Prime Minister comes to the Parliament and I would certainly come. I am sorry that here he did not endure even the current morning to listen to what I have to say to my colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it certainly was in line with his inability to sit in one place for a long time, which he had already complained about publicly, we had the opportunity to read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71164	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71165	Well, of course I'm not happy with the answer, because you didn't answer my question, first of all. And I'm afraid you didn't even understand what I'm asking you, because I asked a question about foreign debt, not the central debt of the state, which was the previous question. You may be able to use these brochures, which are official brochures of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, from which we have also extracted our data, so I advise you to read some of these documents. It's fascinating what, with which peace and with the cold... Here it is, standard practice for colleagues from HDZ. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] So with which peace and cold you answer this question of borrowing, which is a very current topic in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is, most people find it really hard to imagine such great numbers at all. But the problem is that you are not the majority, but the Prime Minister who should never sleep at all, bearing in mind the fact that foreign debt has increased from 39.2 billion euros in 2009 to 45.8 billion euros in Sanader's post.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71166	Thank you. So you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71167	It's been 626 days since you've managed the government, the debt has increased by 6 billion and 600 million euros in that time, which means you've owed this country more than 10.5m euros a day. Every day, that's not the end of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71169	New Minister Dalic as soon as he exits... us for... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71170	Thank you. Lock it down, please. Lock it down. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm closing this debate up in the morning, because it's a big afternoon. But the continuation of the session at 15 and 30 hours, with the item of the agenda of the Amendment Act and the additions of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. number 742. There. Well, that's nice and sweet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71234	We're moving on with the session. - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes is an emergency procedure. Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and justice. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Tatjana Vučetic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. The need for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes was firstly conditioned by the termological and substantive alignment with the new Criminal Procedure Act, which has been applied since 1 July 2009 in the cases in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, and its full application in other criminal cases is expected since 01.09.2011. The law on criminal proceedings requires that the concept of a completely different position of the main entities of criminal proceedings be brought into line with those conceptal changes in the criminal procedure system, in accordance with the provisions contained in the procedural provisions, and thus the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. Amendments and additions to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes could be divided into 2 groups. The first group shall make changes redefining the position of legal person representatives in criminal proceedings. According to the new Criminal Procedure Act, jurisdiction has been amended and powers of the State Attorney's Office have been extended in the previous proceedings. As a result, it is proposed that, in addition to the court, the authorisation to establish the identity of the legal person's representative and his authority to represent him, there is also a state lawyer who acts before the indictment is brought. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on criminal proceedings. Furthermore, it is proposed that, apart from persons who cannot be designated, or appointed as a representative of a legal person, who, in the same procedure, is called as a witness and who are subject to criminal proceedings for the same criminal offence, or the defendant of the defendant responsible person cannot be designated as a representative of a legal person in a criminal proceedings against him. The reason for this amendment is obvious and it is obvious that the possible conflict of interest of the defendant and accused legal person is in the process, and there is no justification for the legal person representing the defendant of the defendant responsible person. In view of the fact that it is up to the prosecution of a body governed by the procedure of a State lawyer to amend paragraph 2 in such a way as not to bring a representative of a legal person on its own within a legal period of 8 days, the President of the competent court shall decide, at the request of the body conducting the proceedings. In the second group there are terminology and numerical alignments with the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law. Due to the specificity of the application of the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. due to the current parallelism of the application of the procedural provisions of the Old and New Law on Criminal Procedure, so to speak, which parallelism will last until 01/09/2011, the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes shall be prescribed that those laws in criminal proceedings under the jurisdiction of the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime shall apply immediately, or on the eighth day of publication in the "National Journal" while its application in other proceedings would relate to the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. 01 September 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71236	Thank you. The Legislative Committee, the Justice Department? I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honoring State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons above all because it is also a harmonisation, as the State Secretary has said, with our amended laws – the Law on Criminal Procedure, then the introduction of a personal identification number. However, as it is an emergency procedure, there is something more we can say about being a thing. What we expected at the SDP club was this extraordinary opportunity to introduce some things after what we are already here in 2003 for the first time in our criminal law legislation to criminal responsibility for legal persons in this regard, given the growing need where legal persons often figure out as real criminal organisations and some things changes, i.e. sharpened. However, time is certainly waiting for changes to happen in this regard. In fact, a long time before the adoption, so in 2003, when we first install criminal responsibility for legal persons, somehow it was a principle because there was a lot of division in the theory of whether legal persons were capable of committing a criminal act. In the former system, it was thought that they were not and even Roman law led heated debates as to whether society, whether a legal person could commit a crime. However, the opinion prevailed in all legislation that there is a strong criminal potential for legal persons as well as for natural persons. Finally, the introduction of criminal responsibility for legal persons into our criminal law and practice was accompanied by the legal property of the EU acquis communautaire, the second Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests of the EU and the Conventional Law of the Council of Europe, in particular by the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, as stated in the assessment of the situation of this draft law. The fight against corruption and organised crime is no longer, unfortunately, at that level of street gangs we could see in some movies. What was collected in the 1990s, this original accumulation of dirty capital sought its ability to wash through financial flows, through the form that would get legal norm, legal form and function as a legal legal entity. Therefore, legal persons who commit a criminal offence many of them unfortunately have been installed just to commit crimes, no matter how much their legal norm or action and legal form seemingly prima facie has quite legal forms. The question of some legal persons who organized themselves or formed themselves as legal entities without such intent later in some environment has been given this very criminal will. We see the latest cases, recent cases and the latest of those who are already on the charge of hard suspicion that many companies have been formed just to suck up state money. Of course, such a thing is not possible without the cooperation of the narrow links between politics and such companies, of course, in a direct relationship somewhere, and somewhere under the high patronage of the ruling ones. The question of legal liability is the question of the liability of certain persons, natural persons from responsible positions in legal persons. The penalties provided for are fines and death penalty for a legal person i.e. liquidation of a legal person. Political parties and units of local self-government and state are not naturally subject to this most drastic sanction. However, the responsibility of political parties, their actions, should certainly be strengthened because they have been formed to work for the common good. Therefore, in the area in which the sanctions are to be taken, it must be adequate. As FIMI MEDIA did business, here is now a heavy charge or suspicion of Medikol, so where we see that companies in most of their activities exactly and most of their capital, or get acquired in a suspicious, suspicious, or somewhere we can say justifiably suspiciously criminal. Some companies are formed I've already said that, but I'll repeat only ad hoc are forming to do some pre-arranged business. These are the jobs where they got certain contracts, where they already got jobs according to fixed tenders, where these jobs were public, but the deals were secret under the table. And when the job is done, and that's usually where the dirtiest shape is to buy land. And the question arises here, we wonder at the SDP club and still the inertness of the Money Laundering Office, which allows companies with minimal capital to be set up, and then very quickly, they're inexplicably creating a huge, huge profit. No one knows how by what miracle they've been getting these jobs. Of course, I repeat that something has been revealed before the courts what was suspected, something is likely to be discovered. So, the contract of setting up a tender, getting a job, in short, have such a one benefit to deal with the state, to achieve an unexplainably large profit in a monopoly position with a minimum capital. When we were already far away in 2003, not only did we propose but we were in a position to pass the law by amending the Penal Code, we introduced a central criminal act which is the most important anti-corruption act that is missing from our criminal law, which is abuse of the rights of the believers. Unfortunately, here are the current rulings against it. But it also encourages the preparation of amendments to the Penal Code where this central crime, which has just been designed to respond to new management conditions, complex forms of economic crime, and to tell the market way of business. Our criminal legislation in the area of economic crime still has some socialistic characteristics. We still don't have this kind of crime, so then Mrs. Kosor tells certain directors, the presidents of the state-owned companies, encourages them to close contracts. There is even room for such reasoning, but why persistently reject what we and as an opposition have proposed, and what we had, you have not voted as a majority in favour of this criminal act, where it would be perfectly clear which behaviours in the economy are allowed, which are not, which represent criminal behaviour, which are purely the risk of the business of a particular firm. There is still the impression that what is being processed has some kind of political connotation, which we do not need. Therefore, we have been late for 8, 9 years and many things would have been clearer in Croatia and many behaviours would have been contained if you had listened here and if we had had had had had this criminal act of abuse of the right of the believer, where it would not now be called the State's Attorney and the State's Attorney's Office to help them say in advance whether this contract is valid or not and that it is hiding behind such a contract, whether it is really within the limits of business activity or behind it something else that has criminal significance. Also something that the legal person puts in an unequal position, it's a pay failure, you were also against it. As an opposition, we have proposed a non-payment of wages as a criminal offence. Unfortunately, we were responsible by the government, and a few months ago, "Frequent amendments to the Penal Code would lead to legal uncertainty." So whose legal uncertainty do I ask you? Legal persons create and are the drivers of our economic development. But it needs to stop those who have the sole goal of using state money above all, have a monopoly, have the privilege of doing business with the state, or have gone rogue, and at the expense of real crimes. Question for the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Application of this Law, the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons will remain a dead letter on paper if its application is based only on the reeds of application. The police, the state's attorney's office and the courts. It's late, they're performing a post-festum. What matters to us, which is to prevent, to prevent such behaviours, that the state will not capitulate against such dangers, that it has such an office which is also the name for preventing money laundering. Is it possible in Croatia, here is the former prime minister who founded several companies with clean money that no one asked him where he got the cash. No one asked him the question that he formed such a company, poured that money into them. That's why it's the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, to knock on the door and ask where that money came from, because if someone, because it's everywhere in the world, is just lighting red lights, if someone's forming a company with huge, suddenly huge means of getting out of nowhere, then it's a question that he has to answer right now to people in the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. But the same is the suspect of the one who, with minimal capital, establishs the company, and then the basnoslovous assets generates profit or profit. So these are already obvious signs that something is wrong, but we have no answer. We have a few cases that we received from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but we have no concrete answers to these questions. Also, the question is what we were interested in at the SDP club, which is again what the Slovenian Finances write about, is their prominent weekly, owned by the Zadar port. Is it possible that one person who claims that she did not buy for herself, who has a minimum income of some kind, can buy a Zadar port, which does not in itself matter how significant the concession is and that is the primary concession that was obtained under privileged conditions where it was just received by former employees who later alienated. Therefore, by referring to these important things where we are today facing that criminal organizations are not some kind of street gang that goes with some kind of baseball bats and joints, although unfortunately there is, that criminal organisations today are organisations that operate through legal forms, but behind which there is no legality. I'll just remind myself that what we used to watch in the movies that it came to us and that the real mob came first in Italy and America when these mobsters, after they folded their money in a dirty way by selling guns, drugs and other things, by corruption, crime and when they took off their baseball caps and put on Boss's suits, when they became so-called. Reputable citizens have become the most dangerous criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71238	Thank you. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with his associates. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. This is seemingly one technical amendment to the harmonisation of this law with provisions already passed and existing laws with which it must be harmonised for the sake of effective and effective application. The Croatian Democratic Community and the government of the Croatian Democratic Community and this parliamentary majority have confirmed the adoption of a series of laws so far passed their firm commitment to the harsh fight against all corruption crimes, but also against the serious crimes of organised crime. As a result, since the new Criminal Procedure Act, since the USKOK Law, these amendments have been made since the extension of the catalogues of jumping offences, which are carried out under a special procedure and for which the USKOK is responsible, from a series of provisions on the confiscation of property benefit acquired by criminal activity in a significantly wider scope than those previously regulated by the laws. And we don't need to talk a lot about it here and describe sensationally how, in what way it's possible to commit crimes as picturesque as it looks. It is up to us to bring here to the Croatian Assembly such laws that they are a good tool for the bodies that have to carry out the prosecution. We often talked about why there was once no success in processing serious crimes, corruption and organised crime so that they could have success today. That is why it was necessary to fully adapt and regulate legislation in order for these institutions to have as I have said a good tool, but also to enable them both materially and humanly. This law was indeed there in 2003 when it was brought to a new one in Croatia, it was really debated here in the Assembly at that time, it was discussed by the professional legal public because all of us until then had legal theory at their disposal that criminally could be held accountable and be the perpetrator and have the ability to commit a criminal act exclusively by a natural person. Today, after eight years of application of this law, it has been accepted that the crime can be committed and it can be sanctioned and a legal person, and thus Croatia has joined here and as it has accepted the legal gain of the European Union, but has also joined modern criminal law. So, since this is primarily about termological harmonisation, that is, the appointment of the Penal Code is a real name as the Penal Code is called. It is a matter of introducing a personal identification number as a necessary identification mark, which now states that there should be both in the indictment and in the judgment and the publication of judgments, etc. in a way that is consistent with the new Criminal Procedure Act under which the State's attorney has been given new powers and powers, and then it should also be incorporated into the text of this law. Of course we don't repeat the details because that's what the secretary of state has already said in detail. In addition, transitional and final provisions governing the relationship between the new Criminal Code and the former Criminal Procedure Act and the former Criminal Procedure Act where duality is applied, this is settled in an appropriate manner and in these transitional provisions. And here we've heard it, and it's not good to say it like that because the public may be confused about it. Thus, it is said that the majority of today did not want to accept, or pass, any law, so today it is not clear what is allowed and what is not allowed in this country to do as legal persons can do. It is simply not true because in Croatia as a democratic state, the principle of zero crimene sine lays zero foam son of a lie. Therefore, we have a valid Penal Code. What this Penal Code has established and designated as a criminal offence is a criminal offence and can as such be sanctioned and nothing more and nothing more. Therefore, there is no concern for economic operators to operate in accordance with the law and nothing which is not prescribed by the Penal Code as a criminal offence can and cannot be held accountable. Here's the end, since it's part of the SDP club that they're worried about, tortures, etc. We at the HDZ Club don't torture these things, but we're tortured and we work hard and the government to make provisions in all laws, to bring them together in a way that the bodies that fight crime and corruption should have the right tools to do so. And who owns Zadar or any port or any commercial company should not be guessing or persistently referring to questions from this constituency. There's a court register. The court register shall include owners of companies unless it is a secret company, so by clicking on the Internet, clicking on the mouse can immediately reveal who the owner is. And if there's any doubt about the acquisition of that property, then there's a state's attorney's office and a BODGE where that suspicion can be reported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71240	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71241	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the law on, therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes with the Final Proposal of the Law. And what should be said in the introduction that the agenda of this session is filled with amendments and additions to laws that are in fact in accordance with some other laws, most often with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law with which we begin this session today or the afternoon after the current morning, which is the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, in fact, represents a harmonisation of nomotechnical and content with the new Criminal Procedure Act. We welcome this activity by the Ministry of Justice and consider it necessary and necessary. However, we think it would be good to introduce a system into these cleaning matters in such a way that when we amend a law or make a whole new one, it should be in advance to get to know the MPs and to indicate which other laws are being touched by this amendment, that is, this new law. And these laws, which are touched by the law that we are already passing at the next session of the Croatian Parliament, should be included in the agenda and should be amended and complemented within a short period of time. The new Criminal Procedure Act was passed in 2008. In one part, it has been in preparation since mid-2009, in part so-called Jumping objects, and we are only today intervening in one segment of related legislation. As indicated by the very introduction of the provisions of these amendments and the addition of the laws proposed in a dozen articles are understandable and acceptable to us, and we also particularly welcome the extension of the possible conflict of interest of the accused person and the accused legal person, as set out in Article 4. As practically the only essential novelty within the basic law from what I have said, it is clear that the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will support this law. However, here I would still open a debate on a subject which we from the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club often talk about in the opening discussions on laws coming from the Government before this Parliament. It is about the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues which are regulated by law and which follow the very terms of the law. In this case, I would like to remind myself of all the contradictions that followed the adoption of the basic law of 2003, and some of you sitting here will remember, for example, Mr. Seks, Mr. Leko, Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, for sure that the law was brand new when it was passed. There were a lot of issues, and that law went into three readings. As the said gentlemen will remember, the HDZ club voted against and did not support the law. Thus, the law passed 8 years without any substantial change, except for the minor changes in 2007, when fines were increased. I wonder what the experience of applying this law is. How many cases were in the procedure? How many legal persons are sanctioned under this law and what kind of punishment? All of this is missing in the opening explanation. The issue is becoming even more current at the moment when the former prime minister and president of the ruling political party are in the custody of another country, and is awaiting extradition for the multitude of serious crimes committed. As we know, the provisions of this law prescribe that political parties, as well as local self-government units, are exempt from the possibility of abolishing a legal person, or banning activities, but they can be determined by a fine and the confiscation of property benefits acquired by criminal activity. As we know in Article 5, the responsibility of the legal person is based on the guilt of the responsible person, and Article 23 says that the offence of the legal person and the responsible person will be carried out in a single procedure and one verdict, on the criminal offences of the responsible person who is detained in the Austrian prison, we read almost every day, we know almost everything, at least what is being placed on us, what else we do not know, and about the criminal liability of the legal person we are not talking about almost anything. It seems, therefore, that one of these laws should certainly indicate the experience of applying this law and whether the law has fulfilled the purpose of its adoption. At that time, we would certainly be much easier to support if we had enough arguments. And something that is personal to me in the eyes of Article 36, which, the fundamental law, which says that fines can be imposed, therefore also to local, regional self-government and political parties and trade unions and the withdrawal of illegal property, but the measures of caution against the legal person cannot be taken, and that is to say, the prohibition to carry out certain activities and jobs, the prohibition of business with the users of the state and local budget, the prohibition of obtaining the authorisation of concessions and subsidies. I have a dilemma. Trade unions are registered under the Association Act. The unions here are particularly isolated from other associations. I would like to hear from the promoters an explanation why unions, therefore, are being treated under the Association Act, and why only unions here are excluded from these precautionary measures. And that concludes the debate. By repeating it again, it would be much easier for us to support in the finality, because in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retireds this proposal to amend and supplement the law, however, it would be much easier for us to do so in the future with detailed explanations, with clear arguments, what effects so far the fundamental law that has been produced in the overall Croatian legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71242	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71243	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in an emergency procedure. In light of the adoption of the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes of 2003 and the 2007 novel, the Republic of Croatia has brought the questions of criminal liability of legal persons into line with the legal property of the European Union. The proposed amendments and additions to the law are primarily in line with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, which has been in force since 1 July 2009 in matters within the jurisdiction of the USKOK and which has been fully applied in other criminal cases since 1 September 2011. The abandonment of the justice system and the transition to a state-of-the-art investigation have significantly altered the role of the judge and the state's attorney in criminal proceedings. The first group of amendments are amendments which redefine the position of legal person representatives in criminal proceedings, in accordance with the amended jurisdiction and the extended powers of the state lawyer in the previous proceedings, it is proposed that, in addition to the court, the authority for representation shall also have a state lawyer who is acting before the indictment is brought. In addition, it is proposed that the defendant of the defendant cannot be designated as a representative of the legal person in the criminal proceedings against him. The examination of the representative of the legal person is different from the examination of the defendant as a natural person, and it is therefore proposed that the statement of the representative be entered in the survey report. The second group of amendments are termological and numerical alignments with material or procedural criminal provisions such as the introduction of a term of discussion, the introduction of a personal and identification number and others. I will personally support the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons to Criminal Crimes, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71244	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I must say, I was pleased to read this proposal, to include this bill of law, to amend, to propose a law on legal persons' liability for criminal offences. It may sound strange, but that's right. The reason is that, about two months ago, I filed a criminal complaint against the ruling party, precisely on the basis of the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, and I must say that most or almost all in the political sphere had no idea what this law was, and even less that this law could apply to political parties, unlike the people of the economy, who knew very well what this law prescribed for economic operators. Which shows that the political parties the hour is legal, the hour is not, but as it suits them. So what's fundamental here? First, the legal person is also responsible for the actions of the responsible person. So the political party is responsible for its president's actions. That's number one. So we already said the political party is a legal person. That's two. And the only difference between economic operators and political parties is that political parties, together with units of local self-government, cannot be deleted, i.e. abolished, can only be fined in cash if they have achieved an illegal property benefit. The only one who can wipe out political parties is that, or forbid, it is the Constitutional Court, and I hope that such practices in Croatia will not be. So, let's just take the case that the party president doesn't have to be connected to what's going on today, means getting cars, not knowing who's the financier of those cars. Or, say, hiring people fictitiously in state-owned companies, and then they just happen to be working in a political party. Or bring money bags and fills with black party funds thanks to which the party then achieves success in the election and retains or conquers power. Of course, the question is, now we return, whether only the responsible person, or party president, is responsible, and then everything comes down to him and then can be read in the media in the regime and non-region as the Prime Minister and the party was or was responsible and a legal person, or a political party for everything that the president did. Especially if the people in that legal person take the money chests and return it from these black funds and return it to the competent state authorities. Of course, the conclusion is clear. Since this is how the vice president looks at me, I am more trying to express myself plastically and express myself unrelated to the current political events in Croatia. So I speak generally in Croatia, Zambia, Libya or Mexico anyway. So whether it will ultimately be only the responsible person in the legal person or eventually the legal person will have to return what he illegally acquired and pay a certain amount of money. I hope that these changes on how legal persons who do not have any material assets or assets will not be applied immediately and in a case that could be opened in Croatia, and I think that even so far, such a case has been not to be initiated against such legal persons. So, all of what's contained in the bill is acceptable. I hope that this will also be an incentive to the competent state authorities, the State Attorney's Office and the USKOK that if there were certain legal obstacles or concerns that they would be removed and that indeed this small contribution to the fight against crime and corruption, a small contribution to strengthening democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia would be recognised and that my little criminal application based on this law on the responsibility of legal persons for criminal offences would finally be taken into work and eventually be something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71246	Thank you very much. There are various shows or movies, says every coincidence is complete – how? ... Any similarity is random and unintentional. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, with all due attention, I haven't been able to figure out who this might be alluded to. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71247	Thank you very much. This valuable and useful law would not have been, it would not have been passed in 2003, had it not been part of EU harmonisation. This is a requirement, therefore, to adapt our legislation to EU legislation, so this practice had to come to us as well. Here is a good example of how the EU acts positively before we become its members, how the accession process itself brings some kind of benefits. Now, if we move or move away from ourselves this theoretical debate whether legal persons can do and under what conditions a criminal offence, and the position of the European judicial system is that they can do so by legal persons and we accept it, we ask ourselves the question when legal persons can do so or when it happens most often. There must be a string between the two legal entities of which one is the center of power. Now, if it's the government, if it's the ruling party, but in any case it has to be the center of power. FIMI MEDIA, Medikol – FIMI MEDIA was a small company for PR services like hundreds, hundreds. But that legal person couldn't be involved in committing crimes, nor would he even be able to do something like that if there was no other party, if there wasn't a power center, if there wasn't another legal person. It's the government that allows it, which all public companies say, the ministries all at FIMI MEDIA. There's got to be a rope in here. It's similar to this Medikol, here's what we're reading right now, it's impossible for someone to have such a business success if they haven't signed a contract with HZZO that he's going to be doing checks that he's going to charge to that same HZZO. Its contract is the basis for obtaining bank credit, for expanding empires. A legal person must be in contact with the power center. This law does not apply to the government of the local self-government unit, so the government is not in that sense a legal person within the meaning of this law, it is a political body. However, the local self-government unit can be punished as well as the parties exclusively monetary, cannot be liquidated, cannot be shut down. It is probably good that it would not be good if the government could be shut down because it would then mean that one representative of the state, one symbol of sovereignty, could not be abolished by municipalities or cities. The parties, as we know, can only be abolished by the Constitutional Court, but there are some other penalties, some other forms in which justice can still be done. Here, let's imagine a party, I know it's hard, a healthy mind it's hard. But here's for the purposes of this debate, just for the purposes of this debate, let's imagine a party of such a party, really hard to imagine in which the president of that party would say to his deputy, here's a bag of money, the next election is the only way you're going to get them with 2/3 of the illegal, stolen money, because that's the only way to win the election. He says that to his deputy, that his deputy puts that bag of money in the party safe and that bag of money in the party safe for a year. Only when I say it hard again for the purposes of this debate is it by chance that some witness typed it or the defendant, then after a year this bag is carried to the police at the State's Attorney's office, but where he's going. The problem is law enforcement. The law we have enough. If such a thing were to happen, this theoretical story of mine would be blocked in any civilized country by the party's account on the same day. Why? In order to ensure the claims of those who have been deceived, those public companies from which money has been sucked and transferred to that bag, because these damage claims will come once, the party cannot be liquidated, it can only be done by the Constitutional Court, but the protection of the rights of the stolen can be ensured. So in any civilized country, if something like this happened, this amazing story, a fairy tale, a strange story, an incomprehensible, healthy mind, would be incomprehensible, that person, that president or president of the party would still be prime ministers in their countries, completely unimaginable. That's what people wouldn't believe if they told them it was really happening. But that party's account would be blocked on the same day. Therefore, we have laws. The laws can be repaired as small as this one, and it's all very helpful, but what we lack as a state is the application of these laws. What is evident, what is completely self-conceived in order to block the account of such a party by applying these and other existing laws, it does not happen in Croatia. Unfortunately, this will not happen until elections occur, until new authorities are elected. That's why citizens are looking for elections, because it's totally obvious to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71248	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71249	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, referring to my fellow Stazic's debate, I would say that this idea he has now presented was one precautionary measure that this is not happening, that it is simply not possible to work that way anymore. And that would be logical in a country where there are laws and laws that have certain purposes and logic. This law was passed well in 2003, but of course it can be improved and complemented, but unfortunately when you see the amazing situations that are happening around us, it may be necessary. Here's a suggestion. There was now mentioned a small company which was exclusively and was founded perhaps not just for that reason, but the heavy activity was, in all this, what is heard is sucking money out of public companies and states, and it is normal for such a company to be shut down. But there are also a lot of larger companies that engage in such shops, which can also be committed by crimes that make it impossible to capture them all and find them all. Perhaps someone will knowingly enter such arrangements, earn hundreds of millions of kunas, and if they find it in a certain percentage, and if they sanction it in some criminal act, it will also be for profit. That's why I think this one would say a heavy activity or a heavy acquisition in the law it says if it's for that firm to shut down then, I think we should step up this if any acquisition comes from corruption, corruption from public companies, from state-owned companies, public money. It means that it is known even though the company is operating with a billion kuna and if there is a profit, I don't know how much and if there are other jobs that are not related to the business of the state and public money, that if sanctioned and punished for the crime of corruption and the illegal acquisition of money related to it, it can be abolished. That would be a real punishment, because in this situation where there is a limit of 5 million kuna, I believe there will be those who will play and say maybe we won't be able to tell us everything, maybe it'll go away, maybe most of what we steal, or what we get non-transparently, and we'll pay 5 million kuna, we'll pay back the damage that the state finds out we've done, but most of it will be left with us. That's why I think it should definitely include what I said if it's about corruption that the company can be liquidated whether or not it's been working too hard or not, or if it's not money from those crimes. I absolutely agree that a precaution should be introduced as for a natural person there is a precautionary measure against non-repealing, whether it is a responsible person in the company so he can repeat or be mayor. We have at this point, it also sounds like an incredible situation, but we have mayors who are suspects, who have admitted themselves that they have been doing corrupt acts, and continue to perform the mayor's duties. So there's a latent possibility that they'll repeat the crime, maybe not in the situation they were in before, but they're responding and managing public money and there's a possibility that they'll repeat the crime, and they're still in a position to do it. It's of course amazing that this is happening, but it's happening in our country. But what should be prevented, possibly by law, is that those legal persons cannot perform certain activities until they have proved themselves or are blocked from working for certain activities so that potential offences are not repeated because there is always the possibility that until the verdict to punish is handed down, until the ban on carrying out those activities, that company makes a further who knows how much damage. One more thing, and I don't think it's covered by the law, especially when it comes to corruption and it's very hard to prove. You know, when you're avoiding the Public Procurement Act, he's not on his own a criminal offence, but he's being sanctioned if you haven't filed a tender as a violation and he needs to prove that there was some kind of deal and corruption, and then he goes under the penalty of a crime. In the case of public procurement, if the legal person is involved, I think the same should be succumbed to in some way at least sanctioning in that part that he can no longer work with public enterprises, with counties or with the state. So that's not possible under this law right now. And finally, of course, regardless of what there is an exception for, so okay, it's normal that you can't lift a city or a municipality but there is the possibility of an imaginary situation like counterpart Stazic said that a party is founded, it doesn't have to be a national party, it can be a party in a city. Let's imagine that it's one city where the mayor and the entrepreneur and the party are founded so that he can stay in power with the party and run easier in the elections, but there's not enough moral personality to distinguish what's public, and what's private and centered himself, he's giving himself jobs from the city, he says, so normally that the entrepreneur is there to earn, and what I'm mayor doesn't matter. Let's imagine this situation, and set up a party and, of course, entrepreneurs who work the building, and perhaps even its companies finance the party, encourage activities, and this party goes to elections and possibly wins what term because we are in a country that has several, or not several, but 10 electoral units and when you divide Croatia into 10 it is possible to end up in the Parliament. In such a situation where the party is founded with that intention to easily come into a position of conflict of interest, when it is used to combat interest and possibly potential irregularities. I'm not saying that this is happening at this point, but if it is possible, it would have to be possible to end such a party and I don't see why in this law it's an exception to the possibility of abolishing the party if with that motive, of course I'm not saying it again, but rather that it's an imaginary example, that this party is simply abolished and that it doesn't exist anymore. So given the experiences that can happen and that have happened, I think we should do a little bit of this law and step up, and on the other hand, of course, someone mentioned it in their debate, see how many and what provisions have been applied so far and how many and what amounts have been punished by legal persons. Yes, of course they were punished by the laws as prescribed but I am particularly interested in whether with the fine that a legal person and a ban on the activity of a possible criminal offence, especially from the domain of this one that I said was a potential new business with either public undertakings or cities, municipalities or state budget. So it would be nice to see that analysis, and it would be good to see that kind of information when it changes laws like this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71250	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71251	We are moving ladies and gentlemen to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. 1. Final proposal for a law amending amendments to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 742. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. Since there's something wrong with this electronic system, please? Did it work? It worked, okay. Then let's get involved and vote on this final bill. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? For the final proposal of this law, the majority of votes were accepted 82 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71252	We're going to the next point 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Explanation, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 729 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees of Justice and Law. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zoran Piculjan will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is yet another harmonisation of laws, special laws, procedural laws, laws that have material and procedural norms with the new, now a year and a few days old, the Law on General Administrative Procedure. In fact, it is another legislative intervention aimed at standardising administrative behaviour, the conduct of administrative authorities in almost all specialised administrative areas, and therefore one such harmonisation has been carried out here on matters of local jurisdiction, hearings of parties and appeal proceedings. However, the law is also time-consistent with the provisions of the Law on the City of Zagreb and ultimately it has introduced its solutions and alignment with the changes that took place in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 2008 relating to the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in which it is precisely defined in which way and which committees are competent in this procedure. Such a solution and minimum legislative intervention have in fact ensured general procedural, general procedural norms functioning in this particular area, but also a relatively extensive specialist process instrumentation has been left, as the expropriation is one of such specific and complex administrative areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71254	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pension Party will support this bill. In the introduction we heard the basic idea of amending this law is standardisation in the administrative procedure and one cleanup since the old Law on the Privileges should have been given to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on the Economy. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has resulted in 4 committees, and this formulation is excellent in this draft law, which is that previous opinion is given by committees in whose work is the area of promotion, regulation of space, and promotion of economic life. It is good to have such important decisions, and it is absolutely safe to enter into a group of very important and responsible decisions, that Parliament, i.e. Parliament, is involved through its competent parliamentary working body, through the institute of previous opinions. And for this reason, the Croatian People's Party club, Croatia's retired parties, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71256	Thank you. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the draft law amending the Law on Immunity. It's a very short bill. So, apart from weather compliance with the Law on the City of Zagreb, as well as a series of other laws that we have and we will have these days on the agenda is compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure for the reasons that this is one of the conditions for closing Chapter 23. We've heard here already that maybe this should've been solved in a different way with one general norm not to get in the way of changes to so many laws. This is, of course, something that could have been discussed a long time ago, which is about a legal or legislative practice. Therefore, that the administrative procedure could have been regulated in a single law and that it was not in fact allowed for specific laws which, on the basis of which administrative procedures and procedures are handled specifically by their own provisions but very often, in a similar or identical way, as well as by the roof law on administrative procedure. So, simply those provisions were I'd say, dare say unnecessary. But since legal practice, legislative practice was not so, so now we have a situation after the amendment of the roof law on administrative procedure that certain provisions are different or terminological, so they need to be harmonised. Or according to the new approach, they are actually judged unnecessary as we are now seeing in this proposal, under which a series of provisions are actually deleted as unnecessary because they have already been studied by the General Law on Administrative Procedure. There was once an objection on the committee, namely whether the provision of Article 9(4) amending the statement in relation to the parliamentary provisions, so that they are no longer referred to the name of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but that a general principle is introduced, which means the boards of the Croatian Parliament, in which the area of promotion and arrangement of space is in the interest of effective use and of the board in which there is a partial area of coordination and improvement of economic life. Whether this will lead to a misunderstanding in the application of which the parliamentary committees would then be involved. However, we believe that this is a good provision, however, because the boards of the Croatian Parliament are being set up and their part-round is being determined by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which may and should be changed in which case they should then be re-infected in the legal text. In this way it is a defining norm which regardless of business changes can then be applied. Here, of course, and it's good to keep this provision in force in the law of expropriation. Therefore, one parliamentary control in the determination of interest, of that interest to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. public interest which is not already established by law, and for the reason that the non-violence of ownership is a constitutional category and only exceptionally in accordance with the law can then be limited or excluded, of course, by the procedure provided for by the law. Given the changes in the structure and organisation of the administrative trial, we can expect these changes to go now in this procedure due to Chapter 23. must be carried out as an emergency procedure. But we certainly expect further changes to this law given the jurisdiction of the County Court now that it will certainly be transferred to the now newly established Administrative Courts of First Instance. And I would therefore, since, unlike this previous law that we have discussed and which has not had a change here today, we are talking about the sixth amendment of this law, and here I appeal to the Proposer that these intended and necessary changes should not then be in the form of a change, but that a whole new law should be proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71258	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Only two problems or two expectations that I had when I saw that it was addressed in the procedure of amending this Law which unfortunately the draft law does not solve, and we witnessed in Croatia possibilities and real malversions and problems caused by the part of the extradition process. The first problem is the market value, Article 50 of the Law, which speaks about the market value of real estate land that is subject to the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I must remind you that we had cases in Croatia where individual units of local or regional self-government were preparing some major investment that later became of interest to the Republic of Croatia, buying land from citizens of owners of 100 things. The fact that the owners were accidentally connected in one way or another with the leaders of local and regional self-government is a coincidence. Part of the owner didn't want to sell, some of them because they obviously calculated that they would even increase the price, let's say not 40 euros, but maybe 45 or 50, some simply didn't want to give their country, and then the extradition procedure went and then the land was awarded 5 euros. How is it possible that under market value not to recognise what is purchased from other owners in the vicinity or in that particular location? Is there some kind of methodology or in the finance ministry some kind of regulation, some kind of software computer that determines what market value it is, which is at some point, at which location. I'm asking about it, let's say, I found that when the owner of the apartment he bought goes to pay real estate tax, that the state is billing his taxes not at the price at which he bought the apartment, but at the established price of sales tax on real estate. So is there some sort of imaginary price list, under quotes, or method of calculation, that there can be such drastic differences? If there is already a possibility that the investor buys a part of the land and the part has to carry out the expropriation, then the market value cannot be less than the one recognised by other owners in that location and no other bureaucratic regulations. This is to prevent those manipulations that I was saying at first, and I believe that you know that such examples and some of them were in Croatia at the beginning of the investigation, some of them were just more media speculation, but it was a large amount of land, big money and big family ties. And the other problem that citizens often complain about is that when it is, there is an interest to rule out only part of the land, part of the plot, because the rest of the state or those declaring public interest is not needed. So where does the split of the plot come from? The law provides for the possibility for the owner of the state to propose that the whole plot be taken, but it does not say that the state must then take the whole plot, and the one performing, in whose interest the expropriation is carried out. The owner may suggest, but there is no obligation. Now, by cleavage the parcel and expropriating the piece of the parcel, the rest can be after five times, or 50 times more valuable, but its value can fall 50 times. In order not to be fair to the citizens of this country, if we are already applying one such institute that is entering into private property and applying it to an expropriation measure, then the State, or the issuer, must own the entire parcel, if the owner so requests, and not that it is only a possibility. At that time, with these two interventions in the law, I would really protect the interests of the owner and to a large extent prevent those corrupt acts when, because of the possession of privileged information, the land is purchased in advance because it is known that there will be public interest, sales at enormously high prices, and those who did not have this privileged information later end up being awarded. So with these two bill-fixing proposals, we're not going to be able to intervene with the amendments now, and I want to contribute to making the extradition procedure as fair as possible to the property owners. And at the end of the plea, Mr. Secretary of State, since this is the seventh change, is it? Sixth, seventh. In order for people in _Croatia to be able to read and follow laws, let us introduce one good practice of behavior to at least after another, or possibly third we go with refined texts. I mean, I've already said that, and I repeat, we would have to introduce a rule or a new law in Parliament, we have to introduce a rule that has more than two amendments or a new or refined text. With so many amendments and additions to the law, with so many frequent changes to the law, we create legal uncertainty, because the citizens of this country are hard to cope with in the regulations that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71260	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague would be replicating when he mentioned the problem. Indeed, the problem is when we have more changes and additions to a certain law, in terms of legal certainty and its application. In particular, this arises as a problem when we have the fifth, sixth, or seventh, even the amendment and addition of a specific legislative proposal. The replica is in the part where you mentioned the law, however, it is also a business problem, but I agree in that part that it should be well thought out, and given the decisions and instructions of the Constitutional Court in terms of legal certainty, that simply legislators, therefore in a certain sense, commit that these amendments and additions may not be precisely in this context until a sudden, but that, after the second or third amendments and amendments of certain legal text, they go with the whole law, precisely for reasons of legal certainty, precisely for those addresses, so to those who are actually the law in terms of its application and intended to be easier to cope and the whole, we would solve a whole series of other problems, in terms of applying the laws themselves, if we applied such a rule. Here I took this opportunity to once again, and on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, point to this problem, especially the problem that arises from the Constitutional Court's decision, which actually points even to how the amendments and amendments, i.e. the consolidated text of amendments and additions should be made, and by such a methodology, are not really something special in terms of profession – difficult, but indeed it is hard to apply the consolidated text in practice. In particular, in the light of the entry into force of certain provisions, and even some specific provisions of the law are amended 2 or more times when, therefore, during what period of time they have entered into force and since they apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71262	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71263	I agree with you, of course, that this is business matter, and I want to believe that Vice-President Seks and also the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure have taken it seriously and taken it seriously when we mention this problem several times and that if not on the Committee's initiative, then when I send such an initiative to the Rules of Procedure, I will send that committee to support it because I have watched the instructions of the Constitutional Court as to how the consolidated text of the law should appear according to the methodology of it. And believe me, the law with six amendments and an addition of 15 articles when it is so made as required by the Constitutional Court for reading, control and supervision of every citizen should have a law school or counsellor like Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71264	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71265	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Exclusion, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the emergency procedure. The urgency of the procedure is justified by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached a conclusion of 6 October which has been entrusted by the central authorities of the State Administration to amend and supplement laws from all administrative areas in order to carry out coordinations with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act within 6 months. We know that the integrity of ownership is constitutional value, but we also know that holders of ownership rights are obliged to contribute to the general good and that this law can be taken away or limited by law with market value compensation if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments to the Law on Immunity have been made to the terms of the Law on the City of Zagreb, in line with the decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia, with the previous opinion of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament, in which the scope of the regulation of the premises and committees in which the participatory and improvement of economic life is located. The proposed amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the Implementing Act are in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act which entered into force on 1 January 2010. At first glance with the proposed amendments, compliance with the provisions of other laws is achieved, while on the other hand these amendments are important from the aspect of the duty to meet the criteria for the achievement of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. On the basis of this, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71266	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71267	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There is therefore another law before us in the urgent procedure, so the Law on Amendments to the Law on Extortion, which is largely related to compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. As we have heard, the laws of the next months in the legislative procedure will be one hundred, so here we have today in the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament, these sessions of the Croatian Parliament have such 7 or 8 laws. And this is the result of the government's conclusion of October 6th where the Government of the Republic of Croatia ordered state bodies, so within the framework of their delirious accession to compliance with the provisions of individual laws with the General Administrative Procedure Act. As regards this law, it therefore proposes to delete the provisions which are contrary to or are governed by the ZUP, so they do not need to be regulated by this law, i.e. to propose that certain provisions be sufficiently and substantively aligned with the fundamental institutes of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, the law proposes one terminology alignment with the provisions of the Law on the City of Zagreb and is also proposed, and regarding amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of March 2008 which amended the structure and part-line of individual parliamentary committees to determine that the previous opinion on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to be given by committees in which the arrangement of space, i.e. the coordination and improvement of economic life is in part. So far, the law has specifically defined the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. I think that this formulation is better than it is so far and that it should always avoid the appointment of a body, or quoting the name of the body, because in the event of a change in their name or part of the circle, certain specific laws should also be amended. That's what she was talking about on behalf of the HDZ club and Lovrin. Therefore, despite the fact that these laws propose small and short amendments to the Law on Exclusion, they are undoubtedly very important and significant because they are in a unique way governing administrative action, so I will certainly support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71268	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71269	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your little compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and we have now opened several questions that will be, which enter into the very... matter of exorcism. What remains of the proposal, and what counterpart Lesar actually said, two issues of the market value of real estate and the expropriation of part of the property will be the subject which this ministry is now reviewing specifically on this second issue, and we will likely, in the next amendment of the law, and then probably in the consolidated text, move towards one possible new or improved model. In addition, it should be warned that there will be the same harmonisation of judicial norms that treat judicial jurisdiction, and we will also review the jurisdiction of the County Court, all related to compliance with the Law on Administrative Disputes and the new establishment of administrative tribunals in the Republic of Croatia, so you expect in this section practically one-up to the summer period of this period of 4th, 5th and 6th month of compliance not only with the Law on General Administrative Procedure but also with the completion of the standards relating to the functioning of the administrative courts of the new network of administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71270	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71271	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Law on Exclusion. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 729. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Immunity. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 86 votes in favour and 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71272	We're going to have another dot tonight. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on extradition, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 733 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zoran Piculjan will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on extradition, with the final proposal for a law on the execution of a contract signed on 1 October 2010 in Podgorica, a contract based on the latest amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it is practically possible to enter the principle of non-execution of its own nationals from other countries in relations with countries with which the Republic of Croatia has concluded a bilateral international contract, all for the purpose of processing the perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences and creating a mechanism that will prevent individuals from misappropriating their own nationals, fleeing to the state of their citizenship and the escape of criminal responsibility for the most serious crimes of organised crime and corruption. All this is a harmonisation with the European acquis with the European conference on extradition and additional protocols with the convention, which are the signatories of both states and the confirmation of this treaty, in fact, it would become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. So we suggest that it be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71274	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71275	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. In the past bilateral relations between the Republic of Montenegro and Montenegro, the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been in force in legal aid in civil and criminal matters since 1997. Although both countries are signatories of the European Convention on Extradition are drawn up in Paris in '57. the years, as well as the Strazbourg Supplemental Protocols, for which it would favour the provisions of bilateral international extradition contracts in the relations of the parties, it is permitted to conclude bilateral international contracts for the purpose of supplementing its provisions or facilitating the application of the principles contained therein. Thus, a recent amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has allowed it to deviate from the principle of non-delivery of its own nationals to other countries in relations with countries with which the Republic of Croatia has concluded a bilateral international contract providing for the possibility of extradition of its own citizens for the purpose of the processing of perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences. Subject law confirms a contract concluded with the aim of creating the necessary international legal framework to enable the extradition of persons in a State seeking extradition of the prosecution for criminal offence or to require extradition for the purpose of executing a prison sentence or a measure involving the confiscation of freedom. Thus far, the under-effective and insufficient legal framework for the achievement of cooperation in this area in the relations between the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Montenegro has been further strengthened. This also enhances mutual co-operation in the relations between the two countries in the field of justice and the fight against organised crime, taking into account the importance and need of close cooperation in this fight as well as the fact that the abuse of the two countries in the field of justice and the fight against organised crime, and sometimes the multiple citizenship of the states caused by the disintegration of former SFRY of its own citizens has led to the problem of impunity or inability to prosecute and enforce criminal sanctions. It is important to say that by now, the Republic of Croatia has signed such agreements with BiH and Serbia, and this agreement is only a continuation of Croatia's efforts to create an international legal framework for the effective processing of criminal offences, organised crime and corruption through co-operation with countries in the region. I would like to conclude that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71276	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71277	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is very useful for both Montenegro and Croatia to cooperate in the fight against organised crime and corruption, and that is why we at the HNS club, HSU, will support this bill. But we also want to make some recommendations here for the conclusion of future contracts of this kind, because we think it's a failure to do more than it's done here. Let's take it in a row. First of all, we would like to say that, in the preparation of this law, we are referring to the European Convention on Extradition and Predition of Protocols. A colleague and colleague of the third protocol given for signing at the 11th month has been released and should be said. It needs to be said what is in it and it would be good to know if Croatia will sign both when and when that third protocol. Furthermore, Croatia has not signed or ratified the European Convention on the Recognition of Foreign Judgments, which would also be very useful. We only signed a bilateral agreement with BiH, but did not sign this European convention. Therefore, there is a clear limit on its application. The Republic of Croatia does not continue to apply Recommendation 1427 of '99. the year of the Council of Europe which requires the application of the principle of "Aut dedere, aut iudikara" or to express or judge. So here in this very law we have countless examples of how to avoid handing over perpetrators of crime. In that case, we should clearly underline that in this case we will judge them in our country, or Montenegro, if they cannot extradite them that the perpetrators of serious crimes are not clearly unpunished, they go unpunished. Furthermore, what bothers us at the HNS-HSU club is that law and contract only apply to organised crime and corruption. My colleagues and colleagues, this agreement does not apply to war crimes, does not apply to murderers, does not refer to anyone who robbed a bank, if it is not organised crime. Clearly, then, he is unnecessarily restrictive to us, and we could certainly have extended him to a number of other serious crimes. Furthermore, there are double criteria in relation to the offences committed in the public sector and the private sector. There are many exceptions, there is a possibility of a different interpretation of certain articles. And as I said, it's a shame that he really refers only to organised crime and corruption. I don't think there's any need to go from article to article even though we did it at the club because we can't today, colleagues and colleagues change the contract ourselves, but we can confirm it or refuse it, but here's our request that the government, in future, in the making of these contracts really tries to be comprehensive and that the perpetrators of certain serious crimes don't actually go through better than they should, because it would be in the interest of one and another country in the conclusion of bilateral contracts that no one remains unpunished, that they really apply... principle. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71278	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal for a social care bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-06-0.u71279	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on Extradition. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 733. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on extradition. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 86 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my special honor and pleasure to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and the distinguished and dear guests of the Presidents of the European Commission and of the NJ. E.J. Jose Manuel Barroso... as well as Commissioner of the European Commission for the Enlargement of Mr Stefan Fule and members of the European Commission delegation visiting the Republic of Croatia. ... [[Applause.]] I also welcome the present members of the diplomatic assembly upstairs. ... [[Applause.]] It also honors me to ask the respected Mr Jose Manuel Barroso to address representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Here's your excellency. ... [[Applause.]]
