ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80677	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, MPs. In front of you is the draft Act on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the completion of the VC corridor. On 28 April 2011, the government adopted a decision to initiate the procedure, a guarantee agreement signed between the Ministry of Finance on the one hand the Croatian highway and the European Investment Bank on 15 September 2011. Corridor VC pan European corridor connecting from one side of Central Europe, Podunavlje with the Adriatic Sea, i.e. The port of Ploče. The route is vital in terms of the economic link between the transport of goods and passengers because it connects Budapest, Osijek, Sarajevo and Ploče. The project includes a Croatian highway network of 12 and a half kilometers in the VC corridor, along the northern and southern borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the north it is 3 and a half kilometers from the Middleci to Svilaj knots, the extension from Osijek towards the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a bridge over the 660m bridge, half of which is funded by the Croatian and half Bosnian sides, and on the south side it is 9 kilometers from Ploca to Metkovic. Part of the necessary funding has already been provided by the EBRD loan of 60.63m euros to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan is long-term with a repayment period of 20 years with a start of 5 years, the terms of the loan are laid down by the financing contract which is an integral part of this decision and the term of use of the loan is 31 December 2014. The law confirms the guarantee contract in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80678	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Representative Stipe Gabrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80679	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On 26 October 2011, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the completion of the VC corridor project, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian Act of 13 October 2011. The Committee discussed the final draft law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the completion of the VC corridor as a home working body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who said this law confirms a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the VC corridor in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The way in which financial commitments can be settled for the Republic of Croatia as guarantees and the jurisdiction to implement the law are prescribed. It was also pointed out that Croatian highways d.o.o. on the basis of the loan contract committed as a borrower regularly and fully fulfil all financial obligations according to... and all costs related to the implementation of the project. [[You don't understand.]] Without discussion, the Committee decided unanimously to refer the law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the completion of the VC corridor to the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80680	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80681	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We put in the procedure yesterday at 9 a.m. a law which is very attached to Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is the only thing that is related to the construction of a cargo terminal, where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has placed in the procedure for the debt of 50m euros, with the fact that the port of Ploče will provide 60m euros for infrastructure, so that this port of Ploče, which is one of the most important places in the Republic of Croatia, has its own time place in time and space, since the largest partner to the port of Ploče and the user of the port of Ploče, is neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina today's positioning point of today's agenda of the proposal of the Government's proposal with the European Investment Bank is significant because this corridor, it is important for the two counties of Brod-Posavnica County and it is even more important for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, means the combination of the port with the European Investment's capital, the city of Gorić, the city and the city of the city of the city of the city, the city of the city of Gorić, the city and the city, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city, the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city, the city of the city, the city of the city of the city, and the city of the city of the city of the city and the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of Gor. When this part is built that is very important for the Neretva valley, for the Republic of Croatia then we will connect directly the Neretva valley with two traffic routes, the corridor with the Adriatic road our Dalmatin and the other Corridor VC. This part that needs to pass the procedure today and where the debt of 50m euros is the second part of the loan, the first part of the loan went from the EBRD of 50m euros, and this second part goes from the European Investment Bank. In the northern section that connects from the Wednesday-Svilaja-granica BiH's 3.5 km-long node, it is an extension of the already completed section of the A5 Osijek-Sredanci-Osijek-Djakovo highway, which was put into circulation in April 2009 and Đakovo-Sredanci, which was put into circulation in mid-2007. The southern one is our bonding strip, which is very important for us 9km long, which is the extension of the A1 highway that will connect the Ploče node at the end with the new Metkovic border crossing, which will become the Schengen crossing when the Republic of Croatia enters the EU. The construction of these two shares in the south of Corridor VC and these on the north is important, very important for the development of the Republic of Croatia, is primarily important for the development of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It is also no less important, equally important and perhaps even more important for Brod-Posavina County, actually for the entire Eastern Slavonia. Building this corridor which has seriously started construction in BiH from the Metkovic border crossing to... Call for tender, overruled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So BiH will be doing it very soon. And all those goods that are from the port of Ploče and all those goods that go from the valley of Neretva since the valley of Neretva is a large agricultural producer and in Croatia I think they will get to northern Europe much faster, to the Baltic countries, to everything that this corridor combines. What is very important for the government of the Republic of Croatia, for the Croatian state, which is that we got, thank God that we got one of the best highways in Europe, that it is now to go from the Neretva valley to Zagreb and by the way drank coffee that is 4, 4.5 hours, that my wish and the club of HSS and Croatian peasant parties to find opportunities. First, to meet the profession and politics and to agree which direction is the town of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County and highway to Ploca. Is it over the Peljesac bridge to be built safely and which is one of the main links of the south of Croatia that will connect two parts of the Republic of Croatia. I think there's little state in the world that they practically don't have a compact territory and it's not connected. And I'm sure we need to find any options. Some new modeality of highway financing because this moderity of highways that has played so far, which plays with both today's law and this combination of two south and north of Corridor VC is a spent model. Why was the model spent? Because on the basis of this model, Croatia's highways are no longer in debt because what they have so far been in charge and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed today is exactly as much as possible from this traffic so far, this inflow of funds ensures that highways can be built by this dynamic. There are other modes and I believe that the HSS Club will surely propose in the future assembly of the Parliament that the construction of highways towards Dubrovnik may be built from the state budget in part or out of that to be given to the concession because this model has been spent and is no longer available from it. And everyone is both the position and the opposition are for the construction of the highway, but the HSS is also for the construction of the highway. But in order for us to build something we need to have project documentation that we still don't have and we need to have secure models, sources of funding and that. And I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this occasion for its additional efforts in front of the very assembly of the Croatian Parliament, what you said yesterday, Mr. President, for two more days, I think that these two or three days that a large set of laws has been passed that are important for the future of both the continental Croatia and the Pannonian Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia. And a lot of air traffic and a lot, a lot, a lot of important things. And I want these two days to be passed as many laws as possible to serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the HSS club will support this and imitate and thank you because we're going to get up to our Slavs much faster than we should now go much, we need to lose 10, 12 hours. If God knows, we'll be with our friends in Osijek in three hours without a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80682	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80683	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start by saying that the HDSSB club will support this bill. However, we have a few questions we would like to discuss here. I am sorry that there is no current Vice-President of Mr. Seks's Parliament because it is also related to some of the plans that we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament eight months ago, so in February of this year. First of all, I agree that the construction of the highway network is undoubtedly one of the biggest Croatian development projects that have been adopted in the strategic documents of the Government and the Parliament but are strongly supported by the Croatian public. The construction of a road network in the former state was limited and determined by political circumstances and certainly for this kind of momentum in the construction of a network of Croatian highways of crucial importance was the independence of the Republic of Croatia in 1991. It is precisely after the secluded Republic of Croatia's construction of the entire highway network was recognised as a strategic condition of the entire economic form. In the 1990 ’ s to 1998, it was not much to build but studies and projects were developed that allowed the rapid construction of highways, and I agree with my colleague, Jamba, that we probably have one of the best highways in all of Europe. I would like to remind you of the later debate on the state of highway construction, so from independence until the end of 2010. In 1991, there were 346,4 km of highways in Croatia. In 1998, I especially stand out as the year when peaceful reintegration was completed when we could start with even more intensive realization until then planned highway construction projects were 466,9 km of highways, 2000. 540.8, and here at the end of 2010, 1240.7 km. I purposely single out this by pointing out that since 1998, since the moment of completion and peaceful reintegration in Croatia, 773,8 km of highways have been built. Why I said I was sorry that there are no Vice President Seks at the moment, but we can discuss this, I am asking all of us, I will remind you that on 17 February this year we are also on some issues, so, on 17 February of this year, we discussed the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the completion of this VC corridor, then the contract that we were supposed to and signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was then agreed, the signing of a contract of 60 million euros and 630 for this same project of Corridor VC of these 12.5 km. At that time, I will quote, on the other page it wrote the total costs related to the project of completion of the VC corridor consisting of the construction of the Croatian part of the highway network in the length of 12.5 km not to repeat everything, is the same stock, the total cost is around 131.5 million euros. In today's document, we are now saying, today's proposal for a guarantee agreement agreement this time with the European Investment Bank of 60m euros, on the other hand, is all prescribed, a complete text when it comes to the objective that the law aims to achieve, says "the total costs associated with the project of completing the VC corridor on this same stock are estimated at 150.4m euros". Seven months ago, we said that the total cost was 135.5 million, and today we're talking about the total cost being 150.4, the difference from 18.9 million euros is not small. So, I'd like someone to answer me, I'm glad that the secretary of state is there, too, so that he can tell us what the difference has been in these eight months, from those 18.9 million euros in total costs of these 12.5 km highways, counting all those facilities that are going and our section of the bridge across the Sava River. We adopted this law on 18 February, however, I have to remember the debate of Vice President Seks, who announced in his debate on 17 February, although the start of construction of this section of the highway for the period from Wednesday to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina for April, for April of this year, although it was a little late but it is not as important as the construction of a bridge across the Drava River, worth 130m euros for which the credit was also secured, which began in July 2011, is a three-month delay, but it is less important. However, then Vice-President Seks announced something that made us happy, which is that the end of the negotiations with the EBRD on a 150m-euro loan for the completion of the VC corridor from Osijek to the Beli Manastir and the border with Hungary is 24.6 km long, which would have ended the entire part of the VC corridor through the Republic of Croatia from the Hungarian border to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Sava River. I will quote Vice-President Seks, who then said, in a phonogram: "Contracts are under way with the EBRD for a 150m-euro loan that would finance the construction of those shares. It is in the final stage, after obtaining credit and approval of the bank the start of planned work is in the last quarter of this year in September 2011. A year.". Okay, today is October, I expected to discuss today this loan for the completion of these 12.5 km, but we will discuss these 150m euros for the completion of the VC corridor through Baranja because he appreciates everything Mr. Jambo has said of what importance it is to end this corridor, the southern part of the 9km, and it is of great importance both for Baranja and for but then for all of Croatia of these 24.5 km. Unfortunately, there is no speech, so I would also like the answer to that question, at which stage, which is stuck, especially I have to admit that I was worried about this sentence by Mr. Jamba that this contract is ending this model, that the model has been spent and we haven't, we didn't get an answer how we're going to end that part through Baranja, so I would ask the answer to that question, as well as the question which is why, in 8 months, the total cost of completing the VC corridor for these 12.5 km of the north and the south has increased by almost 19 million euros. And I would just like to say one more thing, when it comes to building highways in Croatia and building highways in Slavonia and Baranja. The fact is, here I said that 773.8 km of highway was built since 1998 in the Republic of Croatia. It's a little less than 112 km, so 111.8 km was built in Slavonia and Baranja area. I count here and that stock from Velika Kopanica to Lipovac and these 55 km so far built from the Middles to Osijek. These 112 kilometers are compared to those 774 or 773.8 somewhere around 14.5% of the total shares and we can say that it is approximately balanced, perhaps slightly less than those of our famous always mentioned 20% of the territory, 20% of the population, but the fact that we had a part of the highway in Slavonia before, and we agree that this should have been done and then to all other parts of Croatia. And in this place, I would like to say, here at the end of the work, that the HDSSB club strongly supports the entire Republic of Croatia's cross-border highways and that the highway reaches Dubrovnik so that no part of the Republic of Croatia would be in a more unfavourable position. But I'm also asking to take care of this part that I was talking about, so the baranja part, about those 24.5 kilometers to make sure it doesn't happen, hopefully it won't be quite as literally as Mr. Jambo said, the expendable model, and then let's wait for the next election again so that we have to say here we'll start with the papers. Wanting that, if possible, I get answers to these questions about the collection and how we will and at what stage the outcome of the funds for Baranja is. Once again, I want to point out on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we support this bill, but we ask that the rest of the VC corridor be taken into account, especially through Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80684	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the first completion of the VC corridor. As we have done so far in our political efforts, the Croatian Democratic Community is viewing the VC corridor as the completion of this highway project as very important, regardless of whether this part is concerned today, this final bill, as well as in that section relating to Slavonia and Baranja, the continuation of the bridge construction, the completion of the entire 24km section to the border of BiH, to this border with Hungary. The VC corridor is designated as the highest priority in the Transport Development Strategy of Croatia for future road infrastructure development in the Republic of Croatia. Construction of both northern and southern sections of the VC highway in Croatia directly affects the development of both the Brod-Posavina County, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the town of Ploca, but this part relating to the area of Osijek-Baranja County and this part of the continuation of highway construction towards the border with Hungary and the borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The role of the VC corridor is to ensure a better road connection between Central Europe, the area of Podunnova with the Adriatic Sea and the port of Ploče, and the route is vital in terms of the economic integration of the transport of goods and passengers. The VC corridor connects Budapest, Osijek, Sarajevo, Ploče and includes the currently proposed direction of construction of a share from Hungary to Osijek, settlements Wednesdays towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ploče node towards the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. This law, which is before us today, confirms the guarantee agreement to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and to resolve the construction of the settlement of financial commitments that can be made for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee under the signed guarantee contract. In view of the signed terms of the contract and the potential financial obligations arising from the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee in this party of the contract, the allocation of additional financial resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia shall not be required. As regards the importance of the project of this completion of the VC corridor, we also heard in the opening presentation of the Secretary of State and in the presentation of representatives of clubs in the Croatian Parliament, this project is of paramount importance because it provides the fastest link between northeastern Croatia and southern Croatia. This will improve not only the transport connection within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, the transport connection with neighbouring countries, but the continuation of construction and completion of highways will also improve particularly economic, touristic and commercial activities in all areas to which the construction of these VC corridors and all VC highway nodes will be completed. It is especially important for us, here we heard in the discussion of representatives of the HDSSB club, so representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community from IV. The electoral units of Osijek-Baranja County, we are certainly all in the effort to ensure that this corridor, as well as the arrival of the road to Osijek, and the continuation of this bridge towards the Bela Manastir and the Hungarian border, but also this extension towards the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina ends within the scheduled deadlines. It should also be borne in mind that the efforts towards negotiations and the completion of the conditions for obtaining credit for the completion of these corridors depended on other conditions, not only on the conditions discussed in the discussion of the distinguished counterpart Buric, but also on the overall economic, financial situation in the Republic of Croatia. Given that the circumstances since the start of the negotiations have changed dramatically since the beginning of these papers, given the economic situation, the financial crisis in which the Republic of Croatia and all those funding models that were at a given moment were more necessary because Croatia was in one difficult situation regarding the economic and financial situation and all those projects announced at a time when they were announced in view of the entire situation in Croatia, but also in an environment in European countries, certain moves that were at a time of priority were taken in relation to what was announced four years ago. It is certain that by improving the economic situation in Croatia, but also in the European environment, it continues to build the VC highway and we are sure that there will be funds for the entire model to be completed. It is also necessary to clarify this question that you have asked. I believe that at the end of the presentation, the Secretary of State will give an answer to that, and that is what we all here are very interested in. Finally, I would say that in particular as regards this loan, the European Investment Bank has offered the necessary funding of 60m euros with a 20-year repayment period and a 5-year start, and the loan will be used to finance construction works and finance services of consultants. The term of use of this loan is 31 December 2014, and the completion of all works is planned by the end of 2013. I believe that we all agree together that this final bill will also take place, and all those projects and contracts and extensions that are ahead of us that we will support this because for us it is the most important priority for all not only the representatives of the Croatian Parliament but all those living in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, Slavonia and Baranja but also this part to which this final bill is before us. The HDZ Club supports this law and all those proposals that will come and are related to the completion of Corridor 5C. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80686	Thank you. In the name of the National Minority Club, Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80687	Thank you very much, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I want to say a few sentences about this agenda point. It is known that this corridor was built from Osijek through Djakova to the Middle East. Furthermore, we also know that the works on Drava are being started on the bridge where Drava, or part of the highway, will connect Slavonia and Baranja. Furthermore, the fact that the Republic of Hungary has practically built the highway from Budapest to Mohača so that, until the border crossing of the Croatian-Hungarian border, there may be a few miles, perhaps 8 or 9 more, as far as I know the situation on the ground. I would advocate it and therefore ask that question and expect very precise as my colleague before me, the answer from Mr. Secretary of State is what the chances and realities for this part through Baranja of Osijek, from the city bridge which is now being built to over the White Manastir to the state border of the Republic of Croatia and Hungary. Namely, I must say, it is our hope and desire if that 5C corridor passes through Baranja. As far as I know from the technical documentation at Ceminac should be one hub, it is practically the geographical centre of Baranja, and Kopački rit is about 7.8 km away from that node from Ceminac and given the fact, I have such reliable information and knowledge that many tourists who visit our Adriatic Sea over the summer, at least I know from this part especially when tourists from Hungary are concerned, rarely who comes by or on their way back to Plitvice Lakes. We expect that if this corridor is built that the same or similar point or point of view will be and exactly that node near Ceminac where people will find a day, two times either on their way back or on their way back to Kopački butt and of course on our wine roads because Baranja is able to provide a weekend or extend the accommodation quality for tourists. In that sense, I appeal and expect such an answer from the secretary of state, in the end that as this stock on the south side of Ploč, what my colleague was talking about in the introduction when it ended up being finished, this path through Baranja. In other words, in such symbolic terms, if the ribbon is cut down at Ploč on Thursday one day or in a year, two days, then the same thing is done in Baranja or somewhere on the border or with Ceminac on Friday. And we won't, of course, be angry that it might be sooner in Baranja and then down, and there's no difference more than just a few days. In the hope that this will and will have certain assurances, I would personally like to be present with many of you colleagues at these openings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80688	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. She's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's first representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80689	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, this is a very important topic especially for the Croatian south. We talked a lot yesterday about Lucy Ploche, and that's where we touched Corridor 5C. An important corridor, connecting north and south, we said from Baltic to the Adriatic, or in this case from Budapest to Luke Ploca, and I consider it a very important project and I support this kind of loan that you've been talking about here to the secretary of state. I particularly support what is the time of the last withdrawal on 31 December 2014, which means that these 60 million euros will be spent by then, which is very important, which means that the project will be realised. We know that road life means that it will contribute significantly to the economic development of this end. We have already heard here from the representatives of the HSS Club that there is a border crossing at the meeting between Metkovic and BiH, which is what we see ourselves if we travel by car. We also see that there is already a slight development of the entrepreneurial economic zone. All this is very important, but for me this topic is particularly important and I would like to use it in these last days of the Assembly meeting for a more concrete discussion on the integration of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County with the rest of Croatia. Not only is Dubrovnik and the county not connected to the rest of Croatia, but it is not the county itself. So the inhabitants of Neretva to get to their capital of Dubrovnik must cross so many border crossings. We heard here that you should decide the representative of the HSS Club said you should decide in your ministry where it will connect to Dubrovnik. It is already decided where Dubrovnik will connect and I want to make it clear here today in the Croatian Parliament. There is a strategy for development of the traffic of the Republic of Croatia and it is known that the highway goes through Neum for Dubrovnik. The second direction is the Peljesac Bridge, so it's not that and, or, or, but it's also, and the Peljesac Bridge and the highway, that's what I hope at the end of this session Parliament to remain clear to everyone. All the spatial plans of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva, all the spatial plans of cities and municipalities through which this road passes have a ploted highway towards Dubrovnik. Yesterday I said if the whole of Croatia is in the same education system, if it is in the same monetary system, then it must be in the same transport, or equal road system. What I would like to say to you is that these days I hear from a representative of the SDP that they do not want to build a bridge because it is too expensive, and we have a very different position, and I want to support it today with a letter that I received from a Croatian, a Croatian woman from Petrinja. She says that she was encouraged by the news, and there were news of the bridge not being built by Milanovic, statements from the SDP's I wanted to give you a brief comment on the raised noise in the media about building a bridge on Peljesac, for 3 years in a row my family came to Opzen near the family for vacation, how your and our Dubrovnik are so close and I wanted to show my children his beauty live, we are a four-member family, very modest incomes so that I am not able to be able without a direct need for children, husband and myself to make passports, in order to visit Dubrovnik we were stopped at the start of the border crossing, husband and I can, but children without a passport do not. The wife hit it more because it was '92. In the year he fought under the 2nd Guard Brigade Thunders in the area and wanted to visit the area where he was then staying, visit places where several of his close friends died. His comment then could, and now with my children no. I sincerely regret that the politics and the bad financial situation, both our homelands and my family have made it impossible for us to come into the pearl of our beautiful ones. Keep it up with your struggle, and once we are ordinary citizens, we will be able to tour our historical beauty. With respect, Maria Mlinar of Petrinja. So I had to read this, because it means they may not be aware of the rest of Croatia that if a child of a month, half a year, has no passport, or is not listed in the passport, but everyone has to be, has their passport, can't cross from Metkovic to Dubrovnik, can't cross from Ploč to Dubrovnik, that I'm not saying he can't go to Zagreb, and I think it's one fact that everyone here needs to be aware, so I'm using this debate about the VC corridor, but I think it fits into this one, that it fits into this debate that we simply have to be aware that it's necessary to connect the county with the country, and then Croatia, and of course, the highway. It's here, of course... to repeat that it means the development of the Peljesac bridge, Mljet, Korčula, I think that it is already relevant to speak of it, I think everyone knows it, that it is clear to everyone what it means to be connected. [[You don't understand.]] There was a speech here that if a model had been spent, I'd like to hear from the secretary-general that the funding model was spent. I do not believe that these are relevant information, because if there was money for all roads in Croatia, then there must be money for both the Croatian south and Dubrovnik, because Dubrovnik is not only a walking polygon, a field for excursions, Dubrovnik is a very important city and historically, and I think you all know enough about it that there is no point in defending it here. So we have to get to Dubrovnik on the highway and I believe that the funds will be found and that there will be a model that there are funds, and that there must be serious talk about it. As for connecting with our friends from Slavonia, of course, I join myself to wish that very soon, in 3.4 hours, we too from Dubrovnik via Ploč via the VC corridor via Bosnia and Herzegovina can reach Osijek and Slavonia. We see that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, work has already started on the road to Počilac, which is, that is, a tender has been launched, etc., which is very good, which gives us the conviction that this will not be a road leading anywhere, this road should not only lead to the Bosnian-Herzegovina border, but must continue through Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that this will happen very soon. In any case, I support the proposal of this law, I support the maximum link, and here I am using this last debate in the Croatian Parliament to raise awareness to all of you colleagues once again, but also to the Croatian public, all of those possible opponents of the integration of the South, to understand how important this is for the overall development of not only Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but also for the development of Croatia and tourism of our course.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80690	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, as you know, I don't know why you're saying that we from the rest of Croatia, so we eat the rest of Croatia in your way, which is quite conveniently and figuratively said yes, that we are not aware of the border and customs, customs regime on the route of Ploče, Neum, etc. That's really an absurd claim. And secondly clear that we would, we all have as a little girl before the window a lot of great wishes and so would the Peleski bridge, but to take what is set to be for the Croatian railways for the Peleski bridge it is already something else, it is already a redistribution that is not legal and is not neat. And one more thing, remember that the Pleternica-Ours railroad has been lifted and that our tracks are capable of what they are, and you see for yourself daily on our little TV screens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80692	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80693	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's my colleague Shuica, so I fully support your debate about therefore and the VC corridor, but especially the Peljeca Bridge, but I would like to highlight something else that has been released here, and we can very easily elaborate why we can support this contract on the project of completing the VC corridor. So I think the construction of the highway so far has shown the best advantages that can be seen and seen and they will also be expressed in the construction of the VC corridor in connecting our green and blue scars as we like to say it. First of all, domestic construction operations, i.e. companies, have done everything, so this part of us would work equally in Slavonia, both in the south and in the south, and all that is based on them. Also wherever it was done, all units of local self-government, all cities and municipalities were then given a certain step, i.e. they made a certain step in terms of activation of both domestic companies and producers, construction of municipal infrastructure, but also the population through hospitality, accommodation and the like. In these areas, also maintenance and traffic control centres were built, monitoring service facilities. They've been hired all over the place, and they're working domestics. All of these are, therefore, advantages of the total that we can take and should be spoken of in this area, and especially when it comes to this employment, then it is a completely different and demographic picture, but also a total of the whole area. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, I said I support you, not only its construction but also your entire debate, and we all know very well what it means. And he's also relying on everything that's going to give us the advantage of building this corridor. I hope it's certainly very quick to operate on the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80694	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80695	Thank you, Mr. Matkovic, I am pleased to hear and believe that there are no conflicts or any other sides around this project. I think it's clear to all of us that it's a funny finding of a HDSSB gentleman who says that the wishes of a girl are from a window. I think the boys have the same desires, even bigger ones in front of the window, and that's why I wouldn't do it. Speaking of which, and gender equality, then I think this is convenient to mention here. We understand Slavonia and we want Slavonia to develop just as Croatia's south should develop, and as you said, Mr. Matkovic, every neighborhood in which something was built or worked made a big contribution. Whether in the building, whether in the opening of various businesses, or in employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80696	We have a replica, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80697	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Shuica kindly pulled a parallel here from this Slavonic project all the way to the Pelješko Bridge and I totally agree with your debate. But what's interesting is what you said about SDP and the "Kukurik coalition" about thinking and projects already applies to what used to be a show of colleagues Holly after which they wiped out here from the assembly, all of them because they started a little bit through their exhibitions and public statements to discover parts of their programme and what they would do in Croatia so that God wouldn't come to power. So we heard from colleague Holly, she represents SDP means "Kukuriku coalition" if they weren't for the Peljeski bridge, if they weren't for the Danube-Sava channel, and if they were here today they'd probably hear they're not for this project too, the Corridor VC. It is a shame that they are not here in the assembly because these days they would certainly hear many, many interesting things and picnics from their programme and what awaits Croatia and Croatian citizens if they do not let God come to power. But it should be remembered not to forget these 40 days, so December 4th is still a smart decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80698	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80699	Mr. Huška those of the SDP have already heard and had the opportunity to convince themselves of one program they wrote, other programs give away some of their members during the presentation of the programme, and the third programme would eventually implement. It is therefore very important to raise awareness for citizens and voters that they behave in this way. We also had a chance to hear from their economic strategist, Mr. Greek, who said that's what it says, but that they would do it a little differently. So that's how they learned how to work. Not just in this... It's like they used to do in the old days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I fully agree with you in this section.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80700	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Shuica, you spoke of Corridor VC which will connect Croatia's north and Croatian south through BiH which is also a Croatian country with an emphasis on this and. You also talked about the Pelješa Bridge that should connect Croatia's south with the rest of Croatia. Does it seem to you that in the Republic of Croatia the climate is created that everything that is being built, which may not be provided with the funds and there is not enough resources, is being associated with the Pelješki Bridge. So if you can't build a kindergarten somewhere or some gym, then some local officials say there is a Peljeski bridge, and we can't build a gym. Do you think this climate is not good and I absolutely support the construction of the Peljega Bridge. I'm like a Croat from 11. Election units and I deny all those who say that the bridge bypasses BiH, I think that bridge is a very strategic matter for the total Croatian national interests because in that part of the Republic of Croatia it is too dared to say thin and narrow and I would not like the city of Dubrovnik and part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County to experience the fate of Kotor and Boka Kotorska in any future.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80702	Thank you. Mrs. Shuica, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80703	Mr. Vukic, I wouldn't be as pessimistic as you are, these are quite serious words that you said with caution around Dubrovnik. Well, we heard from the club president, Mr. Grubisic, who was amazed by my syntax, the rest of Croatia. It wasn't a lapus. We in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, especially in Dubrovnik and in the far south, experience this as the rest of Croatia for reasons that we cannot come there as I have already said if we have not accidentally issued a passport. So it's not a lapus, but maybe part of our mentality that we have and that we inherit from history. History that we've had the state for 1,000 years, and it's probably where it comes from. I don't think there's any chance that this will happen, that the Croatian government is aware enough and that they are aware enough in the Ministry of Transport that it will not happen that the Croatian South is left so isolated. I agree with you that we are not bypassing BiH, which is a Croatian country for sure, but the Peljek Bridge means something else entirely. Strategic Croats have sinned and repeated their mistakes many times in history, and I hope that this time we finally have our own country we will not make that mistake again but will unite Croatia and traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80704	President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Representative Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80705	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. So here, I want to take this opportunity to discuss this very important item of the agenda because there are few opportunities and many of us will point out in the future. It is not the corridor of the VC or Slavonski, or Bosanskoherzegovsky, or Dalmatian, or if you want only Hrvatski, the corridor of the VC is a very important share not only of Ukraine, Kiev but also of the Baltic Sea of the Baltic Republic, Poland, Poland ports to the Adriatic. Wherever I was recently from Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and other Austria and neighbouring countries all showed special interest in the link not only because of the energy needs between the East and the West but also because of the transport, energy and their need to connect North and South Europe, so Baltica and the Adriatic. It is of great importance, of great importance, I think that there is no one who would challenge such a broad interest in building this corridor, of course we have never ignored the development and traffic needs of all parts of Croatia, so that Ploč will meet on a knot called Metkovic knot, meeting two large highways. Adriatic-Ionian highway and Corridor VC, respectively, north and south of Europe. What it means for the port of Ploce, which means for Hercegovina, for Dalmatia for one and the other county and beyond, and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Split-Dalmatia and Hercegovina and Bosnia and all around Slavonia should not be talked about. Each of our successes in building infrastructure is complementary and interdependent in terms of connecting transport and economic overall development because it is the basis for any development. Because of this when we talk about the port of Ploče and the general wider pool, it is of particular interest for the development of the Ploče port of yesterday, because the interest in the construction and capacity of the port of Ploče is not only what many have listed a relatively narrow area but all of it to Ukraine and I don't know where but also the interest of the overseas countries who believe that many of the goods that come from the world can come across the port of Ploče and Rijeka and similar to the nearest one that comes to the centre of Europe, it is the closest and when it connects to the plains of Rijeka-Zagreb, by training Sava and building a channel connection between Sava and Danube near Vukovar, it does not have to go through the Aegean, the Black Sea, Dardanella, along with the Danube, etc. So, every single thing I want and I want to understand as complementary to everything that is our interest and what we're talking about in a broader sense of the word. Since I will not be given the opportunity to talk about it at the Croatian Assembly anymore, I would like to get a little more than Mrs. Shuica would look back at the Pelješki Bridge. Of course, this highway that came to Vrgorec, or Ploč, should continue towards Dubrovnik and I don't think there's anyone who would question it, but the question of the Pelješko bridge, I'll say it was 20 days ago that it was 13 years old when, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament, I presented and explained the need to build the Peljega Bridge, then HDZ also had its own government, so on behalf of the ruling Club, it was 13 years ago. I know because I have been in Korčula many times, both on Pelješac and Mljet and on the Elafiti and on the Dubrovnik coast, Konavla, etc., I have never heard in campaigns or anywhere against these people when highways were built throughout Croatia. When it was built in Slavonia, Istria, now when it was built towards Sisak, according to Varazdin, according to Maclew, all of it made us happy down there. First, because it builds and connects Croatia, and then it's good to have some logical conclusion done, so maybe we'll come to a turn. What sadly saddened me in Croatia to the public from some that every problem in Croatia, in the transport sense, and even in other contents of some infrastructure facilities, justified if the Pelješki Bridge did not work, all our problems would be solved. We didn't deserve to talk about it down there. Croatia is divided into traffic and in every other way, Mrs. Shuica talked about how it can be if you want to stop a child from coming to Dubrovnik hospital for a year, and keep some time at the border. I've been to that border many times, sometimes an hour, an hour and a half, waiting to cross that border, from my homeland to my homeland. So even though we've never talked about how we're going to do it technically, there are different opinions today how to technically solve the question of the bridge or any other solution, etc., it's never been the subject of the debate here, it's been passed on to the profession. However, it is obvious that resuscitating this entire area is of great importance to the Republic of Croatia. You know that there is an exit to the sea of neighbouring BiH at Sutorina in Boka Kotorska and the problem has resolved that part has joined Montenegro. Now that we're thinking and then we should think if BiH should go out to sea somewhere, then it's anytime Croatia ends, and then it starts before Montenegro starts. But it's our inheritance, but interestingly it's been erased and this is all that's left. Does this remind you of something long-term, some long-term policies, etc. So the modern Croatian man would have to think about these aspects as well. We have to do it tomorrow when there's a Schengen border as well as from that point of view and then we take the arguments Europe is against the Peljega Bridge. That's a lie. The invention of those who would like us to watch for a long, long time squat at the border and wait when we will be in the capital of our Dubrovnik County, otherwise Dubrovnik, which is not only the capital of our county, but one world term in different aspects. So I plead, please, all those who lightly place that bridge in something that prevents the development of others, to, say, come in the 7th month when they go to Dubrovnik, not by plane, but by car to see what it looks like, that four times we actually have to stop for 10km. The development of this whole neighborhood so I don't say what it means. No one is doing this because for some of their personal or these or those reasons, but here's if I can explain it not by going into detail but by looking at it in a broader sense. I hope that this will be the case and that no matter how political opportunities develop, we will all be in order to continue the highway to Dubrovnik as soon as possible, but also to build the Peljega Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80706	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One replica, perhaps, represents practically one addition to this. The experience of the highway that we have Zagreb-Split historical experience of the highway that we have Zagreb-Split shows two important things. The first is that already in '71, the second year of the road project existed, the idea of that realization even exists a financial structure that made it possible to do so. But quite other not economic or infrastructure reasons for not realising it. There was no reason for Croatia to continue to remain unintegrated, incomplete as it is today, so between the north of Croatia and the south. The same story is important for the entire area of Komarna down towards Dubrovnik. I am from Split it does not really matter to me as it is to the Dubrovnik people, but to Croatia and to all others it is extremely important. Another reason is that by looking at the Peljek Bridge as an infrastructure cost, it does not see what is important, which is also the highway that shows which economic benefit not only directly but indirectly brings it, and which cannot be measurable with this. So investment in the Pelješki bridge is part of economic investment, not infrastructure investment, although it is realised as infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80708	And Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this tourist season has also shown what it means to build infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, but we can talk about the importance of this infrastructure for this upper part of the Adriatic. But when we talk about the Peljesk Bridge, it shows and speaks much wider than it is. It talks about worldview, it talks about political thinking, it talks about care for certain parts of Croatia, and the Peljeski bridge I think that at the time that negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU were to be pushed and talked about as an important segment in Schengen, because the Peljeski bridge guarantees the territorial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, guarantees far easier flow of Roma and people than it is now happening through Neum. And I think in such a way and in certain political pressures we should basically find a model and means to finance that bridge, and not that someone is telling us now it's not part of the shengene. It is part of the Schengen because it connects the Republic of Croatia and it connects the flow of goods and people through Croatia that they do not have to go through another country and it should be pushed to finance from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80710	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80711	Thank you very much. I didn't raise my correction or replica plate, Mr. President, but when we already think like my colleague Shuker used to say or admire what they say in Slavonia, then it would turn out that the Corridor VC that goes through BiH would not be usable and should be avoided because of customs and other formalities on the border with BiH, so it should take the corridor 10 to Zagreb and to Dubrovnik. Or the same time we go to the Corridor VC we're talking about, we have to go to the Bosnian Svilaj to check with the police and again to get out of BiH, so we have to check at the border again. It's not exactly what they say. A 60m-euro loan or 450 to 500m kuna, who knows how much more will end up because we have other sources of money from 60 and another 30m euros, it is 150m euros or a billion kuna for the end of Corridor VC, in fact, for this part between Wednesdays at Slavonski Brod, and then it must be mentioned that there are two other villages to Sava, not just Svilaj, which are Zoljani and Strožani, and then we come to the bridge on the Sava River, which here says that it will be built by half of the Republic of BiH and the Republic of BiH from where BiH will obtain or we will stay halfway to the bridge, and Bosnia when they build their share I do not know. So that loan is a loan or a loan for a huge return on the loans that our children and our students will repay. You see here in this contract, the agreement that you like to say in English or in English, it's nice to write yesterday for the port of Ploče, which we're also for the construction of both projects, writes a delay and then a return of credit. That box of good wishes has come true in these last two, three weeks. Stone foundations are also available for those who continue to build these projects, buildings, etc. They'll really have a lot to worry about how to repay and repay those loans. As far as the VC corridor in Slavonia is long, so this new section to be built from Wednesdays to Svilaj 3, just over 3 km with the bridge, and then from Ploč, Metkovic to the border with Hercegovina is also about 13 km away, it is clear that, as counterpart Buric said, that the HDSSB club for the construction of that corridor is a VC because it already connects Hungary, which is already in the European Union and then Kiev in Ukraine, the capital of Ukraine, is otherwise pronounced Kiiv because Ukrainians are swingrs as well as Croats, to be known only. So, we hope that, given that the agreement on how it says in the opening part of this legislative proposal was signed on 6 February 2001, the granting of loans for investment projects in the Republic of Croatia. Here's 10 years, 2011 came the 3.2 km, and as Slavonia always waits for everything like this. But there's something else I have to say. Mr. Shuker, don't wave your head because I was at your house four years ago when you spoke to Mr. Bubal, Agent Drmic and promised me that you would make it possible from certain means to build an underpass in Slavonski Brod on 423 State Road. From the underpass to say no, and from the eastern road promised by Ivo Sanader, your leader and leader and former president, there is nothing at the government meeting in Slavonski Brod 25.9.2005. And on the 423 state road through the very city of Slavonski Brod and through the crossing of the railroad cross 16000 vehicles a day. 16000 cars a day. I'd like to see my little girl's wish come true before the window so she can come lay a cornerstone for that underpass. At least our hopes might be extended, and your promises may sometimes come true. And as for the VC corridor, the crossings of two large, as Mr. President said, two large highways A1 and the VC corridor, that same VC corridor crosses with even more to say maybe a larger highway A3 at the Wednesdays where the X and V corridor is just... He's finished, so the overpasses, it's almost so it's built. [[You don't understand.]] We are left only across the plains of that 3 km from the Middles to the Svilai to build there as I said before the largest hill of pumpkins, so we can do it quite quickly. They say it's a two-year deadline, God forbid. I repeat, as well as my colleague Buric himself, on behalf of the club, that the HDSSB club is for this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80712	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80713	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So counterpart Grubisic said that something has been going on for the past month. This is a process that has lasted for 5 years and from project documentation to a contract with investors. The second thing, what you mentioned in 2001. It's simply not true, it's signed, read what it says, it's a signed cooperation agreement with international financial institutions, and that's something else, no mention of projects. And about who was elected, you know who was on which side in 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80714	Thank you. We have another correction, Mr. Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80715	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague Grubisic has said is one quote that is not true, which is when he said that I quote, everything is done, done in the last days, and as the last days, stone foundations are laid, etc. We are here today talking to our colleague Grubisic about the VC corridor, i.e. everything that is based on this grand project which is significant not only for us here in Croatia but also beyond, and I will tell you that you have spoken the lie by either not going or not, or using this pre-election time now, to highlight yourself, so that the highway is built towards the Pločas, to go towards Metkovic, and that means there is a date in Zvirići, if you know where Zvirici is and where there will be a connection of the VC corridor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80716	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80717	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Obviously, we are all talking affirmatively about this final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the VC Completion Project, and of course it is an opportunity to mention some other significant investments in transport infrastructure that have been completed and which are ongoing and of course planned in future periods. But a few words about the law itself on the agenda. It confirms the Treaty on the Guarantee between our country and the European Investment Bank for the completion of the VC corridor in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is clear from this argument that the total cost of the project is estimated at just over 150m euros. The project consists of several parts, and the first is the construction of a 12.5 km highway on the VC corridor, which consists of the northern section from the Wednesdays to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina 3.5 km and the southern section of the Ploče node to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina 9 km long. The European Investment Bank confirmed co-financing of the costs of the project in question through loans of 60m euros. The loan was granted to Croatian highways, of course with the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, and for a period of 20 years with a start of 5 years. It is clear that this road is only one section of the corridor from Eastern Europe, Ukraine, via Budapest, and here we have Osijek, Bosnia and Herzegovina Sarajevo, and again in Croatia Ploca, and it becomes definitely this, by building one of the most significant European shares and European road corridors. Here we are increasingly using this day-to-day geographical position of our country related to the development of road infrastructure, and this definitely brings results, and it is clear that building quality highways, other low-level roads, is a prerequisite for faster economic development, and when we only talk about infrastructure, we should always think that this infrastructure creates conditions for the development of the economy, for the development of tourism, for the development of entrepreneurial zones, and for everything else that results, of course and greater engagement of our construction operations in the short term, looking at greater employment and more jobs for our builders, and in the long term looking at definitely greater economic growth, even more quality and faster development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. It is also known what foreigners say, and our neighbours from Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, Italy, then up to Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, about our highways, that they are one of the most beautiful in Europe at all, and perhaps I dare say in the world. That is exactly what one of the road infrastructure quality factors is, one of the factors that Croatian tourism, and confirms this year is increasingly developing, is that more and more tourists who are now arriving at quality roads in our country, and we see what is the growth of tourists up from northern Europe, from Ukraine, and all the way to Russia, who are now coming by road vehicles, which are faster and faster coming to our Adriatic and mainland destinations of tourism and transport are becoming, the traffic connection is becoming a smaller problem, and we remember what the situation was in the former country with our roads where we had the highway of brotherhood and unity and nothing more. It is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has recognized the importance of highway development in these years and in some previous ones, because this is precisely what brings better results today. What this share of the relatively small VC corridor means for Croatia, for the port of Ploče, we heard about Baranja from speakers before me, from fellow Shoja who has very well identified the importance precisely for Baranja, precisely for the possibility of economic and tourist development of that one of the most beautiful parts of our country, and by the arrival of the highway the potential of Baranja will be open to the whole world, to all people who are in transit, to all those who want to quickly, safely and qualityly reach this beautiful part of our country, the beautiful end of our country. I will take the opportunity here to mention another important stock on this vertical which is also descending from Hungary to Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no highway status, but it has great importance precisely for the development of one part of Podravina and Western Slavonia, which is part of the fast road from the Hungarian border across Virovitica, Grubišni Polje, Daruvar, Pakrac, Lipik, over Okucan, and towards Banja Luka and again towards our Adriatic, where we know that it is divided into several phases, where we know that at this moment a study of environmental impact has been made on Daruvar-Lipik-Pakrac, where it is known that Požeko-Slavon County, the towns of Pakrac and Lipik are now coordinating their spatial plans with new locations of the nodes in the area of these two cities, in the Požeko-Slavonia area, and we also know that the traffic from the south of Zagreb is connected to the south of Croatia, the coast of Croatia and the coast of Croatia. Sometimes in other times, until we had quality highways through Varazdin, Zagreb, and today here is a more built and quality share of the VC highway corridor, a large part of the transit traffic of tourists from Hungary, the former Czechoslovakia, today Czech Republic and Slovakia, went right through that corridor D5, which is the continuation of the European corridor E5 which from Budapest goes across the cities that I have listed, all the way to Banja Luka, Zadar and the south of Croatia. I believe and hope that the dynamics that are planned and on this stock, as well as on the C5 shares, as well as on the Peljeka Bridge, the construction of other infrastructure road facilities will continue, that we will come up with quality funding for these projects, and here from the experiences of new members under the quotes of the European Union cities of friends, units of local self-government that we are working with, we are working with in Hungary, Czech Republic, especially in Slovakia, to show that they have succeeded large shares of significant means to finance highways and state roads and fast roads in the structural funds of the European Union, I think that this is a quality source of funds, that we must prepare project documentation all that precedes it, to be ready to withdraw funds that will be available to the Republic of Croatia, among others, and to build highways, local and state roads. Full support for this project, full support for the integration of Slavonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Adriatic, with the port of Ploče, all across the Peljesto Bridge down to those beautiful areas of Konavla, Cavtata, Prevlaka, means the south of our beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80718	Thank you. We have one, one replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80719	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You spoke of the importance of infrastructure for economic development. So how important that is, I would just ask two questions, and knowing the answers to those two questions, you get a clear picture. Have you ever seen a poor country with rich infrastructure and developed highways? You're not, nor will you see. Have you ever seen the poor with and the rich without it? There's no rich country without infrastructure strong. In Norway not only highways, but local and all state roads are under lighting even. It's not for nothing. Have you seen any country with developed tourism that has no airports on every island? It doesn't exist. How do we feel in Croatia? So when they go to their children's wedding in Zagreb, they can't even bring an art painting for a gift because they have to send an art painting by ferry, and they go by car on the road. So where else is there? Many compare highways to interstates with state roads. I'm talking here when they talk about the Peljesk Bridge. I'm talking about the connection of the state. Well, it's not normal that you can't walk freely through your homeland. And infrastructure is not a one-time effect. The effect is long-term and constant, and with a time-dependence, more and more powerful and positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80720	Answer, Mr. Hushka.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80721	I agree with my colleague Maric 100% with you. The short-term effect for sure will be through the employment of our construction companies, the employment of our workers, and in the long term it is almost immeasurable that everything brings us to the construction of modern roads and all other infrastructures in the Republic of Croatia. And I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on the right track through the development of these projects. My city is a friend of the Konavle municipality and the Blato municipality on the island of Korčula and I can tell you that without building these highways to Split, today and south we have come to our friends in the north of the Czech Republic rather than to the municipality of Konavle and Cavtatat. Today, thanks to God, the situation is completely different, and I believe that building the Pelješko Bridge and the availability of Korčula and all those beautiful places on Peljesac will make us all far more accessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80722	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80723	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, a lot is already said about this guarantee, about the loan, about the continuation of the construction of the Corridor VC that goes through Croatia about the fact that this loan will be spent in the north as well, that is, in eastern Slavonia and Baranja, and the part towards the south where it is, of course, a merger with the Adriatic-Ionian direction which Croatia is already, in some way, completing or heading towards the end of the highway towards Dubrovnik and the merger of the so-called Corridor VC to the Ploče hub. And that's these nine kilometers that we're talking about here today, and that's what we've been talking about. I'm going to relate to what's been in the debate so I'm going to talk in a broader context about traffic corridors. Here, my colleague Maric has already said very nicely that it is an unimaginable development, in fact, without this fundamental infrastructure. That's impossible, development without basic infrastructure. And I dare say here from this stage after many years of commitment to this extremely significant project that all those who are against the Peljesac Bridge are against Croatian national interests. I dare say that because it is certainly Croatia's national interest to connect Croatia to one whole, and it is certainly very much felt and welcomed by citizens living in that secluded part of Croatia. So, south of Neum, on the islands. So these people who are separated from the Republic of Croatia and that's why I'm talking about the rest of Croatia. Because that is part of Croatia, but the rest is separated from that part of Croatia. Of course we have the right to talk about the rest of Croatia. And all those who are against that bridge I dare say, once again, are against Croatian national interests. And secondly, they're incorrect thesis, incorrect, untrue, and I don't know what else to call them if they're supposed to be cut off from the railroad budget to be given to build the Pelje Bridge. That's not true at all. That's not true, that's a harsh lie. And speaking of railways, counterpart Grubisic, then be aware that the part of Croatia has no railways except that it has no highway. You, Mr Grubisic, can come from Osijek by highway to Zagreb and you do not have to go across the border. Speaking of borders with BiH, that's another state. And we have to go across the border. And when you talk about that fact, then you have to bear in mind that we don't even have a highway, we don't even have a railroad. But of course we look forward to it and for Slavonia to be networked with both highways and railways, but we also expect others in Croatia to rejoice that Croatia's south will connect with the Pelješki bridge and tomorrow highway. It is also incomprehensible that today after the space-plan documentation of Dubrovnik-Neretva County has been adopted, some are questioning the highway corridor. The highway corridor has been confused already a few years ago by adopting a spatial plan of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and it is clear that it goes in Croatian part, the highway goes in Croatian part. The part that is known and designed, for which Croatian highways have also received 10 million kuna and Osojnik-Doli. Of course, the issue remains of an agreement with neighbouring BiH on the corridor behind Neum. That's all it is. It is questionable from, therefore, the western side when it reaches the Occupied highway where it will connect at the border with BiH and on the other side where it will exit towards the Dolim. But the entire route within Croatia is therefore well known and it is clearly indicated that it goes within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And it is incomprehensible that today it is still being half-limed or written when everything is clear from the spatial documentation and from the strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia transport corridors and everything else. So this is about one important project which, of course, will have many good consequences for development and economy, which will have a positive impact on overall economic development, but not just economic development, but of course, that brings behind it and all the other positive consequences when we talk in general about the development of an end. So, not to mention the fact that by building the bridge itself, its value is compensated for quite certainly by the increase in land prices on the like Peljesac peninsula. I dare say that today the price of land is even higher, much higher than the price of the bridge. The very fact that this bridge has been designed and that land prices have started to work, so people on Peljesac have already become considerably richer and their country is much more valuable. Of course, they're already doing a lot of work on that land and they're using it, and we were talking about olive growing and winemaking the other day, and it's absolutely certain that it's a positive development. In addition, when traffic experts from the Transport College stopped behind this project, they said he would bring multiple benefits, then suddenly some expert debate over the bridge died, but the question of the funding question arose, etc. And second thing, I've already said about the railroad, can you imagine how the citizens of the Croatian South feel who have no railways and each year, almost 3 billion are given out of the budget for the losers of the Croatian Railways. I'm asking a question, so what is it? What kind of relationship is that? We can put it that way, turn the subject upside down. Every year from the state budget, one Pelješki bridge is given to the losers of the Croatian railway, each year. And what are we talking about? What values, what are we talking about? So we can also ask ourselves in a different way to the question of how the state's money is spent. The citizens of the Croatian South certainly deserve what is expected and this is the connection of that part of Croatia to the rest of Croatia and we will talk about it, we will talk about the rest of Croatia because we have a moral right to do so. And when we say that this bridge, the Peljesac Bridge is an expression of the real needs and wishes of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens in the Croatian South, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Bebić, who knows these parts well, knows these people, certainly that this project has plebiscite support for everyone down there. Even the parties at least declare that they are operating in the area of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County whose representatives and whose leaders are against it. And they even try to reduce it by saying that they will be built when there is money, etc., regardless of what their leaders Milanovic, Cacic and other teams say they will not naturally build that bridge. But it is certain that the bridge will continue to be built, it is built, whoever wants to see what it is, and very much when we talk about this investment, counterpart Maric said well, so when you start to invest, who will work on that bridge? Croatia will again operate, our construction will work again, specifically 300 million kunas scheduled for next year will be spent in Croatian shipyards that will work, Croatia's shipyards will receive 300 million kuna from the Peljesac Bridge, which will work steel columns that will stick to the foot of that bridge. The pillars yes. Therefore, you do not have to correct me, you spoke about appeal, so we will not speak any further than the Croatian language. So, it's about Croatia's construction operation, Croatian shipyards making money from the project, they're going to work on the project, this multiple benefit that was already here is simply invaluable. We can ask the question, then, what are the craziest of us Swedishs and Danes who built a 18-mile bridge and a few miles long? In China 42 km, what are all these crazy countries, they don't think about economic development, which is where the Swedish and Danish think about when they connected Sweden and Denmark, they could have put two ferrys, as they said from SDP, there were ferrys not only two but hundreds of ferrys, so it was far less traffic again, far less useful than the moment they built a bridge that naturally brought multiple benefits, to all Scandinavia and Norway and Finland, it brought that bridge, benefiting Europe down from Denmark further. The bridge connects the coasts, the bridge means development, the bridge represents an economic base that is very important for the Croatian South, and it is no longer necessary to talk about highways, and it is quite clear that it is a project of the century for Croatia, for the development of its economy and for the integration of Croatia with the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80724	Thank you very much. I failed to announce that at 10 and 38 it was time to sign up for 10 minutes. We now have our first breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Then Mr. Boro Grubisic reported a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80725	That's a lot, Mr. President. In fact, Mr. Matušić Frano spoke first of all about how he liked to say it, off the cannon. We're talking about the VC corridor here and he's about the Peljesk Bridge that nobody mentioned and specifically addressed by name and last name to me. But none of the HDSSB clubs, nor I, have we said a single word against the VC corridor and the facilities connected to the Croatian south. So, Mr. Matusic, I don't know what's wrong with you, but you've started to use confusion or I don't know what. Furthermore, when we talk about correcting the incorrect quote so the HDSSB did not lift the Dubrovnik-Trebinje railway, perhaps you would like the Dubrovnik-Trebinje railway again, I do not know that your perception as you understand it. When you're talking about losses, I have a replica after that, so we can do it together. When we talk about redistributing the funds you do whatever you want, then take a look where you could use what's gone...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80726	It was a short-circuit railway line by Gabela-Dubrovnik, so it was separated from Gabela towards Dubrovnik, and then it went to Trebinje all the way to Niksic, it was all lifted, now let's not open on these questions, here, thank you very much. We are now going to the replicas, so colleague Matušić can be called one significant replica manufacturer. There's six of them. The first is Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Coli Matušić, although today we are discussing the loan for the stock or the completion of the VC section corridor in northern Croatia in the area of my Brod-Posavina County, and in the south of Croatia in your area, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I appreciate that most of the speakers who participated in this debate highlight the importance of this pan-European corridor for the Republic of Croatia that see traffic connections and then economic, Croatia with the European Union, through Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Croatian people in BIH and clearly until the south and port of Ploca. And just as I support the speakers who have advocated the construction of a link in Slavonia road that binds Osijek and Beli Manastir, as well as my colleague Matusic to you and everyone who has spoken I fully support your efforts and efforts by the Croatian Government to build the Pelješko Bridge, because your rhetorical question, and I believe that this is a rhetorical question whether we know how the citizens of the South feel when they need to go to their homeland and cross the border twice, I understand fellow Matusic as a citizen who once or twice a year goes south so I am deeply bothered by this border crossing. This is why support for all and Croatian governments who advocate not only the construction of Corridor VC but also the construction of the Peljega Bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80728	Answer Mr. Frano Matušić. Nothing. Thank you. We have further replicas, Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80729	Thank you, Mr. President. Cola Matušić, at the moment when you said that we train traffic to Dubrovnik agree with you and I think it is a fine remark, but I must remind you that we from Slavonia and Baranja have repeatedly warned of a great illogicality when it comes to air connection within Croatia. And it is also an embarrassing fact that Croatia Airlines has not found hearing or need to establish a regular air line for all these years except two months during the summer, so the 7th and 8th months with Dubrovnik. And all these years there is an air connection with all other centres within Croatia except Slavonia and Baranja. And Osijek airport is the only airport east of Zagreb. Therefore, by accepting this finding of yours when it comes to rail traffic, I also use the opportunity to appeal to anyone who can influence the possibility of allowing citizens of Slavonia and Baranja to have an air connection in the 21st century as well as everyone else within Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80730	Thank you. Answer Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80731	Thank you, Mr. President. Well the difference is that the infrastructure, so the airport exists, the infrastructure exists, so I agree that there is insufficient usability. It's a matter to discuss, and it's essentially a matter of bringing in another carrier. I think there are also a lot of low cost companies in Europe today that will be interested in that part of Croatia, and there are certainly many reasons why this part of Croatia is being visited and that it allows for a normal airline. But here we're talking about that there is no infrastructure in Dubrovnik-Neretva County at all, so there's no one mile of highway, it's just now breaking into the tiles and it's going to be over for a couple of miles next year. And there is no railway except for BiH because Luka Ploce was an export and import port for BiH, mostly and therefore only that corridor exists towards the BiH border, but within the county there is no railway. So we don't have the basic infrastructure neither the rail or the highway, and in that sense, of course, we expect the forces to concentrate on ending this job and that's what we're working on, what this government is working on. And I thank the Prime Ministers for, despite the difficult times, the Pelješac recession bridge remained a living project which is further being done and upgraded and which I say will ultimately be good for the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia not only and in this aspect that I have already talked about. And in this sense, indeed, here is this sustainability of the government of the Republic of Croatia to complete the job and to complete the highway towards Dubrovnik and thus open the space for the Adriatic-Ionian Road to continue towards Montenegro towards Albania and Greece, and to connect that part, it is absolutely something that is commendable and that I believe will get support from everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80732	We have a line further Mr. Boro Grubisic. Nothing. Thank you. We have Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Matušić, you've actually made excellent arguments about the construction of the Pelješko bridge as an infrastructure facility, an economic facility, you've spoken, and I recognized in your debate and protected coastal belt of the sea, I also recognized the value of the land, etc. and so much closer. But you also mentioned Mr. Matušić with only one word of ferry. Please explain to the Croatian public this thought that an alternative to one Pelješke Bridge could be the construction of ferrys. I don't think there's anything to talk about. But I'll tell you what, and we heard through the debate, my colleague Maric was also talking about art paintings. I was in a situation this year when I went to visit my relatives in Cavtat that I had to go to the Ministry of Culture in the Conservatory Department in Sibenik and seek a solution, so I went into the administrative procedure to make sure that this art painting would not be alienated. So I definitely share the view that every Croat or Croat who sat in the car and traveled to Dubrovnik or Cavtat sees no alternative to the Pelješke bridge in ferry transport. If you have a different opinion, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80734	Thank you. Reply Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80735	Thank you. So we have to tell our colleagues this statement by the SDP that the Peljesac Bridge is replaced by two ferrys, I can only smile and say it's a giant nonsense, it's simply unsustainable, it's impossible for one such project to replace itself with the introduction of two ferrys. After all, the entire infrastructure needs to be built and for those ferrys, so that structure that goes to the bridge, that road needs to be made, all of it should be invested for what, for two ferrys. It's a total giant SDP nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80736	Thank you. We have further, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80737	I may have been funny to replicate like this in the bench, but I needed to share with you another aspect of the reason for building the Peles Bridge. So, I had one experience a few months ago I found myself on the evening flight of Zagreb-Dubrovnik and during the summer we were told that we would not land in Dubrovnik but would land in Split because of the storm that escalated. On the flight, there was a defender of Dubrovnik, a defender... It's a name, I'm not going to say here right now. [[You don't understand.]] When he found out he was going to land in Split and he couldn't make it to Dubrovnik that night because he didn't want to in the context of the charges, it was just the time of that noise around our defender Purda, so he didn't want to go across the border. He got on a plane to me, it's all your fault, you didn't finish the Pelesian Bridge, I don't want to cross tonight, Neum. He stayed asleep in Split. That's another aspect. We talked all about economic, traffic, but this aspect should also be taken into account. You can imagine that there are such people in Dubrovnik who have been honorably defending our city.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80738	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80739	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Matušić, you spoke of the Peljesk Bridge, of course. In my earlier replica, I told my colleague Shuica that I would not, of course, like Dubrovnik to experience the fate of Kotor. I have challenged here among colleagues of different kinds of questions and I am obliged to explain what I wanted to say, and this also tells how much less we are in one way familiar with the problem of the Peljega Bridge. In particular, if we tie any part of the body to the tire and stop the bloodstream in the long term, or in one, you who are in medicine know better, in one time there will be death of that tissue. Now, I see this Peljek Bridge as a stent in the Croatian bloodstream and that's very important. And just what Mr. Grubisic mentioned earlier, it says how much we don't know strategy or our benefit. The railway from Gabela to Dubrovnik, more specifically from Gabela to Zelenika, was created in two years, in 1901, by Francis Joseph, for one single reason, to be strategically mastered by Boko Kotorski before the Russian Empire. Why does it matter? In the strategy are all the corridors set, it is the corridor of the Adriatic-Ionian road, and the railroad that was abolished in '76. the second Belgrade-Bar railway was opened, etc. It has resulted in the emigration of 10,000 Croats from eastern Herzegovina, from Dubrovnik's demographic divide. And when all this is looked at and seen together, then stands this remark of mine and my fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80740	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80741	Thank you. Comrade Vukić, you have said very vividly about stent, the Pelješa Bridge. I agree with you, it can really be understood and accepted, especially when we take into account historical facts, and the fact is that great Serbian aggression was first focused on the Virovitica-Karlovac-Karlobag line that later when it did not, when she saw that it could not succeed in trying at least that southern part of the secession, so by attacking Neretva, cutting off actually that whole part of the south of Croatia and thus actually realising its huge Serbian aspirations. Therefore, these are useful facts and they continue to live in the heads of some who continue to dream of great Serbia and certainly if we also talk about this aspect of the bridge it is important in this respect and let's put it plainly. It is also important for the defence if you want the Croatian South and for the communication of the Croatian South with the queen of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80742	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Bagaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80743	Thank you, Mr. President. I would start my presentation on this matter by finding that the connection in itself is welcome regardless of the type and form, regardless of whether it is a connection between people, cities, countries, nations and as such, I am speaking regardless of the connection of any other activity, in this case economic, scientific, tourism and everything else. States, modern states are now seeking to bring all the contents in the country closer to their citizens in such a way as to be available to them and to be in the service of their people. Some of them also have the concept that from any part of the country their resident can arrive at any place within an hour in any way and return home in one day. So it's in its own way the policy that needs to be followed and I think that this bill that we're talking about right now actually supports that position. On this issue, therefore, the construction of VC corridors, except for representatives from all Croatian counties, are of course both representatives from Bosnia and Herzegovina are particularly interested in Croatia, but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in the areas in which Croats live. However, regardless of where Croats or other peoples live in BiH, the connection between BiH itself is important, Croatia's connection with BiH is important, too, but it should all be seen together in the context of Croatia's entry into the European Union tomorrow and better integration of BiH with the rest of Europe and the world. Therefore, in this context it should be kept in mind that it is the interest of every citizen, regardless of where he is, in Croatia or in BiH. I'd actually make a little parallel right now. When we observe corridor VC, when we observe where it passes through BiH, it can be a sort of assessment of BiH's policy and government, so on the relationship to the VC corridor. In relation to her attitude towards highways and connection, Croatia passed the exam with the highest score, no one can dispute, whoever passes the Croatian highways and no matter where people come from. Here I was driving from Tomislavgrad to Zagreb with my friend Domagoj Šol, a longtime representative in the Canadian Parliament and our former consul in Chicago. He told me I've been driving all over the world, I haven't seen a better road anywhere, a highway than the one we're driving now. So that's the opinion of many others. But did BiH pass the test according to the VC corridor, if it passed. The Federal Government, or the Council of Ministers, has made a decision based on expert expertise where, etc. The European Bank has followed all this and wanted to invest money, and wants to invest money, but the Sarajevo bypass is almost 10 years, and when it comes to the VC corridor, it goes to politicise on the issue of where it will go because it has indeed become a policy issue. Fortunately, it will not be possible to comply with those requirements that ultimately and European interest and... Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and this is the connection in Ploča directly, but the proof of where Bosnia and Herzegovina is still, unfortunately, is that in today's debate, in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament under point 11 here, I see the debate about almost the same thing, but not in a way that is discussed there as we discuss it, so we will make certain decisions that will result, but unfortunately there is still a debate there on the problem of achieving what should be clear and unequivocally. [[You don't understand.]] What is the test by me after this debate here and in general the Republic of Croatia, namely the test of politics and the test of hair towards the state itself, so other than this corridor of the VC, i.e. the highway that I said... The government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the state of Croatia invested, could then be parallel to this test for Bosnia and Herzegovina's waterway bridge. [[You don't understand.]] In both cases, this is a real measure, which is the government's attitude towards the people and the state, so the irresponsibility of the authorities unfortunately in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards this issue is more than evident, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, some political parties show a very high level of irresponsibility towards this test for Croatia, which is the Pelje bridge. Just what we just heard from colleagues and colleagues who spoke about the importance of connecting Dubrovnik with the rest of the Republic of Croatia not only from the traffic, I do not know the economic one, but from each other, even symbolic. So it's not the same if you can normally travel I don't know in every corner of the state or you have to go through certain barriers, obstacles, no matter how friendly relationships were, I don't know either one or two places to stop and show off my identification documents and thus actually pass space. I would conclude my presentation in the following way, connecting Posavina, Bosnia and Herzegovina is the interest of all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, connecting the entire Republic of Croatia with the rest as someone here has said to one beautiful remnant in fact that Dubrovnik is also the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Connecting all of these spaces is, in fact, the overall interest of both the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina at the end and the European interest. And in this context, no one is normal, no one is responsible, no one is aware of the people and the state can be against it, but it can only be supported, so I am doing so and I am supporting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80744	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80745	Thank you very much. You spoke about the VC corridor, and you spoke about what it means for both the Republic of Croatia and what it means for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, Croatia's south, Croatia's north, Mr Maric spoke of rich countries with rich infrastructure, hope when a complete corridor of the VC is done that we will be able to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is also a rich country, that Croats in it if God wants to live well, but this is a chance to invite all those who do, and it is about building a VC corridor to speed up this project, not to stop it systematically, not to choose shares in Bosnia and Herzegovina that would work, which would not, and this is also an opportunity to call on the Croatian construction operation that made you say the most beautiful and best highway in this part of Europe, to participate in the construction of a very demanding route through Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80746	Thank you. Answer Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80747	I thank my colleague Vukic. I would say it again, and that is the answer to your replica, the finding that the relationship to the VC corridor is actually a test, a test of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards itself, a test of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the responsibility of the authorities to the peoples living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without a quality connection between Bosnia and Herzegovina, I speak within myself, when I say so, I mean Posavina, central Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no integration, no progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole as a state, and without connecting Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole with integration in this case with the Republic of Croatia and the rest of Europe there is no progress in general terms. Therefore, no one can reason for some of the most political reasons, and they went to this level that even disputed the connection of this VC corridor to Ploče, so what heart I don't even know is the connection at the world level, because it was a port that was, and so it went to that extent that it even went with the suggestions why, for example. It wouldn't go to Neum, so it's a nice tourist resort, and I don't know what highways do as a final point, and nobody knows it alive. So thank God that he finally came to his senses, that it was understood and understood and hoped that in fact politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina would understand that in a way that he would take responsibility against this issue and in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this case and of all the people who live there who accept and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80748	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's Ms. Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80749	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I say that I will support the adoption of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the completion of the VC corridor project, with the final proposal for a law. The implementation of the guarantee contract is therefore not required by the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, apart from the potential financial obligation to repay loans in the form of guarantees. The European Investment Bank, as we have heard, provides a 60m-euro loan with a 20-year repayment period with a start of 5 years and will therefore be used to finance construction works. The term of use of the loan is therefore 31 December 2014. It has been said here that we at the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law. The colleagues from the southern part of Croatia talked about the advantages which means completing the Corridor VC, Mr Ivan Bagarić spoke about the advantages that brings to the completion of the Corridor of the VC and of the citizens of BiH, and I would briefly remind myself of what it means to complete the Corridor VC for us in Slavonia and Baranja. It is certain that the end of this project will have great opportunities for development, strengthening the position of Slavonia and Baranja and the entire eastern Croatia. That's what this finished part of the Corridor VC is saying from Osijek to the Middles, which is in the total length of 55.5 km. In 2007, it ended in 23 km long, the second Đakovo-Osjek section in the length of 32.5 km and should be said that it is, recalling that the total value of the shares already executed was more than a billion and 700 million kuna. What does he show? It shows that this finished part represents the road corner of the eastern part of the state, connects Osijek-Baranja County to Corridor 10 on the Zagreb-Lipovac highway and this shows that what I have already told us is therefore closer to Zagreb. In just 2.5 hours of safe driving to Zagreb instead of the last 4 hours when we went across the Podravska highway. So Corridor VC is really important to us. And we advocate, therefore, representatives of Slavonia and Baranja, we stand here to finish. But HDZ, so SDP and HNS don't matter to them. They consider it an irrelevant law, but indeed we who see advantages and who see the government's efforts can appreciate it. Therefore, the completion of this road corridor of the VC, apart from a shorter, faster and more pleasant journey between the eastern and western and the northern and southern and the coastal parts of Croatia, will certainly contribute to the economic development of the landscapes it is going through. Thus, it will allow us from Slavonia, but not just us and tourists from Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland and other northern European countries to reach the Central Adriatic much faster and safer. So we won't have to cross all of Croatia on the highway from Osijek to Split anymore, but we'll be able to do it in 3 hours and about 300 km. The same quality road connection will increase the traffic of goods and provide other secondary benefits in areas passing by the Corridor VC. I would also like to say that the completion of Corridor VC is also important for the city of Osijek, the entire eastern Slavonia, because the city of Osijek has always been a significant centre, a crossroads on the road to the exchange of goods in the east and west, north and south, and today it is a modern Central European city with many different natural and tourist resources and has certainly envious economic and human potentials for all kinds of development. This traffic route, the completion of Corridor VC will give a significant boost in the development of tourist sites of which the most prominent nature park Kopački rit, Bizovačka spa, the town of Osijek itself, but many other and smaller towns near the Djakovo corridor, Beli Manastir, Valpovo, Našice and others. That this is also the fact that connecting Osijek with Zagreb with the modern highway has already contributed to reviving economic activity, increasing the number of tourists and developing rural tourism in this part of Croatia, and better transport integration has made it possible for more rapid rolling of goods, attracting investors and entrepreneurs from other parts of Croatia, abroad due to a number of comparative advantages this area offers. Such as the price of raw materials, accessibility to natural resources, low labour prices, various tax breaks. And what Mr. Matusic was saying is certain that there will also be a higher land price along with the Corridor VC itself. Indeed, these are all the many reasons why this completion of Corridor VC should continue, end and we certainly representatives from Slavonia and Baranja, from Osijek-Baranja County from HDZ, we will continue to advocate this here with our Vice President Mr. Seks and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80750	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Madam Representative, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Majdenic, I listened very carefully to your presentations and I agree with him. In fact, I'd like to repeat what my colleague Jambo said today that from yesterday to today, if we had brought in a large portion, we would have discussed in reality five major points of the agenda. It is a large package of laws that are important for the future, but economic recovery of Croatia, both in the continental and southern parts. What I wanted to say was how important it is for us who are not from Slavonia and Baranja, but in Zagreb, we are one and the speed of arrival in Slavonia and Baranja not only for some economic but for what you have said for tourist reasons. But I would also like to say that this government is doing its promises, so here's a recently opened campus, it's one of the most beautiful European knowledge buildings in the reality of the Faculty of Agriculture, or agricultural college. And yesterday we watched in Valpovo the Cultural Center was opened. Only those who live in such smaller cities know what that means for the population of that region. So let's say the bridge over the Drava is also one of the important investments of this government. So here's this Corridor VC. Here's what I just wanted to make a little contribution to how we who don't live in Slavonia and Baranja, but we love her, we love her as much as Croatia, and we're glad that this county of ours has really moved him in this economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80752	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mrs. Sumrak, I agree with you that here are these last days that we discussed really important laws in the Croatian Parliament. And I think that all MPs should be here to debate because the Croatian Parliament should work until the last day, that these laws that are now passed are important and important for citizens and therefore I don't think anyone has the right not to come here and not to debate and not to suggest what they mean. So those who aren't there obviously don't care. As for investments in Osijek-Baranja County, indeed large funds have been invested in Osijek-Baranja County and related to entrepreneurship zones with infrastructure, water supply, the Prime Minister said that during the current morning and indeed throughout this mandate it is seen how much is invested in Osijek-Baranja County in Slavonia. Thus, there is no claim at all that stone foundations have been laid in recent days. The cornerstones lay a large part long before, and now they end. You said yesterday we opened a Cultural Centre in Valpovo, which is really a valuable investment for the town itself, Valpovo, it started five years ago, but it's over. That testifies how this government works. So, that time when it's hard to find money but here's for culture and for everything that goes on, you talked about the education campus is invested in Slavonia and Baranja accordingly, there really is no claim that in Slavonia and Baranja, on the contrary in Slavonia and Baranja is really investing and the government has an understanding for the needs of citizens of Osijek and Baranja and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80754	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80755	Thank you very much. Well, you know very well, colleagues, that big funds are being invested in Slavonia and Baranja, and we know it very well on the ground, both in Slavonia and throughout our territory, we must all remember together what was the condition of Slavonia and Baranja after the Homeland War, so what was Slavonia and Baranja in during the former state. These were cereals from which only food was exported, nothing was ever invested, I don't remember, and my parents didn't remember any investments in road construction in western Slavonia and in the area of the county we live in today. We were not at zero, not equal to others but we were in the thick minus, and then the Homeland War happened to us, fortunately we won the Homeland War, but with great human and material losses, Pakrac, Vukovar and until Osijek, there were major casualties, material losses, destruction of municipal infrastructure, and we were once again in the fat minus compared to the rest of Croatia. The large investments that come today in Slavonia and Baranja are trying to achieve investments and investments evenly are, but the development itself to raise Slavonia and Baranja to the same level as some more developed parts of Croatia will need more funding. This is one big opportunity for Baranja for Slavonia, this corridor VC, an opportunity that we must all take advantage of together, but it is also an opportunity to have the status of an undeveloped area according to the standards and assessments of the European Union where we will be able to withdraw significantly greater funds from the Eurospec funds than the rest of Croatia. We need to prepare projects both in road construction and water supply and in draining, in economic development, social infrastructure, we will have a greater opportunity because of this minus that we are in today because of everything I have said from closer to Croatia's history to withdraw significantly larger funds and this is irrevocable compared to the rest of Croatia. Of course, it is also an opportunity to prepare quality projects in road construction and work on units of local self-government and Croatian roads, with restoring ministries, with the counties that you better prepare for the years ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80756	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are a fellow Huška Slavonac, so you described very well how it was before 90th, and you said that during the war in Slavonia and Baranja, when everyone agreed and helped together, you contributed to the construction of the Republic of Croatia and to the construction of our both Slavonia and Baranja and all of Croatia. Sure enough, you talked about Croatia's entry into the European Union, of course there are great potentials, what is on us representatives of all of us from Slavonia and Baranja, to which I would especially appeal that we all work together to make the most of the units of local self-government, from the municipalities of cities and districts at the state level to advocate projects, to give information to our citizens, indeed there will be great resources and we must not waste time in some bickering, it does no good to anyone. If we love our citizens, if we want to help, then we will take advantage of these potentials, find ourselves together, give information that they participate in preparing projects already now, because once we enter, we will have to have finished projects. Therefore, the funds will be, there will be an even greater scope, those people who will be able to use it, those entrepreneurs so I really appeal to all representatives of Slavonia and Baranja, Osijek-Baranja County to make every effort to create one positive atmosphere and indeed contribute in the best possible way for our citizens, both Slavonia and Baranja, Osijek-Baranja County, Požeko-Slavonski and all other counties and our entire Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80758	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is indeed a pleasure to listen to this interesting topic today that is not political, but at the same time we have a representative who wants to politicise this topic, which is very interesting. I would not dare say, but I would argue, that a revolution has been made in the construction of Croatian roads for 10 years. Indeed a revolution because what has happened in Croatia especially since the Croatian Democratic Community was in power 8 years ago and so far with coalition partners has really done something that everyone recognizes, especially those who come from the side. Unfortunately, we have today and here people in parliament who want to deny everything that has been built so far. I am especially proud that there has been a lot of construction in Slavonia, not only on highways but also on state roads. These are indeed the funds that have been invested so far, invaluable values and, at the same time, when they say that individual shares are built exclusively in pre-election times, then we can say in the best possible way that the construction of road construction in Croatia takes more than 10 years. Therefore, not certain shares were opened in pre-election time but the works were opened when the conditions were met. The best indicator is not only on this project that we're talking about today, Corridor VC, but also on public roads in general. We've built so many roads of state, we've built so many highways, and like I said, we can be proud of. Dear friends, we have been declared and our tunnels have been declared the best tunnels in Europe. Tell me all of you who travel, where highways are built in such a way as in Croatia. And what is even more important is the maintenance of these same Croatian highways. Gentlemen, I have traveled through Europe nowhere to see whether in summer or winter, Croatian roads are better maintained than in Croatia. This is an indicator in the winter service of the summer days of slaughter, in Austria, Germany, Italy grass to its knees, not to mention garbage, when you enter a great city of Rome, when you enter other cities and then we still have the courage to say that it is not good, we accuse some people, and these people really know how to make the best road in Europe today. And that's why they envy us, and we're the only ones here who don't see what we've done so far. Not all of them, of course, but individuals who politicise and say that the road towards the Middles is a political road and that it opens in pre-election time. The works began in June on the same stock and were performed by the Slavonic company Osijek Koteks. We're aware that we're still years old when the first president is Dr. Franjo Tudjman began work on the construction of the tunnel of St. The deadline of 16 August on Rokovo, after the release, or after the Action "Masslenica". That's when we started big projects, the truth with the companies that gave us conditions because we couldn't get to the capital, so we had to take the other Bechtel companies, and I don't know what other companies we had to. But at the same time, our road construction has been so equipped over a very short period of time that there is no object that our operatives can't do today. The best way to prove it is because the other day I was on the bridge over Drava in Osijek, and that is the best indicator of how to build such a large building that is 2.5 km long. And this is just another indicator that Croatia is ready today to do all the demanding jobs, as well as the Pelješki bridge which is an extremely complex project. Therefore, Croatia's construction companies will also give their best and they will certainly build it. And that is why I support such an object that connects Croatia because we may not even know how much road construction means in Croatia, and in the best possible way we show because this number of tourists would certainly not have been in Croatia if we had not had road construction. I will deal with perhaps some data and say I won't talk about this loan that you've all talked about, so that 120 billion EBRD and the EIB so it's a loan here lately that Croatia has a negative rating in the world, so those people who work hard there just got a loan on the most favourable terms, and that loan is somewhere around 3% so total costs. Dear friends, you can't get cheaper in Europe today than this loan is and that's just another indicator of taking care of everything. We also have to mention here that up until now it's built 32 kilometers on Corridor VC, which totals 4 billion kuna. Also there are 35km left to build highways from Osijek to Hungary, and it will also cost about 200m euros or approximately a billion and a half kuna. Also the Bridge on the Drava, which is a total length of 2.5 km, costs a billion kuna. I must therefore point out that up to now, more than 50 km of tunnels have been built in Croatia. Dear friends, it's a really big figure in a mile but certainly looking at financial and also a demanding project. What's important is also to say that on section A3 we're making the biggest incomes, the state secrets, but you know how many supporters there were when we talked about section A1. What do we need that for? The road is empty, the road is empty. And what's on the same road today without saying what's at the time of the tourist season? This is what they say today about Corridor VC, but respected friends, we must build it to develop our own economy and, indeed, by building road construction, make a contribution to the development of both the local population and all those who use that share. And finally let me say that so far more than 30 billion kuna has been invested in road construction. And what's most important now, Mr. Grubisic and his colleague, we didn't hire children or anyone. I just have to tell you because you said we owed the children and the generations. No, I don't. This is a piece of information you may not have known. The revenues from road construction and revenue of 0.60 lips from fuel cover the total payment of our loans or wars that Croatian highways have raised. Croatian highways are today independent, they are not on the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is an indication that we are building properly and that with these means we can fully return what we are in charge of, and that we will not assign our children or our generations at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80760	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lucic, you have elaborated in your debate how much the Croatian state has invested in building roads and highways not only in Slavonia but in the territory of Croatia. But since you and I are also representatives of Slavonia, you from Požesko-Slavonska, from Brod-Posavina County, so colleague Majdenić and Salapić from Osijek-Baranja County, I would say that they are not, forgive the Vice-President, twice the Vice President and you are from Slavonia, so I apologize, that they are not Croatian state investments as far as Slavonia is concerned only in road construction. I'd just like to mention education, primary, secondary, higher education, school building, university building, sports hall construction. How much the Croatian state has invested in water supply, in that burning problem of our Slavonia in the construction of the water supply system of draining. We want to mention the Eastern Slavonia regional water line, we want to mention the IPA project in the town of Slavonski Brod, the construction of the water supply of the drain with the construction of a 30m-euro waste water purifier, investment in health care. And my colleague, we would also like to mention the Danube-Sava Channel, which is important for the future development of our Slavonia. And I agree with my colleague that you have responded to those who say that these roads and these loans will be paid by our children, but those same roads will also be driven by their children, and that this shorter payment will help us with all the economic advantages and economic gains that will come to our Slavonia and our Croatia by building this infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80762	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80763	I absolutely agree with your thinking because it is not only invested in road construction, we invested, here is our colleague Mr. Biskupić and former minister who also contributed to the construction of cultural facilities. Among other things, it is also built in the Pleternica library, which is worth over 8 million kuna or better spoken with the equipment and environment of 10 million kuna. Since we also have library for over 100 years, which is exactly what the ministry recognized, but not only that Ministry but also the other ministries that have just contributed. I was also talking here on purpose about state roads, no matter what the subject is today, but the theme of road construction is that we don't all talk about corridor VC. So no one happier than me if anything is being built in Slavonia, and that is why we are during these 8 years of ruling, HDZ is in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially here now making a contribution through the construction of both the state and the highway. I must also point out that 5.6 years ago in the Croatian highways was built annually for 5 billion kuna, this is what the secretary of state knows, also over 2 billion in Croatian roads. Well, gentlemen, seven billion kunas were made annually in the Croatian highways. That's where everyone worked, and the Ministry of Culture because there were studies of certain routes, that's where all our builders worked. Well, gentlemen, we know that a year and a few days ago we set ourselves on fire in a global and economic crisis. There was no job, but the launch of these investments has all worked out and everyone hopes for a good result and a job. Because look, there's not enough work to do today, but by starting these investments, everyone's happy and everyone's gonna have work to do, which is very important for our construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80764	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Lucic, you said, and that led me to the replica, that some people wanted to politicize the subject to complain to us. Well, that's what those who say exactly what they're doing. It reminded me of last night's performance by Mr. Radiir Cacic in Sisak, who you can imagine promised to finish the Sisak-Zagreb highway, precisely that highway he had when he was minister of construction, that highway from which he and his colleague Vidovic were making fun of four years ago, digging for shovels and hacks on the Sisak Siak Bridge at the entrance to Sisak where a colleague of Tonino Picula in Velika Gorica was spending child, plastic toys, assuring us that the highway would never reach Sisak. Well, my dear Siseni, colleague Lucic, the highway arrived in front of Sisak, she will move on because this coalition government and the government, headed by the HDZ, promised her to the Sicenians and began construction. Some of them are already driving along the highway, and those who then made fun of and played with banter and shovels do not promise Sišteni anything, because if they come to the rule of Sishkeni, they know that there will be nothing from that highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80766	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, replica. Replication response, excuse me. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80767	I already thought, Vice President, that you'd forgotten me. counterpart Roksandic, it is another government project headed by HDZ. Dear friends, there are no projects in Croatia, and today this is being apostrophe to use various works and laying cornerstones without the government ending it in the last eight years. It's the best indicator of all of us coming from local self-government units. So it is in my area of Požeko-Slavon County where the Croatian roads are, unfortunately we do not have highways but we have highway A3 where we from Pleternica or Požega for 1.30 hours are in Zagreb. It's a project that was built a long time ago. And of course the south of Croatia deserves to have its own highway, and you too, Mrs. Roksandic, also deserve that road in Sisak, and that is exactly the project of this government that has not made a promise, but has just joined this great project. And also other highways and towards Koprivnica, of course built at a certain point, how much money you have. We are witnessing that a year and a half ago because of the global and economic crisis, Croatia could not afford it, it could not reach quality means, and even at a given time to bridge those projects that we had to complete, we had to pay at a high interest rate which we later in both Croatian highways and Croatian roads refinanced and converted the loan at a far lower interest rate. So I agree that the government that promises to do something will end, what they will end up doing when we know and how we designed and how we got the license and how we started the works, and we will certainly know it and bring it to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80768	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lucic, we in both Herzegovina and Bosnia also deserve a nice and quality highway. So this is one project that connects to each other and does what it does. You talked about the importance, the safety, the beauty of Croatian highways. I would add that the beauty of a highway depends first and on the ambience it goes through. I think that the nuance of all seasons, winters, summers, springs can hardly be seen anywhere as travelling on the Croatian highway, and in fact they are the most beautiful developmental for all those who come to Croatia and who, from them, are passing through Croatia. Thus, the highway in this case is a kind of promotion of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is recognised as a tourist country and this beauty and harmony is therefore related to the beauty of the landscape through which the highway passes is significant. I think there's more diversity, and there's hardly any space. I believe that when highways are made through Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they will shine, that the beauty of Posavina and Bosnia and Herzegovina will open, and that will actually be one whole that will be available to all people who come here, who will serve these people and therefore my support and your debate, but also support those who decide in Bosnia and Herzegovina to finally make a decision and to end the corridor of the VC, to access the construction of the VC corridor through Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally, Mr. Vice President, if you'll allow me, it's important and beautiful, it's important and it's all important, but it's important and it's important and it's important to be safe on these roads, and I think it's always important from this place because we're all driving, and we're always talking again about the importance of traffic safety and in some ways to encourage people to be responsible for themselves and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80770	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80771	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bagariæ absolutely agrees with you, because this is a road that will really be as beautiful as A1 and A3, because the VC corridor that goes, I think we said and I think it goes all the way from Ukraine through Hungary, all the way to the port of Ploca, it is indeed a landscape in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well esteemed friends, we have companies today that design this road corridor VC in Bosnia that come from Croatia, today we have companies from Croatia that are building just the road in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is another opportunity for this building that today or yesterday was without a job to have a future and can plan certain works. Today, our companies have agreed not to know what they are, but these are the amounts that are moving 20, 30, 50 or I don't know how many million euros exactly on those shares we're talking about today. And therefore, however I support the construction of highways in Croatia, I support and connect our highway from Hungary, so with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the automatic exit to the port of Ploče or below Metkovic, so I absolutely agree with this finding and the construction of roads both in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a guarantee of the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80772	Mr. Representative Davor Huška, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80773	Here is my colleague Lucic and I will return to the past from 20, 25 years ago in just one other context, thinking about investments in infrastructure, and especially in road construction in some parts of Croatia, in certain cities and in some places which were too Croatian in the former country, and among these places is your Croatian Pleternica, and always Croatia's Pleternica, which in those times simply could not reach more serious assets than in some parts of the settlement in my town where most of the Croatian population lived, but in the infrastructure, in road construction was particularly measurable and visible, because we had macadam in Croatian settlements, while in some other parts of Croatia related to the national liberation struggle and some other residents at the time paved, built, we spent common money. Fortunately, we have Croatia today and there are no more such criteria, and that is why here and in your Pleternica there is a complete renaissance in the construction of municipal infrastructure, especially in the construction of road infrastructure, and so in other parts of Croatia, which were too Croatian in the former country and in which the former state did not want to invest in construction, but here is God thanks and to the Croatian people all of this has changed over the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80774	And Mr. Representative. The answer to the line, yes, yes. [[Intruder: Replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80775	Comrade Huška, we come from Požega-Slavon County so we both know the problem of road construction and, as I said in my presentation, however it is in the highways and in the state roads in Požega-Slavon County, the revolution just happened. Not only in Pleternica, but also in Pakrac, Lipik, on the state roads D38, 522, D49, we have roads we've been talking about for 20 years,... We don't know how many people there, but by opening this road, we've kept that existing population and some people are coming back through various forms. [[You don't understand.]] I therefore fully agree that every kuna invested in the Croatian road is a kuna that guarantees the future. And what may also be important to say, we are at the end of the construction of the highway, what I am particularly pleased about, and that is also the ministry headed by our minister and secretary of state, now they are already thinking that once we finish the highways we will have the opportunity and especially through these 0.60 drops of fuel, we will invest far more tomorrow in state roads. However we have progressed in the construction of highways, with these additional means when we direct them to state roads, we will certainly in a short period of time enable not only to repair but to build new state roads that will give us far more security and preserve each of them from any accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80776	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucic, you were talking about politics in the debate. It's best that you forbid us to talk so we don't say anything, but your debate is just a political debate. Namely, when you heard everything you said, and supported by your colleague Susan Bilić Vardić, it would turn out that your County is a požega-slavonian one of our counties really a flowering county. Unfortunately, Požeko-Slavonska is one of our county's truly booming counties, unfortunately it is the last in competitiveness in the Republic of Croatia. And when it comes to the construction of other infrastructure facilities, then the best example, when already colleague Vardić drags by language, a school in Garcino whose roof boards were taken to another school and now rains. But we're not talking about schools, we're talking about highways. I spoke and pointed out in my speech that it was a matter of disproportionateness in the timing of the construction of highways in Slavonia. So, in the timing of building highways in Croatia and the distribution of these highways. So, count the miles of highways on the second, I will no longer talk about Dalmatia and Istria, so on the other corners of Croatia and the number of kilometers in Slavonia. So that's what I'm talking about. So, I'm not politicizing anything, I'm stating the facts, right? And as for borrowing, don't tell me we don't owe anything and we don't owe anyone, and we all know exactly what kind of economic and financial situation we are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80778	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80779	So, don't get me wrong, I don't want to pollemise, I don't want any politics right now, I just wanted to tell you that Croatia doesn't owe so long-term children, generations, but I wanted to say that of those loans we took from the toll revenue and 0,60 lips we are able to repay our obligations and we are doing so today. And I'm telling you that Croatian highways are not on the government budget of the Republic of Croatia but are on their own. That was the goal of telling you, and nothing else at all. Therefore, we must not deceive the public here how Croatia owes itself to build roads when we can return it ourselves and we can repay it. That's what's important to say. And as for construction in Slavonia, you can't turn the highway into a village now or I don't know what. The road goes, the highway goes where. And in Slavonia no longer needs roads, highways, after building corridors. And at the same time as I said, there will be a turn of national roads when we will certainly build it in Slavonia and when the time will come. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80780	HDSSB Club,... Oh, peace, gentlemen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80781	Oh my God, on the ninth hour Jesus cried out "Ellie, Eli Lama sabachtani" my God, my God, why did you leave me. If I didn't testify to this, I wouldn't believe something like this was possible. Instead of talking about Corridor VC and the questions asked why, for 8 months from February to October, he collected this project for 18.9m euros in answers. Instead of getting an answer to the question raised from the debate, what about the promised 150m euros and the beginning of the work, Mr. Vice President Shakespeare, on the Baranja part of the Corridor VC that you announced would begin at 9 months? It's not gonna happen. We listen here to praise this government and to the relationship to Slavonia and Baranja. We listen to the praises of what has been done for Slavonia and Baranja. But we are listening to even more incredible statements that this government has committed a revolution. You've made one revolution, you've revolutionized the robbery of your own people and state-owned companies. If someone like an owl puts his head in the sand so don't fool your own people. So today here are the rope portals, the rope portals about the prosecution of HDZ by the DORH. So you're talking about the revolution, today the counter-revolution against the robbery that HDZ has committed here has begun and you keep repeating it. You're saying you didn't assign the Croatian people, our children. Not that you're in charge of our children, but you've also robbed both old and young, male and female, and children and grandchildren and great-grandkids.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80782	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80783	So you're talking about it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80784	Thank you, that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80785	Well, you won't go to the barracks because you don't get the Remetinect killed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80786	I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80787	I don't know where you're gonna hold the next press because it's gonna take away your... in the Square of Fascism Victims [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80788	I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80789	You can only hold the next press at Remitance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80790	I take away your word
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80791	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80792	I'm interrupting the session. After taking away the words and reminders, I am giving you a measure of distance from the session during this session so that you will no longer speak a word in this assembly for the term of office of this Assembly. ... Come on out of the assembly room. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, come on. ... Peace. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. ... I'm closing the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, get this man out of the assembly. Take him out. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80793	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Completion Project of Corridor VC, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 898, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Completion Project of Corridor VC. Please, let's get involved and vote on the final draft of the law. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80794	- Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Areas and Seats of the State Lawyers - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office United debate. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80795	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of the State Lawyers addresses the issue of real and local competences for representing state attorneys before administrative courts. At 1.01.2012, the administrative trial in the Republic of Croatia was resolved in a way that was resolved in the first degree by the 4 administrative courts and in the second instance by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates the issue of jurisdiction, meaning the County State Attorney's Offices represent before the administrative courts of the Republic of Croatia, and the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneys partially regulates the same issue and regulates the issue of the transfer of state lawyers and the indeterminateness of certain provisions in the appointment of state lawyers. Thank you. The proposed amendments are also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80796	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80797	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 902. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80798	- Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Areas and Seats of the State Lawyers - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office United debate. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80799	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of the State Lawyers addresses the issue of real and local competences for representing state attorneys before administrative courts. At 1.01.2012, the administrative trial in the Republic of Croatia was resolved in a way that was resolved in the first degree by the 4 administrative courts and in the second instance by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates the issue of jurisdiction, meaning the County State Attorney's Offices represent before the administrative courts of the Republic of Croatia, and the State's Attorney's Office represents the Republic of Croatia before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneys partially regulates the same issue and regulates the issue of the transfer of state lawyers and the indeterminateness of certain provisions in the appointment of state lawyers. Thank you. The proposed amendments are also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80800	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80801	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 903. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted by the applicant and then became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. And this final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80802	We are going to the next united point - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Courts - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council of the State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80803	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the State Judicial Council provides for certain provisions on the transfer of judges and the Law on Courts to the Law on the State Judicial Council and has been clarified in a way that the decision is now taken by the State Judicial Council and not by the Minister and also by the Law on Courts clarifys certain issues of jurisdiction of administrative courts and of the High Court of Justice, and we also accept the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80804	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80805	We move on to the final draft law amending the Law on Courts. It's an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 904. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by attorney Anna Lovrin. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them, as it became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Courts. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. And this final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80806	We are going to the next united point - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Courts - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council of the State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80807	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the State Judicial Council provides for certain provisions on the transfer of judges and the Law on Courts to the Law on the State Judicial Council and has been clarified in a way that the decision is now taken by the State Judicial Council and not by the Minister and also by the Law on Courts clarifys certain issues of jurisdiction of administrative courts and of the High Court of Justice, and we also accept the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80808	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80809	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 905. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. And this final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80810	We are going to the next item - Final proposal for a law confirming the Regional Convention on pan-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. Ninety-six. The proposal does not intend to explain the proposal. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80811	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Regional Convention on paneuro-Mediterranean-privileged rules of origin. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. Ninety-six. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the regional convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin. Let's please get involved and vote on the final proposal of this law. And this final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80812	We are going to the next item - Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Infrastructure Development Project on the Islands and the Coast", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Ninety-seven. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80813	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project for the development of infrastructure on islands and coasts. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. Ninety-seven. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the development project on islands and coastal infrastructures. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This final bill was also adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80814	- Final draft law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 899. The proposer does not want to explain further. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80815	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 899. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. And this final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80816	- Final draft law supplementing the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914. The applicant does not wish to explain the proposal. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80817	We move on to the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, the Memorial of Days and Unworked Days in the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 914. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Holidays, the Memorial of Days and Unworked Days in the Republic of Croatia. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. And this bill, the final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80818	- Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on cross-border police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915. The applicant has no intention of further explaining the proposal. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80819	We are moving on to the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic in cross-border police cooperation. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 915. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on cross-border police cooperation. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This final bill was also adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80820	- Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2010 and a strategic document of the network of higher education and study programmes in the Republic of Croatia. Carrier: National Council for Higher Education. The applicant has no intention of explaining the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80821	We move to the 2010 Report on the work of the National Higher Education Council and the strategic document of the network of higher education and study programmes in the Republic of Croatia. The applicant of the National Council for Higher Education. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2010 and a strategic document of the networks of higher education and study programmes in the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Let's please get involved and vote on this conclusion. And this conclusion was accepted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80822	- A) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education - B) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80823	We move on to the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education. I b) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. This proposal for a decision under a) was adopted unanimously by 77 votes. And I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the National Council for Higher Education. Please, let's get involved and vote. And this proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80824	- A) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Science - B) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Science Council. It's not an intention to explain yourself. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80825	We move to a) to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the National Council for Science, and b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the National Science Council. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. First, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Science. Please, let's get involved and vote. This proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes. And secondly, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the National Council for Science. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. And this proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80826	- Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the control of procurement procedures. The applicant has no intention of proposing a decision. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80827	Proposal for a Decision on discharge of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. And this motion for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80828	- Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Social Council. Proposer: Minister of Health and Social Care. The proposal does not intend to explain the proposal for a decision. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80829	We move on to the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Social Council, the proposal is proposed by the Minister of Health and Social Care. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Social Council. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for this decision. And this motion for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80830	- A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Ombudsman for gender equality - B) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a lawyer for gender equality There is no intention to explain the proposal for a decision, there are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80831	We move to a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Advocate-General for Gender Equality, and b) Proposal for a Decision appointing the Advocate for Gender Equality. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the first Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. Let us please engage and vote on the motion for a solution. And this motion for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes. And secondly, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Advocate for Gender Equality. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for this decision. And this decision was reached unanimously with 77 votes. Make sure it's red where you're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80832	- Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2011. The applicant has no intention of explaining the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80833	We are moving to the Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2011. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2011 shall be adopted. Let's please get involved and vote on the report proposed. And this report was accepted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80834	- Declaration of support for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the constitutional change process. Proposer: Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivan Bagaric will explain the proposal for a declaration of support to the Croatian people in BiH and BiH in the constitutional change process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80835	Thank you, Mr. President. I apologize, give me a moment to get the material, unfortunately I took the wrong material.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80836	We're gonna stop for a while. Here you go, Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My apologies for when you want something from your heart and a lot of it, it's hard to come to. When you arrive, however, it is a special pleasure. So let me first read a brief explanation, and then I'll read the text of the declaration afterwards. An assessment of external assessors as well as Bosnian-Herzegovina politicians, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of national and political membership, because the Deion Peace Agreement has stopped the war without ensuring BiH's lasting stability and acceptable functioning until today. Annex 4 with its structural weaknesses in non-implementation of those with 7 related to the return of exiles and refugees leads to permanent delays in regular work both the state institutions and the Federation of BiH institutions, which unfortunately strengthens the inequality of constituent peoples in life. The result is that BiH gradually turns into a country of two internal and centralized identities with the full domination of one nation into one and the other in another entity with a tendency to constitutional and political materialisation of the Croatian people. The new BiH Constitution is the necessity and prerequisite for democratic development as well as the survival of BiH as a country of three equal peoples and all its citizens, as well as the condition of BiH's integration into European integration. Constitutional reform needs to ensure BiH's administrative and territorial constitution, which will be based on federal principles that BiH will make a modern, decentralised democratic state whose institutions will ensure the country's development and future. Constitutional reform and a new constitution require that the existing... BiH structure be upgraded to a more efficient and fairer one in which none of the constituent nations will be favored or discriminated against. It is necessary to ensure that all three constituent nations have equal rights and ensure full application of the European Conventions on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Interest in the Republic of Croatia is developing good neighbourly relations with BiH as well as support for BiH on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. The Republic of Croatia is the first country to internationally recognise BiH and oppose the aggression itself, provide humanitarian and any other support during the war. The Republic of BiH has the longest limit and makes it a unique geopolitical and economic space. The Croatian people in BiH are a constituent, sovereign and equal people. Unfortunately, it is precisely the Croats in BiH who suffered the most from the relatively pre-war population because of ethnic cleansing and all the consequences of the war that the people in BiH had not guaranteed practical i.e. We're carrying out equality. Therefore, strengthening all ties with BiH and Croats in BiH as well as supporting their return and survival in BiH as well as ensuring their full equality is a constitutional obligation and the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with this, the Republic of Croatia will do its utmost to preserve its constitutional status on the basis of a constitutional obligation but also obligations arising from the Deion Peace Agreement in co-operation with the international community. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has adopted a proposal for a declaration adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its thematic session. I am stressing here and I think it is very important that colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia have agreed to this text with colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. Therefore, we had the support of all committee members on our board. We now have the government's opinion, a positive one, which includes the opinion that BiH is a neighbouring, friendly state, the BiH state that Croatia encourages on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration, and BiH's countries of equal nations. The government of the Republic of Croatia also indicates that it clearly knows about this in a certain way in life the unimplemented equality of Croats in BiH and therefore encourages the adoption of this document. And allow me, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, to read the document of the declaration. "Departing from the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia to the parts of the Croatian people in other countries, Ten. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia's obligations stemming from the Deion Peace Agreement and international law based on the principles of good neighbourly relations and non-interference in other countries' affairs, the Republic of Croatia supports neighbouring, friendly and European BiH on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration, as a guarantee of the further democratic development of BiH states by three equal nations and citizens. The Republic of Croatia will assist Croatians and other constituent nations in their efforts to lead BiH to EU membership, according to its powers. Concerned by the selective implementation of the general peace agreement for BiH, whose signator and RS are as well as by the unrealising of its Annex 7 concerning the return of exiles and refugees, and from the belief that a thorough constitutional reform is a prerequisite for ensuring a stable, functional and democratic BiH in which the Croatian people, together with the other two peoples of Bosniaks and Serbs, will be sovereign, constitutional and equal throughout BiH. Croatian Parliament on the basis of Art. 120. The Rules of Procedure of the meeting held today brings the Declaration of Support to the Croatian People in BiH and BiH in the process of constitutional change. The Croatian Parliament welcomes and supports constitutional changes in BiH that will ensure the full legal and enforce equality of all constituent peoples of BiH, a prerequisite for ensuring BiH's co-existence and preservation of integrity as well as its integration into Euro-Atlantic integration. The Croatian Parliament supports the legitimate representatives of all three sovereign peoples of BiH, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs, in line with the highest democratic and civilizational norms in open dialogue, respecting human and national rights and freedoms founded by the UN Charter and European conventions, to organise sovereign BiH on the principles of respect for national, minority and civil rights as a contribution to lasting peace and stability. The Croatian Parliament supports the highest value of preserving the national and cultural identity of all three constituent nations and their mutual respect and respect for each other in a multinational BiH. The Croatian Parliament welcomes and supports the joint effort of the United States and the European Union and the International Community as a whole in the constitutional reform process in BiH and their engagement until the final adoption of the Constitution to ensure that BiH is a functional, democratic and prosperous state of equal peoples and equal citizens. The Croatian Parliament supports the Croats in BiH and their political representatives in the negotiations on changes to the Constitution in order to ensure full sovereignty and equality of the other two peoples, which can only be achieved with respect to the principle of equality and justice, and the Constitution guaranteeing the administrative and territorial structure of BiH that will equally regulate the principles of sovereignty, constitutionality and equality of all peoples, as well as the choice of its representatives in all institutions and all levels of government. Finally, the Croatian Parliament supports the return and stay of Croats to BiH as the most human and civilizational right, which is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia will continue to give full support to the return of Croats to BiH and to the achievement of all assumptions about their normal and free development. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80838	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On the agenda we have a Declaration of Support for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the process of constitutional change. This is a very important point, mainly regarding Croats in BiH. There were 850, 860,000 Croats living in BiH before the war. After the war, there are just over 400 thousand Croats. The number of Croatian people thanks to war destruction, injuries, persecution nearly halved. The Republic of Croatia, it is important here to say, is the first country in the world to recognise BiH. The Croatian people in BiH supported BiH's independence in the '92 referendum. A year. Croatian people through their internal organization and in '91, '92. was the first to stand up for BiH. The Croatian people signed a Washington agreement through their political representatives to regulate relations between the Croatian and Bosniak people, i.e. the Washington Agreement on the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Representatives of the Croatian people also signed the Dayton Peace Agreement and all its annexes. Today, so many years after Dayton, I will dare say that the Croatian people in BiH, unfortunately for the sake of change, suffers great consequences and its survival within BiH is questionable. That is why it is good for the Croatian Parliament today to bring one of these declarations to point to the difficult state of the Croatian regiment in BiH once again. With a large number of amendments to the Dayton Agreement, I will dare say, the rights of the Croatian people have been violated, and then it happens that Croatian representatives in the authorities choose others, i.e. they are not the product of the legitimate will of the Croatian electoral body in BiH and that is one ugly thing that is happening today to the Croatian people in BiH. The Croatian people through their, I repeat, political representatives in the BiH Parliament saved BiH once again, in a series of rescues from changes, constitutional changes there in 2006 that were at the expense of the Croatian people. We now have one state in a way that Croatian legitimate and legal political representatives do not participate in the work of the federal government, the BiH Council of Ministers has not been formed as well as a number of county governments. All this is causing one concern in the Croatian man today in BiH and his eyes are on Zagreb. And this declaration that speaks of support for the Croatian people in BiH, but also BiH around its constitutional changes and its Euro-Atlantic path is very important for the Croatian regiment in those areas. Lately, in certain diplomatic circles in BiH, constitutional changes are being considered, and the Federation's reform is also under consideration. The Federation is designed as an entity of 10 counties and each county has its own assembly, its own government, etc., its constitution. There are 13 constitutions in BiH today. This large-scale civil apparatus, of course, cannot function and constitutional changes that need to happen, and I personally think that BiH should write a new constitution in the same way solve the issues of all three peoples and that is what we often talk about as some kind of equality in BiH. BiH is unfortunately made in Dayton in a way that puts three peoples, or three bodies in two entities. Therefore, a nation should lose its soul, unfortunately, is meant to play the part of the Croatian people as the fewth and oldest people in BiH. And that's what the bad message of Dayton and everything that came up later from Dayton is. We expect enough reason to be found in the international community, which has been a mediator in Bosnia and Herzegovina all this time, and which will recognise the problem, which will finally realize that the Croats who in the last 20 years and the last and centuries before that have always been the ones who saved Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I will dare say here the only statesman who, most often attacked and through Croatian media, shared Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the only state in the world who was against the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what God's gonna do if the historians write, and they're gonna prove it. We are waiting in Bosnia and Herzegovina for one I will dare say hard time, because it takes a lot of brains and a lot of cold heads to come to a solution. Croatian political representatives who often attack to scuttle, etc. within Bosnia and Herzegovina, in search of a solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then for the Croatian people, they are ready to participate in the creation of the Constitution and support through this declaration will be very useful. I hope that in a very soon time there will be a constitution, a new Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is regrettable that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no constitution that has passed through Parliament, it has the Dayton Peace Agreement. And finally, from my debate and at the end of this term, I want to welcome all those in Bosnia and Herzegovina who, with their own faith, bear witness to Croatian identity, Croatian culture and who are not easy in history either today or today. And I'm going to end up with that famous difficult home without the love of a brother, Herzeg Bosnia without a country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80840	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80841	We are moving to the Declaration of Support for the Croatian People in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Constitutional Change Process, proposed by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Please, may I call for us to be more involved in the vote on this declaration, of course in accordance with your decisions. I am voting on the Declaration of Support for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the process of constitutional change. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a declaration. And this proposal for a declaration was accepted unanimously by 77 votes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80842	We move to another point - a proposal for a conclusion on the position of the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European countries with a special view to the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro. Proposer: Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The Committee proposed this on the basis of Articles 122 and 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government delivered an opinion. The president of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, Ivan Bagaric, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As in the previous point and as you said, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia referred to the position as a specific position of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro. The Committee also adopted these conclusions unanimously at its session, with the participation of all MPs regardless of party membership. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also given its opinion with a small change, so with one amendment, we absolutely accept it, I will refer to it later. Now let me briefly explain the conclusions. So the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia discussed the position of the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European countries, with a special reference to the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro, at a thematic session held on 5 April 2011. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia referred to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the relevant conclusion, which I will read later. Croatian Parliament President Luka Bebic, Foreign and European Integration Minister Gordan Jandrokovic, adviser to the President of the Republic for Southeast Europe Mrs Romana Vlahutin, representatives of other state institutions, and representatives of Croatians from the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro participated in the session. The session held a unanimous view that care for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia is a Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European countries, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatian emigration from national interest, in line with this and on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10, which guarantees the special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia and international rights and bilateral agreements, as well as the need for permanent involvement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other institutions in the protection, preservation and promotion of cultural, economic, political and in-house ties of the Republic of Croatia with parts of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Parliament Speaker Luka Bebic participated in most of the session and listened to representatives of Croatians from the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro. In his address, he stressed the responsibility of Croatian institutions to Croatians worldwide and the importance of adopting a full policy of the Republic of Croatia, which, according to the proposal of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, will be shown in the strategy, i.e. In a law that we all know has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. we passed that law last week. He stressed that the position of the national minority and minority generally measured the democraticity of society and state and, according to this, in all bilateral meetings, would be the rights of the Croatian national minority. I point out the standards of protection of minority rights, which the Republic of Croatia has provided for its national minorities, and the right of the Republic of Croatia to reciprocity when it comes to protecting the Croatian national minority in neighbouring countries. Mr. Foreign Minister and European Integration Gordan Jandrokovic said the Republic of Croatia will achieve a very high degree of protection of minority rights to its own national minorities, and on the basis of bilateral agreements and international rights, seek the same standards of protection of the Croatian minority in certain countries. He met the participants in the session that in the final phase it was therefore the adoption of the law I was talking about. He stressed that a consensus has been reached on this important issue in Croatia, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do everything to protect the Croatian national minority in neighbouring countries. It was heard at the session that the position of the Croatian minority in different countries is different, and that it depends primarily on the policy of the dominant state, so the position of the Croatian national minority in some countries can be assessed as acceptable, e.g. in Hungary, Romania, and in some, it is not even recognised, for example. in Slovenia, or it is systematically assimilated e.g. in Serbia. The position and need of the Croatian minority in each of the countries in which he lives requires the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia to act differently within their jurisdiction. It is therefore necessary and in accordance with the announced strategy and the Law on Croats outside Croatia to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. In the first sense, it refers to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, the Law on Foreigners, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign diplomas, bilateral agreements with individual countries, etc. Even the reconstruction of existing institutions is necessary, with the aim of establishing an effective and efficient service responsible for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. These include the Croatian Emigrants Queen and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and other institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Respecting the special position and needs of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Croatian minority from the mentioned countries were invited to attend the meeting in Vojvodina, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro, in order to get better acquainted with the current situation of each of them. Representatives of Croats from the Republic of Serbia, from Vojvodina, pointed to the difficult position of the Croatian community in the Republic of Serbia and the persecution of 35 thousand Vojvodina Croats at the time of the aggressive Serbian politics, estimated an irreparable loss for which the Republic of Serbia, as well as for other crimes from that time, murder, destruction of Croatian property, did not take responsibility or secure acceptable compensation. In the past few years, how much acceptable normalisation of relations still feels the non-acceptance of Croats as their own citizens by the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. For example, the Republic of Serbia does not respect the bilateral agreement on the protection of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia and the protection of the Serb national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the declared rights and obligations under the agreement on the one hand are not implemented by the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia systematically encourage the division of the Croatian National Corps with the aim of assimilation. It states that there is no respect for proportionate representation in state public services, in state administration, in police, customs, schools, nor is representation provided by representative authorities. According to the Electoral Law, it is extremely difficult to run for minority representatives on the so-called. minority lists that will result in the inability to cross the electoral threshold and participation in power. Therefore, they are asking for the application of a model that is available to the Republic of Croatia. In order to enable them to be directly represented, as is the point of Article 9. Agreement. Neither the other minority rights of Croats in the Republic of Serbia are respected. And this does not achieve financial obligations against the institutions of the Croatian national minority, which is estimated to be completely unacceptable especially if all of this is compared with the achieved standards for the protection of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia. Representatives of Croatians from the Republic of Slovenia have met the Committee with an effort to establish the status of recognised national minorities. Namely, although more than 50,000 Croats live in the Republic of Slovenia according to their assessment, whose indigenousness or parts of them are unquestionable Croats in the Republic of Slovenia have neither been recognised as a national minority nor are they exercising any rights that would result from that status. The proposal to recognise Croatia both as a national minority in the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians in the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Croatia in 2001, however, did not produce any results from the Slovenian side. Therefore, in March this year, they submitted a new request to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. "Insurgency." The same document was handed over to the president of the Croatian Parliament. The session provided support to Croatians in Slovenia to achieve the status of recognised national minorities and all those rights stemming from that status. All of this has been assessed as a prerequisite for the preservation of the national identity of Croats in the Republic of Slovenia and the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the obligation of the Republic of Croatia. Representatives of Croats from Montenegro pointed to the long-standing assimilation of the Croats of Montenegro, which was particularly devastating during the communist system and in the years of aggression against the Republic of Montenegro. During this period they were persecuted, and material and cultural goods were taken away from them. It is estimated that around 13,000 Croats are now living in Montenegro, and that fear does not make everyone appear national. According to the latest official census in Montenegro, only seven thousand were declared. In Montenegro, as in Vojvodina, Croats are rarely declared as Catholics undetermined or registered, a regional pardon is placed in mokels. Contrary to all the difficulties, they estimate that the political situation in Montenegro has been significantly different lately. It's more favourable. The reason is also the democratisation of Montenegro's society as well as the significant contribution of Montenegro's Croats to these processes, but also to Montenegro's independence. They stressed the Croatians' contribution to Montenegro's overall cultural heritage and pointed to disproportionate numbers, political influence and percentage of cultural heritage. It is estimated that about 70% of Montenegro's cultural heritage is just Croats. Politically organized around a political party – Croatian citizens' initiatives, the Constitution aims to guarantee permanent parliamentary representation. Listening to representatives of Croats in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro, and taking into account the agreement of all those present to ask for insurance for the Croatian minority in neighbouring countries of all rights that have national minorities in the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia, the conclusion of its session is forwarded to the Croatian Assembly for adoption with the aim of giving the Government of the Republic of Croatia's commitment and support to the exercise of declared rights in this case of the Croatian national minority in European countries based on international law, bilateral agreements and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read now the proposal for our conclusions. The first conclusion: "The Croatian Parliament gives full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the protection of minority communities, especially in the protection of the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European states based on constitutional powers, international standards in the protection of national minorities and bilateral agreements in the protection of minorities in the preservation of their national identity and the achievement of all minority rights within the framework of further development and good neighbourly relations. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to continue, in the spirit of the Agreement on the Protection of Rights of the Republic of Croatia, in the spirit of the Agreement on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro and of the Serb and Montenegrin minorities in the Republic of Croatia, to protect the full integrity of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, in particular the indigenous Croats of the Bunjevaci, the Bunjeva Croats in Vojvodina, including the preservation of their Croatian national identity, their names, languages and dialects, culture and the achievement of all minority rights." At the conclusion of the 3rd, we accept the amendment of the Government concerning only one word – "It is therefore necessary that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in bilateral relations with the competent institutions of the Republic of Slovenia, continues to encourage the question of recognition of status," wrote before the recognised national minorities, which is indeed a mistake because the Croats there are not recognised and it was the government's objection and we certainly accept it. So the word "recognized" is deleted. So "it raises the question of recognition of the status of the national minority to Croats in the Republic of Slovenia and the achievement of all the rights arising from that status in the Republic of Slovenia". The fourth conclusion – "It is up to the government of the Republic of Croatia to raise the issue of the parliamentary representation of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro in bilateral relations with the relevant institutions of Montenegro, respecting the speciality of the Croats of Montenegro, their cultural heritage and their contribution to the development of Montenegro's society and state. And finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge, which is the fifth conclusion that on the basis of the strategy and the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia, the Croatian Parliament is also directed to the adoption of the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So the government is that it was faster than our conclusions, and we are grateful to it because it sent a bill on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia that we adopted here. So, I thank the government, thank you, Mr. Vice President to you, dear colleagues and colleagues, please support these proposals of conclusions that will be on behalf of the Croatian national minorities in neighbouring countries, primarily aimed at the position of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, BiH, and the Republic of Slovenia. I also use the opportunity once again because we have just finished the previous point of giving, I have no doubt, support for the Croatian People's Support Declaration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Constitutional Change process. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80844	Thank you very much. This means that the conclusion under regular number 5 was withdrawn because it was consumed and the conclusion under the regular number 3 of the correction. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the agenda is a proposal for conclusions on the position of the Croatian people in neighbouring countries, in countries where it has national minority status. The proposer of these conclusions is the Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and I would like to say at first that I will support the adoption of these conclusions. Croatians are indigenous people in Vojvodina, in Boka Kotorska and today in these countries have the status of national minorities. We all boast that national minorities are generally speaking bridges that bring together the country in which the national minority lives with the country of origin. And that's how it is. Every year in this high house we have a report on the implementation of the Law on National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and it is one decent book that shows what the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia is doing for its national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that all of us would be overjoyed that some other parliaments can also submit to such reports on the state of national minorities in their countries, in particular in this case I think of representatives of the Croatian people who have national minority status there. Unfortunately, it's not all over the place like that. Croatians in Slovenia do not have national minority status. One of our conclusions towards the Government is what and how the Government should do to get the status of national minorities in Slovenia, representatives of the people. In Vojvodina, Serbia, Mr. Bagaric was talking about assimilation, he talked about the divisions of the rebels and the shocks, and there are 100ths and more thousands of Croats there, and now there have been some problems and there have been some incidents, there have been campaigns, people have been invited to plead freely, Croats, but the fact is that this is not exactly how everyone would have wanted it and how it was arranged in the normal European world. Hopefully, the Law that we passed a week ago, the law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia will also contribute to at least a small improvement in the state of affairs when it comes to representatives of the Croatian people in Vojvodina. As far as Montenegro is concerned, Mr Bagaric mentioned in his statement that 13-15 thousand Croats live there, that only 6.7,000 were declared to the Croats and that we are asking the government of Montenegro or their parliament to allow normal representation of the Croatian people in the Montenegrin Parliament. It should be said that in Montenegro in the Constitution, the official language, one of the official languages is the Croatian language and that those with new amendments to the legislation, have made it possible for a representative of the Croatian people to enter the Montenegrin Parliament. In this field, things seem to be fixing a little bit because, as the introduction said in his presentation, there was a democratisation within Montenegro itself. In conclusion, I think that if the Law was one of the conclusions of our Committee where we concluded that the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be passed, that this law, which we adopted before these conclusions, would be a very important link between the Croatian people in the world, mainly in these countries where there were speeches and the Croatian state in these conclusions. I will support making these conclusions, and I would have so much to say about this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80846	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Vukic that national minorities are the wealth of every country, as well as the Republic of Croatia, but I often wonder why it is not in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I often visit the Vojvodina Croats and I see that they are on the sidelines, that they are citizens of the second order, also in BiH, and that is why I support this part of these people are the first to come from Bosnia and Herzegovina when we created Croatia to come together with us to help us and it is our job to make these people remand ourselves in some way, and we are asking that also here as it is in the Republic of Croatia, that Serbia also acts in the same way towards the national minority of Croats in their countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80848	The Croats are not a national minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're a constitutive people. Reply to the replica Mr Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80849	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mlinaric, I think you've made a small lapus when it comes to Croats in BiH. There is only one Croatian people and members of that people living in both BiH and the Republic of Croatia and in Vojvodina and Boka Kotorska and not to list further around the world, in different statuses. The Croatian people in BiH are a sovereign, constitutive people as well as two other peoples. In Vojvodina, Croats have the status of national minorities and of course we are all concerned that the position of the Croatian people in Vojvodina is not what we would like to have. I'm going back to that book report on the state of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. We get it every year and that's good. Hopefully the day will come in other parliaments, that is, Montenegro, that is, Slovenia, is that Serbia will be the same book that will show that the rights of Croatian peoples are not being violated, but that the state protects that national minority in its countries and then we will be able to say that they are national minorities and that they are connecting and what bridges they are. Until then, we can't say that because there's one leg missing from the bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80850	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80851	We move on to the proposal for a conclusion on the position of the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European countries with special reference to the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro, the proposal of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the government's proposal on the third draft conclusions and became an integral part of the proposal and was not voted on. I therefore give the vote on the proposal for a conclusion on the position of the Croatian national minority in neighbouring and other European countries with special reference to the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia and Montenegro. Let's please get involved and vote as many MPs and MPs as possible. And this proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-27-0.u80855	- Proposal for a law on changes and water supplements, first reading, P.Z. No. 812. Proposer Daniel Srb. The Proposer has no intention of explaining the bill. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
