ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79179	Good morning, everybody. We're starting today's session. According to an announcement last night at the end of point 9 - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 884 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. The reasons for the new amendment and addition of the Law on the Application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law stems from the need to comply with the criteria set out in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights, as well as compliance with existing laws of the Republic of Croatia. The amended law of May 2011 resolved the question of jurisdiction of the courts for the proceedings in which the proceedings were initiated after the entry into force of these amendments, but the issue of jurisdiction was not resolved in the event that, in the event of the appeal, the Supreme Court abolished the first-degree ruling for the wrong or incompletely established factual situation or other reason, which may or may have affected the correctness of the decision taken. It is therefore necessary to amend the law in order to comply with the technical consultations carried out with the European Commission on Chapter 23 when it is recommended that these cases be conducted exclusively before four specialised courts, county courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb so that the retrial could be conducted before one of these four courts. In addition, since it has not been resolved which of the four specialised county courts is responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings, the first amendment of the law is related to Article 12. For this reason, it was necessary by law to establish the local jurisdiction of those four courts. The second amendment, i.e. the introduction of this article, also provides for the applicability of the provisions on the use of evidence in the event of infringements of prosecution and evidence by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. This supplement is also in agreement with Article 28. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international and humanitarian law, i.e. provisions on the use of evidence by the International Criminal Court. The amendment of the law was also carried out by introducing a provision relating to the completion of the proceedings pending before courts which are competent under general provisions as an exception under which the chief state attorney, if he considers it necessary to complete the proceedings, will propose to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to grant approval for the transfer of the case to one of the four specialised courts and, where appropriate, to the circumstances of the criminal offence or the needs of the conduct of the proceedings. This authority may be used by the attorney-general whenever objectivity arises at least, or where it considers it necessary to move the case from a court in charge of regular provisions. Furthermore, since the situation appears in practice that the judgment is lifted because of formal failures, and the fact that the situation has been correctly established and there is no objection to the decision taken, in such a case it is permitted for the President of the County Court or the Chief State Attorney to submit a proposal to the Supreme Court that a court which has also ruled on the judgment itself for the reasons that the court knows the case and the decision itself is not questionable. The new amendment also relates to the erasure of Article 6. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statutes for the purposes of the inclusion of the provisions of that Article in Article 28.2 which is a nomotechnical and substantively much better solution. It is equally necessary to delete Article 7 of the Law amending and supplementing the law because the provisions of that article are an integral part of the Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force from 1 September 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79181	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the final proposal or the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law. About the very content of the law, this law that is before us, about the amendment and the supplement is really exhaustive and all said by Mrs. Secretary of State, so it wouldn't make any sense to repeat. Perhaps we should just remind ourselves of what this fundamental law is even talking about, as concerns the basic Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law. Therefore, the law regulates the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, which has ratified the Republic of Croatia by the Law confirming the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court and the specific nature of the prosecution of criminal offences provided for in Article 5. Statutes, criminal offences against the values protected by international law under the articles of the Criminal Code and other criminal offences in the jurisdiction of international criminal courts, as well as persecution for criminal offences against international justice. This law was passed in 2003, is in force and has been followed by the Republic of Croatia. The change was experienced by one before this last May, so just as one of the criteria, to meet as one of the criteria of meeting the closing criteria for Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights right in the war crimes trial. Perhaps even on the trail of yesterday's debate to say that this law too found excludes the jurisdiction of the courts of the Republic of Croatia for the trial in these cases. So, due to further shifts in professionalism, impartiality, objectivity and efficiency of the trial in these cases, changes were made in May this year. We then established that although the basic law provided for the jurisdiction of the general local and really competent courts so that the cases could be transferred to these four county courts – Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split. The amendments referred to in Article 1(1) of the Law have been found to be the sole jurisdiction of those four county courts for trial in the cases referred to in Article 1 of this Law. With these amendments and additions to the law, as we have heard, we are editing what may not have been consistently arranged by May's amendments. Therefore, in addition to the determination of the county courts, only 4 county courts were required to establish their local jurisdiction, so that areas which county courts will not be tried in these cases are extended to their jurisdiction. This was done here in Article 1(2) of the second paragraph. The transitional provisions of the May amendments also established that, as a general rule, the procedures would be completed before the courts before which they were before. As the procedure is completed, the procedure is not completed until its power. Then they would be abolished when the verdicts were abolished and returned to retrial after these amendments to the court where they were initiated. For the sake of professionalism, because these four courts are the most capable, the most staffed if the verdict is abolished because of an incomplete or incorrect factual situation, the court will be in charge of retrial as one of these four courts. So it's like a general rule. Exceptionally, if this requires economicity and the speed of the proceedings, it may be determined that the proceedings will be completed by the court who initiated it. And I would say another quite nomotechnical change, which is in the part where we have brought an amendment in May on the use of evidence of the International Criminal Court and their use in the trial before the domestic judiciary, so we are one provision that is now being filed in Article 28a. which was incorporated into the basic body of the basic law and adopted the amendments of May as a provision of the Law on Amendments. Because of the importance of this provision, because of its material character, it is better and better to type it properly as it is according to the current changes and proposed. Because of all this because this is another amendment to the law that makes it similar to the ultimate goal that is to be achieved in the Republic of Croatia and to confirm the Republic of Croatia as the country that has the most legal standards of criminal law, including in this chapter, that is, in the part of the war crimes trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79183	Thank you. It is next to the HNS Club, HSU Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79184	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law. However, we believe that the motionor was obliged at the beginning to explain this Law first and foremost apologize to the Croatian Parliament. The amendments and additions to this Act were adopted in May of this year. So, five months ago and then it was missed to do something which is a key and fundamental reason for new changes and additions precisely because it is obvious that the government ignored the code that regulated the involvement of the interested public in the adoption of new regulations or amendments to existing ones. Because if the amendments and the addition of the law were made in May then, i.e. in April when the interested public was made, and here, above all, in the particular case of thought and representatives of the judicial authority, it would be clear that a failure was made because they were already in the course of proceedings that later or at that time the Supreme Court had abolished judgments regardless of the scale or procedural issues. So it was quite clear, and at that time, that it had not been carried out by the end of the procedure defined in the legislative proposal in order to prevent the situations that we have today and which led to new changes and additions of less than 5 months after... The law on criminal proceedings entered into force on 1 September and in that part where the applicant calls for one of the amendments, of course, is right because it was not possible to know what would actually be discussed in July, or what would eventually be adopted in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's one of the most important of all these changes. The definition of the actual jurisdiction of four specialised courts in cases where the Supreme Court abolished earlier judgments by those courts had to be clear and must be known to the proposings. We are surprised because the Ministry of Justice has shown in the last two years a higher level of commitment, concentration and expertise in the preparation of the draft legislation, which this Croatian Parliament has also approved in a way that everything that the Ministry of Justice has coordinated in the amendments and additions to existing legal texts, i.e. the adoption of new ones, and all in connection with the application of the criteria set out in our negotiation process. And we accepted that as a judicial reform in principle consensually. It is obvious that the team working at the Ministry of Justice forgets one very important thing, which is the code adopted by the Government and where it has always been shown, whenever it has skipped good practice, defined by this Code, it has happened that it must come before the Croatian Parliament with new amendments, and sometimes it has been quite clear that it was only necessary to consult relevant, or professional people in the European Commission, in order not to have a failure that was actually in some way embarrassing or should have shamed the applicant. In any case, the HNS and HSU club will accept this amendment, but warns that this practice is not serious and that it goes below what the Ministry of Justice has achieved in the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79185	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79186	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the amendments, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the statutes of a permanent international court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, which is quite and natural, as this law was passed during the coalition government in 2003. When it comes to amendments and additions to this law should be noted, and we must all be proud that Croatia was among the first countries signatories of the statutes, and that was our obligation to adopt this law after the signing of the statutes of a permanent international criminal court to adapt our own domestic legislation, so to meet all those conditions of conduct before a permanent international criminal court. At that time, unfortunately still today the need for such a law was also such as to be transferred from ad hoc courts, such as the court in The Hague, processes and that these people who are Croatian citizens are tried in front of domestic justice, before our courts. Without this law, so even in 2003, it was not possible to do so until 2003. I remind you that that and because of that, first and foremost, we unanimously passed this law. I can say that all lawyers who have been dealing with criminal law since ancient times dreamed of an institution of a permanent international criminal court, aware that all countries when they are at war, even when it comes to countries that are attackers, let alone countries that have defended themselves in such wars are reluctant to face the other side of the war. So it was necessary to establish, and it is one big victory of the international community, to create a permanent court that will not be politically motivated and that will not be determined only for some countries. Unfortunately, the fillings and in some way action, over the operation of this permanent international criminal court continues to hover, because the strongest country, some of the world's strongest countries, do not want to approach the statute of a permanent international criminal court, citing a simple explanation that is absolutely unacceptable to the international community, that they do not want their soldiers to be tried outside their country. It is, of course, necessary to believe in the change of certain policies and in the maturing of this, that the refusal and rejection of any political notions of sanctioning all that is committed in the war is precisely this continuing international criminal court. After all, he has so much and preventive action, because he warns that all those who commit a crime in war, not only is he not obsessing, but that they can very easily be prosecuted right in front of this court. So let us go back, and what is particularly interesting to us, which is those provisions in this law that concern the processing of these acts protected by international law, therefore acts against international war and humanitarian law against domestic justice. The most important components of this law are precisely that the judicial authority is given power not known in the Penal Code, but is just the result of this law, which is what the colleague mentioned earlier, so the authority of both the President and the Supreme Court, and the attorney general, that, in addition to this local jurisdiction, four large criminal courts in Osijek, Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, have the opportunity to agree to the will when it assesses precisely because of the severity of a particular procedure, because of the opportunities or difficulties that exist in a particular area that causes a particular trial, to just plant their backs, so that the judicial authority is also responsible for the adequate outcome of these proceedings. It is therefore important to note that they do not go in the regular order of assigning cases such as in ordinary litigation, civil matters, or criminal matters which, those courts that do not judge for crimes against international war and humanitarian law. So these changes that have occurred in the SDP club are considered quite logical, given the development of our criminal law, starting with where, since 2003, they date these changes, and that is why the SDP club will also support the adoption of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79187	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79188	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international, war and humanitarian law with the final proposal of the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent in the procedure of the adoption of an emergency procedure. The urgency of the procedure is justified and should be supported as the same criteria in Chapter 23 are met. - Justice and fundamental human rights. The proposed amendments and additions other than compliance with the criteria set out in Chapter 23 shall be subject to compliance of this law with existing laws of the Republic of Croatia. In May of this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the law. The amendments addressed the question of jurisdiction of courts for handling cases in which the procedure was initiated after the amendments were adopted. However, the amendments did not resolve the issue of jurisdiction in the event that, on the occasion of the complaint, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished the first-degree ruling because of the incorrect or incomplete fact-finding situation. It is proposed to conduct criminal proceedings against international, war and humanitarian law in real and local jurisdiction of county courts in Osijek, Split, Rijeka and Zagreb. I believe that this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international, war and humanitarian law is important in the process of harmonisation, so I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79189	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want an extra one? No, I don't. It's over. I am closing the debate and we will vote on this when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79190	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 884, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The result is that this law was adopted by most votes, 76 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79191	We're going to the 17th agenda because these other committees haven't done their job yet, so I'd ask the committees to do it by Wednesday. And that is - Final proposal of the Law on the Hire and Purchase of Business Space, Third Reading, P.Z. No. 672 Proposers Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to third reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatiana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the lease of business space allows for the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia micro and small operators under conditions and under the procedure laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By the same law, the earlier name of the Law on the lease of a business space was amended in the name of the Law on the rental and sale of a business space. As the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the City of Zagreb's initiative to enable the sale of business space and the ownership of units of local self-government and units of regional self-government as an initiative to sell wider circle of entities to tenants, i.e. the users of these premises, not only as so far as micro and small entities of the small economy, with appropriate conditions and appropriate procedures, as well as for business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, it was also necessary to change that law. The adoption of a new Law on the rental and sale of business space is foreseen as measure 3 under the Small Economy Business Simplification Programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 24 June 2010, in accordance with the plan for the economic activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Economic Recovery Programme. This final proposal allows current tenants, i.e. users of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities, counties and the City of Zagreb, who regularly fulfil their obligations under the lease agreement and other financial obligations to the local and regional, or regional self-government unit, and, with the additional condition of 5 years of use of that space and with the required exceptions to the purchase of these premises, subject to and under the procedure laid down in this Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, namely the decisions of units of local, regional or regional self-government. The Republic of Croatia has designated a small economy, i.e. craftsmanship as part of the fundamental background of economic development. Since craftsmen are the most common tenants of business space, this will, through the legal possibility of purchasing the business space that they use, improve their position by providing them with security through doing business in their own space. This contributes to strengthening the small economy, i.e. entrepreneurship. However, as constitutional principles of justice and equality and entrepreneurial equality require that business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities, county and the City of Zagreb be privatised in an appropriate way, this law enables the sale of a wider circle of users of these areas, not as a boredom only to small economy entities. As regards the sale of a business space owned by those public-legislative bodies, it is important to stress that this law, by means of a legal proposal, gives public-law bodies only the possibility of selling a business space owned by them and on the basis of publicly published lists of business premises which are the subject of sale. And there's no obligation to sell business spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79193	Thank you. If he wants to, you haven't made a statement about the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79194	The amendment has been submitted by the Committee on Justice, the Proposer accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79195	Thank you. So the amendment is accepted. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. The HDZ Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space. Namely, this matter leases business space, here we are talking about business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and owned by units of local self-government and units of regional self-government, has been regulated by a special law since 1996. Years. In view of the specific nature of the economic relationship in that part, it was necessary to pass such a law and regulate that matter by special law in relation to the general provisions on the lease and the Law on Mandatory Relations, and later through several amendments, and by amending 2004. The matter of the regulation of this Act has been extended to the sale of business premises owned only by the Republic of Croatia and to current or then leasers, micro or small entrepreneurs under the condition and in the procedure laid down by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this also as a alloy of specialis in relation to the general provisions of the Property Act. The government passed the regulation in 2007. Year but during that time of application of this 2004 Act I of the regulations there was an initiative and the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen systematically addressed the Government with a proposal to amend the Law in such a way as to extend the possibility of selling business premises and owned units of local self-government and regional self-government units in view of the strict provision of the Law of Ownership which stipulates that properties owned by a unit of local self-government and regional government can be sold exclusively through a public tender unless otherwise provided by law. The legislation at the time was such that business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, small entrepreneurs could then buy under the conditions laid down by the regulation by the Government, but could not buy such premises if they were owned by the City of Zagreb, another city, municipality or county which was a rarer case. Therefore, the Government proposed the adoption of a new Act, which also accepted highlighted remarks during the application of the Law, which allowed existing tenants to buy out premises under certain conditions but exclusively micro-entities of the small economy, which raised questions about entrepreneurship, i.e. those micro- and small-scale entrepreneurs were, in that case, in a certain better starting position on the market. By accepting the long-standing initiatives of the crafts chamber and of the objections to the inequality of the initial positions on the market, the government has decided to propose this new law systematically, I commend it, if the applicant had not gone to change and supplement since it would have been 5. Change and supplement, I commend that it went with the new bill. We had this Law in two readings, and I am pleased to see from the reasons that almost all or all of the amendments that we have highlighted are accepted, both individually and in the Committee, and not in order to change the criteria of the Law and the purpose of the law, but only in improving the legal text so that it can truly fulfil the law's intensity. In relation to other readings other than all accepted text improvements, one important change may be that the legal text is restored to the possibility of re-paying the current users and the tenants. So, it was in the first draft of the law, on some observations until the second reading it came out of the law, but again at the debates held in the Croatian Assembly at the plenary session, but also on the comments made in the Committees, the possibility of a round-off payment was regained when buying the business premises of current tenants and users. In the name of the promoter, the State Secretary has very comprehensively explained what this Law applies and I would say that it regulates and, above all, defines the term of the current tenant, and that is any person who has a contract on the date of entry into force of this Act on the lease which carries out the permitted activity in that space and if it uses it for at least five years, and this possibility or right has been extended because of certain specific relationships or situations where someone actually uses a business space but because of various objective circumstances does not have a contract but uses it, if it carries out the permitted activity in that space, if it is in all its service throughout the period of use, subsistes all the obligations as if it is in the lease and if it is in that space for at least 5 years, then it acquires the status of the tenant, i.e.e. the user who then has the right to buy that space he uses. Therefore, I must say that the business space owned by the Republic of Croatia and the unit of local and regional self-government is leased exclusively for competitions other than exceptions to current tenants who regularly comply with all their obligations under the lease agreement offering a new contract for the next 5 years if the conditions for the conclusion of a new contract of acceptance can continue to benefit. In the event of a tender due to financial discipline, it is not possible to access the tender of the person who has a debt to the budgets of either State to the local, regional self-government unit, and I must say that in this lease tender, the defenders have the right to make the lease if they accept the highest amount offered of the lease reached in the competition. One newspaper I see in relation to the former law, and it seems good to me to be recognized, and perhaps many will not even notice it, which is that during the duration of repairs to maintain a business space in which the tenant is obliged to maintain it, which falls on the payload of the tenant as well as on public surfaces, front and roof of the building for which the tenant could not use the business space, the tenant is not obliged to pay the rent because in practice there were a number of cases where the works were not carried out on a specific business space but the works were performed on the road, there was no access to the business space, and there were always disputes between the tenant and the tenant about whether it should be released during that time of the lease. This law makes it clear that he was released from the lease, but he did not, which is also often sought by the tenants, but it does not give him the right to have the right to compensation for the loss of profits. I think it's a good thing the law defines that there are no disputed cases in practice and often lengthy court proceedings about it. So here's what I want to repeat, which is why it is important to enable the sale of business premises owned by the state units of local and regional self-government to current employees and users, but only those who regularly fulfil all the obligations of the contract or orderlyly pay all the costs if they are users. And that is important to say, those business premises decided by the Republic of Croatia according to the list to be drawn up by the Agency for the Management of State Property, or those premises decided by the local and regional self-government units, based on the decision of its representative body. So it's not an obligation to sell, this law does not create an obligation to sell, but to sell those areas for which the city, municipality or state decides. The law also lays down deadlines when and at what time an interested person may report for the purchase of such a business space. Payment conditions have been established, the current beneficiary or the tenant has the right to compensation for the investments made made with the consent of the tenant if these investments have affected an increase in market prices but not more than 30% of the amount. Of course, that assessment will be carried out by an authorised court expert appointed by a creditor or owner in this case by the owner of a business space. And as I said in relation to the second reading, the possibility of a roundabout payment has been reintroduced. We said Croatia recognises the role of small economy, recognises the role and importance of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia. The extent of the activities of craftsmanship, how many people are employed in craftsmanship, therefore in any case and in this way wants to enable them to make business easier, allowing them to choose whether to buy a business space at once in which case they will have the right to reduce the market price of the business space for what they have invested with the consent of the tenant, or whether they will buy the business space in a circular manner in which they will not have the right to repay those funds, but will have the possibility of payment on favourable terms for no longer than 20 years and at a rate of 4%. Here is how this law is also one of the laws whose adoption is foreseen in the economic recovery measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that we think they will be resolved by many relations in a small economy where they will then enable craftsmen, small entrepreneurs to operate in their own space, to have one particular security of the future of business in that space, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79197	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79198	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU club will not be against the adoption of this bill for several reasons. First, the very procedure of passing this law is one of the few, which is that we discuss the bill in three readings. Secondly, which is almost amazing but evident and that is that in both the second and third readings, the Proposer accepted all of our comments, and we at the HNS-HSU club had very concrete remarks and we are glad that the promoter included our comments in the second and third readings. The fact is that something happened in the second reading related to Articles 33, paragraphs 1 and 2 where deadlines are simply missing, but this in the third reading was returned and it is good and certainly useful both because of consistency and because of the implementation of this bill itself. Second, direct support for the small economy and craftsmen is also very important. It is certainly or almost certain that all employees in the small economy and in particular in craftsmanship would be extremely pleased that the other laws resulting from the economic recovery measures were of this type and effect. However, we have what we have and in this segment it is good that at least something correct, quality and excellent is done and well done and, in any case, our congratulations to the promoter and to communicate and to understand the reality that such a bill that solves very important and important issues and very important and important problems that entrepreneurs face both in the small economy and above all craftsmen, to allow them to see in this segment as much as the light in that segment at the end of the tunnel as they see in all other segments is light still at the beginning of the tunnel or thick in the tunnel. It is a pity that we do not have one consistent and comprehensive list of all these premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, owned by the City of Zagreb, owned by municipalities and cities, but I believe that one day we will welcome that we have one complete record. Since we still do not even have a full record of all government employees, it is difficult to expect that we will have in that segment. And at the same time, the state pays everyone their salary, so it's simply incomprehensible that we can't get to that record, and we have a specially formed ministry and a deal to do it, but we simply don't have it for a variety of reasons. It would be good to have records of these business spaces, and I believe that we will, I do not believe, but I am sure that we will present this information to the Croatian public soon. Finally, the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill, with congratulations on the proposal and willingness to be in the Croatian Assembly, which is rare, I stress that it is rare for the Croatian Parliament to discuss the bill in the first, second and third readings, and it is almost impossible to believe that all proposals, the objections to the opposition were accepted and incorporated into the final text of the law, and on behalf of the HNSU Club, I would like to thank the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79199	Thank you. It's pre-election time. And it is up to the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic, please, on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79200	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's an angry opposition, so the HDSSB club will accept this legal proposal in the third reading, so the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space. I've highlighted here the third reading because it was the first two, it's been a long time, a lot of water has passed by Sava and the Danube, but at least I'm glad that those remarks, proposals, well-intentioned suggestions and all that's been discussed in the first two readings are quite seriously studied by the ministry and accepted and included in this legislative proposal, so we're also satisfied and we'll accept, we'll vote for this legislative proposal. However, it is also true that the government, whether the Government or the Agency for State Property Management, popularly called AUDI, in communication to shorten that long name, the Agency for State Property Management, does not have a list or catalogue of business premises which would then be clearly available to those who want to buy or want to rent such a business space. If the Government, or the State Property Management Agency, has not taken such a step as to have a list or catalogue, however you will, what it manages, which is only expected from units of local and regional or regional or county self-government. I know for a fact that most of them don't have such a list. Clearly, in the general provisions of this law, to discuss the legal provisions themselves, it is good that there is still a provision on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, therefore in the case of changes, etc. That this particular segment must be respected, especially in those environments that have historical cores, historical and cultural values. Furthermore, I hope that it will not happen, so the adoption of this law will not happen now because the provisions are really clear and loud and should not be, although there are always those who will find what they say is a hole in the law, that space is being rented for 99 years, although it is to assume that the person who rented the business space for 99 years will not live, like Hong Kong, who was delivered to the English for 99 years after the war between China and the United Kingdom. So here's the thing about us, I can say in the 5th constituency that some people get a lease, and clearly politically similar to a 99-year-old business space that he's actually provided grandchildren and great-grandsons because it's not to expect a person who makes a contract to live, where happiness is, but that's going to live 99 years, it's hard to expect. In other articles of this law, therefore, since everything that has been said in good faith and intent has been included so that finally our little and medium-sized craftsmanship and economy can be initiated, let us hope that this law will contribute to this as one of the measures of economic recovery. And I think it's a good thing that you've determined and what exists in this law that a representative body decides in the units of local self-government and regional self-government on the lease and purchase of a business space. So, the representative body, the municipal council, the city council and the county council, which is again I would say far better and much less likely that there could be abuse in the sense that you are such a decision, that such a decision is made at the level or at the level of the executive authority. So, the mayor, the mayor or the mayor and his assistants. In any case, for these reasons, here's the HDSSB club to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79201	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79202	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the final proposal for a law on the lease and purchase of business space in the third reading in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 15 July 2011 because the proposer assessed that amendments are such as to significantly change the content of the law in question. The law on the lease and sale of business premises regulates an important area of legal status and the availability of business space. The proposal regulates the establishment of leases, rights and obligations of contract parties, termination of leases, sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, County, City of Zagreb, towns, municipalities. It enables current tenants, i.e. users of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb, cities and municipalities, who make arrangements under the lease agreement and other financial obligations to units of local and regional self-government, subject to the five-year use of the purchase of these premises. The conditions for the purchase of these premises are subject to this Act, and are also governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation and by the provisions of the local community. In relation to the text of the proposal for a law in the second reading, the text of the final draft law in the third reading contains the differences that arise from the adoption of amendments in the second reading, as well as the additional proposals of the applicant himself. The differences are in the following. An employee who performs works without prior notice of the tenant shall not be entitled to compensation for the works carried out except in the case of emergency repairs. The urgency of court proceedings to resolve disputes between the tenant and the tenant shall be settled. Article 36 detailedly regulates the payment of the business space price at one time or by means of a flat-rate payment. It is arranged that revenue from management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia is the revenue of the state budget. The law of the Agency for the Management of State Assets shall be laid down for the management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. In view of the above, and given the fact that the Republic of Croatia has arranged a small economy and craftsmanship as a basis for its economic development, craftsmen as the most common tenants of the business area have the possibility of buying the business space used to contribute to the safety and strengthening of the small economy and entrepreneurship. I will therefore personally support the adoption of a final draft law on the lease and sale of business space, as well as the amendment of the Justice Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79203	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to say at first is that this law absolutely needs to be supported and in my opinion he blames, or four basic features that should be highlighted in any case and at this time. So, the first feature is that the law is in the third reading which is good in terms of the procedure and the acceptance of all the good legal solutions that were in both the first and second readings and are now embedded in this bill. On the other hand or other characteristics this is indeed a special law or lex specialis. It resolves or regulates certain ownership-legal relations which we can therefore locate between the Law on Property and other real rights on the one hand and the Law on Mandatory Relations on the other. So, the law, I would dare say the general laws that regulated this matter but not precisely and not as high-quality as this Law does. The third thing is to really regulate ownership relations in a very sensitive area. So, the area of actually encouraging the economic activity of small businessmen, and this very law, in my opinion, should be looked at in this light. There is no economic activity in this sector unless there are resolved ownership relations. It is difficult to expect that someone, therefore, will develop their own economic activity or activity that he has previously failed to resolve and that clearly, accurate and secure ownership relations regardless of the acquisition of ownership rights or the conclusion of the Contract on the lease of a business space. And that's where I see the basic quality of this law. Therefore, that ownership relations will be defined on the one hand between persons, legal persons of public law. So, mostly local self-government units. They talked about counties, municipalities and cities on one side. On the other hand, users or tenants, the tenants of those business premises in which small craftsmen carry out their economic activity in the most part of the craftsmen. Therefore, when this Law enters into force, all those conditions will be met, the legal preconditions that the units of local self-government are able to conclude, in particular, certain legal conditions, either a contract for the purchase of a business space or a contract for the lease of a business space. And those engaged in economic activity, the economic activity will be in a position to definitely resolve ownership relations either on the principle of purchase or by concluding a long-term lease agreement and thus be in a position to continue their economic activity. And I think that just incentivise, that incentive to continue economic activity, we all need to support it and not repeat this law for sure in that light. Of course, when discussing or talking about this valuable legislative proposal that has a whole series of institutes that are very sensitive on this property side, there are perhaps some others I would dare to say details or things that can or should be discussed and fully defined. One of these things is the possibility of payment of the purchase price on a cost-sale basis when the matter or object is dealt with specifically in a way that goes into the purchase or purchase of a business space. We've got two thoughts in that direction, one not to allow merciless payment, and one to allow merciless payment. In this third reading, however, the solution was made that this possibility is allowed, therefore, to allow users of the business space in the conclusion of the purchase contract, the purchase contract, to go in terms of the development of the R & D institutes at the estimated value. Whether, in all situations, all of them, whether in all situations to enable all economic operators to have this possibility of having a flat-rate payment or not, it may be necessary to leave a legal space to assess, from a specific situation to a specific situation, whether to buy right away, to pay the total purchase price, or whether to pay both for economic activities and for the economic status of a particular tenant or business space user, whether or not to make it possible to pay the total purchase price. What does it matter in own sense? This is important because the conclusion of a business space purchase contract of course that the basis of the tabular document and the contract itself must precisely define the moment of acquisition of the right of ownership on the one hand, and on the other hand, the one selling under certain conditions will certainly be interested in placing the burden on the freight sheet if the purchase price is not paid immediately when the purchase contract is concluded, during its verification and in terms of the realisation of the tabular document, so the recording of ownership rights at the time of the conclusion of the contract, i.e. the signing of the contract of commitments made. And finally, I absolutely support this bill, it's a good law, it's a legitimate specialis, it really covers an uncovered space between the Law of Property and, on the one hand, real rights of the Law on Mandatory Relations on the other, it will enable the definition of ownership relations in one of the very sensitive and in these times of the really burdened branch of the economy, I think that small entrepreneurs are really obliged to help, relieve them of these concerns about future economic activity, and surely this law is a further incentive for growth and development of the small and medium economy and incentives, and in that sense I absolutely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79205	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Tomljenović in your discussion about how this will boost economic activity and we will help small craftsmen carry out their activities. I think we'll help them more in the security area than in the economic activity itself. These amendments to the law, i.e. through the third reading, allow for full security of long-term activity, which has not been done so far. And that's one big shift. But the other part of what you were saying about the approaches of the different purchases, of course there could always be a sale with a payment deadline right away, or with a meal payment, and there's one legal possibility, and the other is economic profitability. If sold in a ring then the customer is the owner immediately after the payment is complete, if the market price is established, I am even to say that if someone pays immediately to have a payment point immediately, if he pays on a cost-free basis, but then to protect ourselves at an interest rate, and I think it could have been a little more careful to approach it when protected with a 4 percentage interest rate fixed, because 20 years is too long for someone to predict that after 18 or 19 years 4 percentage interest rate would be a generally acceptable rate. I think there could still be solutions to protect the better, and as far as ownership is concerned, I think it would be a better solution if no one owned until they paid the whole price, because we have very negative experience of selling shares in the '90s where they became tycoons owners without paying off shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79207	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79208	So, these negative experiences we could maybe use a little bit more useful in this part of the law, but the law is actually a big step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79209	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79210	Thank you for the replica, dear colleague, but you have not convinced me that encouraging economic activity in the first place means defining ownership relations, especially when we talk about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. They may state a thousand and one example when the tenant or the one who concludes the lease of a business space, regardless of what activity we are talking about, if he is insecure in terms of how long his lease contract will take, if he has to invest, and he is aware that he can never or may not come to the property of that business space, if you allow him to buy that business space there is no economic activity there for you. And by respecting your economic knowledge, there is no economic real activity in other segments of the economy where it is not solved, where no ownership relations have been solved. Where ownership relationships are some kind of suspiciously resolved, where there's no security, there's no real economic activity, there's just some kind of speculation, suspicious investment, or I don't know what. As far as this second part of your replica was concerned about how to make a concrete deal on the purchase of a business space, the resolution of the Law on Mandatory Relations, you know them just as well as I do, allowing the purchase price in certain situations not to be paid at once, it can also be paid in round payments. There's a more important thing about the moment of acquisition of property rights and the possibility of enrolling in land books. I agree with you that these deadlines should not be 20, 30, 50 years, because it is difficult then in economic terms to calculate the true value of the price in relation to the meter-squared business space, but this can be resolved by a concrete contract on the lease of a business space, I suggested in my debate if there is no explicit or strict legal solution that units of local self-government which are thus able to adapt from situation to situation and enter into a buy-out contract, but always in terms of fostering economic activity. So, to continue this activity, that these people are doing their job that they can and can live and live both them and their families and pay taxes and contribute to everyone who needs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79211	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Zeljko Turk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's from the debate so far, and about this problem, so it's clear that there's a dare to say almost a consensus when it comes to the need to pass this law and its good nature. It's clear that there are certain differences, but in any case, I think we're really on a good track here. Maybe I'd get right on the line before I generally say something more about the law, and I'll support it, and that's exactly the question of how the debate was, and then the replicas, and it's about the purchase price, or at the moment when the contract was concluded, certain ring payments, and therefore the financial conditions that are less or less favourable, which they mean. Personally, when we talk about this subject, I'm in favour of the possibility of a meal payment. It enables, indeed, a longer period of time not to be burdened with direct liquid craftsmen, i.e. the buyer of the business space for the whole price, but it is really a question of when we talk about the firmness of the contract and when we talk about how and how this space can be available. Like... I would say that it is up to whoever sells that space to assess and assess which types of guarantees and conditions he puts into the elements of the contract in order to protect himself in particular by having thought certain negative that therefore the future owner of that space if in some other way it is not mortgaged or otherwise secured space can either sell that space before he has paid it off or given it as a stock in some other business activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, specifically when it comes to my city, we will, if it's a routing payment, put in a clause that will say that we will book a mortgage on that space for so long until the last war is paid, and thus there will be no speculation about how or the use of space or its alienation or other legal actions that are not in accordance with the law. When it comes to interest rates as such, which is fixed, I would consider it in Croatian terms as an interest which is appropriate as an incentive, so as such, I support it, so regardless of what the time limit as such can be longer, but it is a total incentive in this sense that we really allow the buyers of space to be encouraged to activity. We are witnessing in a large part of our cities, the municipalities that it is almost so every day business space is increasingly out of function, which are not owned, but are also not in function because the entrepreneurial activity is not in any case in the affirmative sense, therefore problems and crisis. And that's why I'm here to encourage at any moment as much activity as possible and then at that interest rate as possible. I also support one finding, i.e. Article 4 is in a law that says that it would either be leased or bought, which is less important if paying cash and cash is that a tenant cannot be a legal natural person who in any way is liable to local self-government or is a state in respect of any other giving because in this way we are talking about an unfair relationship. This is a topic that we can discuss even a little bit more in particular when it comes to cities and municipalities that give different kinds of incentives, subsidies, student cards and so on, and on the other hand, ask them to be those natural legal entities at the same time and do not owe them on various grounds, from communal fees, contributions further. What is known in some ways is often understood as blackmailing us cities and municipalities, but we consider it necessary that the system could actually function and that we put in the same way both rights and obligations. I also believe that Article 6 which states that the city, state, or unit of local self-government in mutual relations can resolve relations without a public tender because, in general, there remains a public interest as such in such situations that we in some way speed up such types and contracts that are being leased or sold, but above all, in the lease, as something that I consider to be quality and good. It is clear that it is a good decision which, therefore, the current tenant after 5 years of being in that space whether there are any MPs or advocates able to buy, has one and stability in some way when we talk about the long-term prospects for the development of work in that area, but it is clear that the price itself as such must be marketable, and the law also stipulates how it is defined as such. I also support the article of the law that speaks of Croatian defenders who therefore have the advantage of accepting that price at the highest price in the lease contract has the opportunity to be the one who enters the lease, but must then accept that price as such. It is clearly a good thing that this law says that, as a rule, unless the contract sets out in advance, there are no sublets to prevent different types of possible speculations and related to the use of space itself. Of course, all that is said here is to contribute to the adoption of this law, and I am pleased that in some way the rights of the tenant are protected and the rights of the tenant when it comes to the events and situations of repairs and arrangements, whether only the necessity of space or also public areas which make it impossible for these activities to be concluded, i.e. to carry out normal activity in those business premises, so it is clearly defined. But also so that no speculative profit would be drawn from this, so with one article it is said that in fact some right to special damages, lost gains and so on cannot be realised what it is actually saying has finally been done quite concisely in preparing this law. And all of our debate in the Parliament in all of these readings has shown that we all want to encourage further economic recovery together because it is one of the measures of economic recovery, but at the same time we protect the interests of the area which is firstly owned by Croatia or the county, city or municipality. In accordance with this and all of this, I think that the bill is good, I certainly look forward to it, and often as mayor, I have the opportunity to have such questions on the agenda when the tenants have certain investments and then we always want to tell the people's language how much weight these values and investments are, whether the court experts estimate quality or non-quality I am glad that these repairs are determined here, so the additional actions are subject to a reduction in the lease but no more than 30%. It all goes hand in hand that I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79213	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79214	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would replicate an esteemed colleague only in the part where he mentioned it and, of course, I agree with his debate, when he mentioned what needs to be precisely contained in the buy-out contract let's say "awesome" so that there is no abuse of the rights acquired in the sense of including a buy-in contract and I would just quote the provision of Article 36. Which therefore defines exactly what such an example of a contract or such contract must contain in order to be valid. So he says, the provision of the law explicitly notes the ban on alienation of business space in time of 10 years from the date of conclusion of the contract on the purchase of space and the recording of the right to buy back into the seller. So here we have legal protection, so the institute is there, which in any case protects that the realisation of the contract itself is just taking place with the purpose of concluding a contract to rent a business space and not for some other speculative reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79215	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, it is clear that what the colleague said about this is precisely that the state, city or municipality is protected from possible behaviours that... in accordance with the law and that he is in fact a lawyer who has determined it as a tax law, but I would say here that we do not send the wrong message, the largest number and tenants and the potential buyer of business spaces are worth, honest people or natural or legal persons who have a goal exactly how to stimulate economic activity, the improvement for the company, their families and the general... countries, but this part of our debate was only in the context of the law to frame and to say that these safeguards are quality and appropriate under this Act and its articles and certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79217	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate on the order of the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, on the second reading, I had a lot of remarks on the bill's proposal, and it seems to me that almost everything has been accepted, so I'm really pleased that this law has received a high level of quality and I think I've contributed a little bit with my suggestions that have been accepted. I know he won't agree with me any local unit leaders, but that makes sense. But the state audit findings most often show how many problems there have been so far in the lease of business areas where local units have been borrowers. State audit findings warned that there was so much discrepancies in terms of deadlines, in terms of how to pay, in terms of trying to charge, when someone had long not paid their dues, so in the findings of the state audit when in most cases there was no trying to collect, the honor of the exceptions where it was neatly, has a environment where it was, but this was a major problem in the Republic of Croatia from the City of Zagreb. Man can be ashamed to read the state audits found when he sees some cities and municipalities, and the city of Zagreb is so carelessly treated with state property. And this bill will correct these rules so far but I cannot agree with some, counterpart Tomljanovic says the lease is a suspicious relationship, it is not a suspicious relationship with a colleague of Tomljanovic, you seem to have said so, because the lease is a normal relationship in the West. If you go to the cities of Western Europe, no one owns that space in the city center, everyone's in a long lease, but there they don't know what it means not to pay, they don't know what it means to be cousin or cousin, they don't know what it means not to take a guarantee, they don't know what it means to do when someone doesn't respect obligations, it was tradition, the way it works. There he does not know that someone in Ilica, as we do in Ilica, has a hair salon for about 50 years, at a cost of 50 euros, for the whole space, and whoever has to rent from a privateer pays 1000 euros for the same space, that's unacceptable, now this bill will correct it, fix it, and that's why it's good. I therefore thank the Ministry which accepted that when it comes to the lease of space owned by state and local units, it must not be leased unless the contract has been certified by the public notary and must be paid at all levels, throughout Croatia at the same time. By now, he could say in Zagreb that 6 months is a payment or not, in Senj that he must go ahead, as to who, now it is determined that everyone must pay in advance and all must act according to the law that they must charge and will not come to a situation that someone could not charge what they should have paid. So it's a big step in that part with me especially thanking that it's accepted and that's what you fellow Turks have indicated, it's been my amendment, that no one can be leased or buy a business space that's due to the state or workers for contributions. It's now done, it's going to be the biggest step in this part, it's an excellent solution. I'll just point out a little bit that there were areas where there could be a little more repairs, but there's always time. Let's say when it's said that for 20 years, it can be paid on a scale and that it can be taken away from someone if it doesn't carry out the activity of the one that is desirable for local self-government. I ask the question, what if someone's been doing the job they're looking for for for 19 years, then at 19? In the year he doesn't do that activity, do we break his contract and give him back the space that defines that back-purchase term buyback? It was also worth a little more careful to do so when it comes to the differences between ring payments and payments immediately. I said just before when paying would immediately even give a certain discount, and when paying at 20 years as provided by law here, at this point the interest of 4% is stimulating and will contribute to economic and growth and will contribute to economic activity and will contribute to local units the most. That's good. But we will come out of the crisis and not from the outside, from our forces, from our material and human forces. And we'll get out of the crisis. And then maybe in 10, in 2 or 15 years, that interest rate might not be appropriate. It may have been a more rational solution to that, but the moment this was discussed, I was on the operating table, so I couldn't intervene, but let's say Euribor plus 3% on Euribor, then we're protected for all 20 years. But I don't think that's such a problem, but we have time to fix it all. And another part where it might seem to me that everyone from the road is talking about the ways of craftsmen and the small activities of those traditional ones that are important to local self-government. Well, those are the ones you really need to protect, but they're not the only ones here, they're here and they're big, they're the ones who have supermarkets, they can have a supermarket. I think you could think about it, and it's not too late, to protect these little craftsmen from the big ones. They need help. The big ones don't need any help. If a person earns and earns extra profits on the world’s most expensive food, then the state does not need to meet below the average interest rate. But that would damage those in need, and then it's kind of acceptable. All in all, a great positive difference compared to the existing situation, and I hope that local units will approach the implementation of this law in a very serious and professional way because it depends on how positive this law will result. The truth that the law provides a lot of assurance and guarantees one quality implementation, but it is left to space and local units, that they too show a level of professionality. This is one of the few extraordinary legal solutions that recognized the current problems and responded to these problems, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79219	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I have to replicate to an esteemed colleague, although this is more about correcting the incorrect allegations in the sense that he said that in his debate, I said that the lease was a questionable business relationship. Well, I didn't think of my colleague as saying it, let alone saying it in the debate that the lease was a questionable business relationship. On the contrary. In my debate, I have apostrophe of those parts of this law that the possibility of a lease agreement and a buy-in contract in terms of the application of this law explain, specify and actually create all the doubts that may arise or we now have in practice some relationship that we do not have a valid lease agreement, whether, in terms of business space use, neither the activity, nor the deadlines, nor the lease, nor everything else that should stand in the lease agreement, on the one hand. And on the other hand, dear colleague, you won't convince me in terms of my opinion when I say that it is essential to encourage economic activity when we talk about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship solving property-legal relations. There is no investment, no development of activity in terms of business space or investment in business space if you do not have completed any validity on the lease of a business space for a longer period of time or if you are unable to buy that business space, therefore, transfer it to your own property and thus to your own family in terms of the development of the economic activity that is taking place in that business space to provide a normal existence. So this is why we adopt this law as a lex specialis as a special law which will be the basis for units of local self-government that have owned a business space to correctly define and resolve property-legislative relations with users of the business space that is owned by them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79221	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Tomljanović, I didn't try to convince you of anything at all. I agree with you that normal business and any activity economically requires a resolved property-legal relationship, but the lease is also settled property-legal relationship. And a lot of it rests on the lease, more than on the property when it comes to small crafts. I'm talking about the Western world, but so far, and it's probably what you said in your debate and said, so far the lease agreements have just taken place in suspicious situations. And that's why the lease in Croatia turned out to be a suspicious character. Well, of course not, when there's someone who hasn't paid the rent in 20 years. These are the findings of the State Audit. Then how come it's not suspicious? But now this law will not be able to come to this because no one will be able to sign the lease contract anymore without being signed in the sense of the public record of the document and... As for the same non-payment or regulation between the tenants and the tenants, this will now extremely secure this law and facilitate the business of the State Audit, because it has standards. These are standards set, and so far she had no standards and the State Audit was very difficult to do. So it's out there somewhere in some small local unit had one criterion in the city of Osijek the second, in Vrbovac the third, and now there are standards and the State Review will be able to make clear in its report who respects the law and who doesn't respect the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79223	And Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The text of this good discussion may, however, better draw attention that when we talk about both grandma and uncles, it is not necessary to run away from it. So, we're all flesh and blood people, everyone in their part of the job that runs the responsibility and it has, but certainly and I believe that my colleague Maric doesn't think about it when he said to generalise it. And neither by defending myself nor by attacking myself, I would like to conclude that you are doing business every day, and when it comes to this subject, based on situations where you are actually very difficult, very sadly sending someone a commission for certain non-payments in view of what is the basis of it. So hand to side, those who don't pay because someone forgot to count on him or because someone didn't warn him, didn't let him do it. An example from a few days ago in a major investment in which the municipal contribution as a commitment was intended for the wars, the last three wars of the investor simply, and the investments in production failed to pay. So, surely with the signed contracts here and the elements related to the municipal contributions I spotted it and must do all that to therefore through my collection instruments secure. So, I just want to say that life practice and everything that happens in cities, municipalities, counties and the state is generally arranged, and this law sets it well, but very often we find ourselves in situations where such decisions are difficult for us, with the conclusion that many laws have contributed to the quality of the bill again, because neither is the fiscal responsibility law that directly leads the people of cities and municipalities, but also the presidents... just drives in a way that is very responsible for the items of the budget both in private and in... [[You don't understand.]] meaning, precisely in the interest of quality of social resources. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79225	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79226	Comrade Turk, I've never generalized anything in my life, not about this. How can it be generalised when there are extremely honest and honest people to be highlighted, and there is also no need to hide that there is a bastard in Croatia. How to call someone who bought a new Mercedes, and the City of Zagreb has not paid the rent for 15 years. What do you call that act, and he's driving. So let's just look, and I asked the State Audit, who doesn't pay rents in Croatia, you'd be amazed. There are the richest people who don't pay the rent. I'm talking about them, not that, but a poor man never owes. An honest man never owes, he owes hohstuplers, and he doesn't owe because he doesn't, but because he spends in something else. He's got a yacht, and he owes it to the state, and he doesn't pay the worker, and I'm talking about it, and I'm gonna talk about it forever because it's my call. But you can't read, with abdominal nausea you have to read the state audits, from Primorje via Zagorje to Slavonia and that there are no instruments. He says for a local leader for ten years they haven't tried to charge any of the tenants, so how do you explain it? And then I asked to write down whatever leader it is that they never pick him again. And there are some, I'm talking about them. There are honest people, more honest in Croatia than in these, only these, their misdeeds are bigger and more resulting, but in Croatia 90% of honest people are more, only the influence of those who want Croatia in every way. There are also those who would only burn it if they knew they'd make a living on the ashes. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79227	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am also joining the debate on this subject, although I have joined this debate for the third time since it is the third reading. This is one of the few laws that goes through three readings to pass its conditionally said calvary. And of course, this time, as I said twice before, I think this law is welcome, that it's good to have it, that this law is trying to bring about certain relationships, relations between those who own space and those who are leased in that space. The relationship between the temporary use of this space gives certain uncertainty to those who are in that space in terms of possible investments and efforts to ensure not only their existence but also to employ some people in their own crafts, etc. In this sense, I join all those who have said this helps develop crafts, how this helps Croatia's economy in the first order, and only in the second row is the sale of space owned by the Republic of Croatia, the County, the City of Zagreb, cities, municipalities, etc. can be achieved in concrete money. It is also important to point out that this is not only about exclusive ownership but also about co-ownership of space as an issue that is important for the regulation of these relationships. The interest in this law certainly exists in the tenants, craftsmen and those in this sense support. I would point out one problem and join a debate. A concrete debate on the last replicas they were, the issue of a ring payment or a one-time payment. In fact, it seems to me to be a question of the relationship between the one who owns his business policy and the one who joined such a contract. However, the debate also shows me actually a key problem, that this law is trying to eventually resolve some of the principles that need to exist in a quality way, and they are actually thrown out on the opposite side. Namely, the question of the financial order of rent and this, I don't know how much this law can regulate, but it is absolutely true what counterpart Maric said, that there is one mess in it and of course that all units, all municipalities, all cities, states and counties would be interested in doing this orderly business and that all those requirements would be charged. The fact is that it is pointed out by fellow Maric, but I think it is a general fact that is not specifically related to this and it is a matter of order and of those who need to pay for the orderliness of those who need to collect whether they are doing it the way they should. I think the state itself is looking for huge money in terms of those who owe them, not only from taxes but in different ways and so on all units of local administrations and self-government. Therefore, the question of one such orderly payment of its obligations, I think, could be regulated by one specific law or by some specific regulation or regulation which would also apply to any law that regulates such financial relations with one another and should not enter into the specific nature of that law as is the subject of this law. The thieves are thieves, so they should be dealt with as they are, no matter how big and where they are. I would just point out one specificity of this, which is that many spaces are also located in objects that represent cultural goods. And I think that subject deserves a little attention. Namely, while the owner of a cultural good country assumes that the state will take better care of this cultural good, and when it comes into possession of a private person there is a concern that he may not respect all those principles, there is no God here, Bishop, who once took care of it at the minister's place, to provide some instruments that would be the issue of this cultural good, the situation of this cultural good and its future not only in terms of preservation but maintenance and possibly even giving insight and others if this culturally well represents a particular cultural attraction that tourists visit or others. So certain obligations to make it available. Let's just say because of the illustration, not because of a concrete example of the problem, the bell tower of St. It's blowing up in Split to be visited. So it represents one cultural good though the church controls it. In a certain way, these relations must exist. They still exist today, so I point out that I am only one positive example in all of this together and in terms of maintenance, and also in terms of permission to use the facility. So it's the only thing that would certainly be possible not in terms of including the law. But warnings that it should be taken into account in practice whether it is a guideline or one of those. But perhaps the Ministry of Culture or those who are in charge, which is not a ministry, some regional level might, with a sales contract or a purchase, put certain fences, or conditions under which it is sold in terms of the further life of that cultural goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79229	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Roshin, perhaps in all these discussions, we haven't pointed out enough one intensities that the government wants to make through this law, which is that it finally gives local self-government units the opportunity to determine what they will be in certain areas. But I would look a little bit at this law in a slightly wider context. First, what we keep mentioning is that laws need to be passed so that someone can charge something when it's already regulated by certain laws, only the question is whether someone wants to or doesn't want to. I will only tell you one example at the moment when you decided to form a concession register in Croatia. Because concessions from individual offices per ministry to local self-government units under various laws have the right to each and every one of us and to have that register in one place, some cities rising with openness. We've sent them a warning 20 times just to send us a list of concessionaries. We didn't even ask for a contract. However, when we talk about decentralisation of certain funds, then we should also look at the possibilities of local self-government units according to existing laws to raise funds and whether they are collecting funds. It's another thing. We like to all drill in the chest to help craftsmen, how we should give craftsmen this or that. This Law is a unique opportunity to units of local self-government through the assignment of a business space to protect certain traditional crafts. And that's what we should talk about when we talk about this law. Let's not look at things that are somewhere in the clouds, that no one cares about, that no one wants to decide about. Let's go down to where the real problems are. See how many in Zagreb are in the center of the city, we can have any city, there may be one or two cities in Croatia which are the exception to the disappearance of traditional crafts. They simply disappeared, and theirs is a simple place in the old core. But then we should talk about a different lease, and then we should also look at it if someone has come into certain business problems that the local self-government unit can help him, and let's not make another new law that won't basically bring anything. We'll just have a bunch of laws and a bunch of administrative obstacles that won't mean anything to anyone. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79231	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79232	Comrade Shuker, I've seen this more as a mini debate than a replica of some of my speeches so that I can discuss with you who's right in that regard. So you said what I absolutely agree with. One law cannot regulate behavior in general. Therefore, it is certain principles such as the issue of financial arrangements for payment of obligations that should be linked to everything and certain laws should not be introduced, and these principles should, if we have them, be applied to the orderly functioning of the state in general, not to the full law. So, I totally agree with that, and you've taken advantage of the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79233	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a lot of words about this law. He's good, obviously we all support him. But here's a few basics of my thinking. We have heard that the adoption of this new law on the lease and sale of business space is foreseen as measure 3 as part of the programme of measures to simplify the business of small economy entities. Adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in June 2010, and according to the economic activity plan of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, just one more in a series of measures that is more efficient in implementing the ongoing economic recovery programme, which we are carrying out at different levels, and this is about renting and selling business space and simplifying the procedure in that segment. The current law on the lease of business space, which we have changed three times, adopted the initiative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the City of Zagreb to enable this law to sell business space and to own units of local self-government and units of regional self-government as an initiative to sell the wider circle of entities to tenants, i.e. users of this area, and not just as it has been for so far to micro or small entities of the small economy. Of course, with the appropriate conditions, the appropriate procedure as well as for business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, which all together pointed to the necessity of changing the law that is here after the third reading, I believe that we will and obviously accept it by consensus. This final proposal allows current tenants, i.e. users of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, municipalities, cities, counties and the City of Zagreb. Of course, those who regularly fulfil all the obligations under the lease agreement and other financial obligations under the unit of local and regional self-government and, subject to an additional condition, to the five-year use of that area, with the required exceptions to the purchase of those premises, subject to the conditions and procedure laid down in this law, i.e. by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the decisions of the units of local, regional (regional) self-government. From this it is clearly visible, and not only from the fact that the Republic of Croatia has determined a small economy in which craftsmanship is too heavy, as part of the fundamental background of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Since craftsmen are the most frequently hired business premises, it will be through the law, the legal possibility of buying a business space that they use to improve their position by providing them with security through doing business in their own space. This definitely contributes to strengthening the small economy, i.e. entrepreneurship. Here's a few of the same references to the discussions and replicas that were in the previous discussions. The issue of ownership relations, i.e. the ownership of business space, I think it is crucial in this whole story that with this part of the lease, the situation is quite clear, thanks again to the possibility of Croatian defenders, that, in accordance with the law with all the conditions, the acceptance of the highest price of the lease is still a priority, I think it is a good thing, I don't know why we couldn't foresee it in the event of the purchase of a business space such one option for Croatian defenders and members of their families. I want to say that property in space is the possibility to invest more in this space, that this space is used as a guarantee for raising different loan guarantees, that the business's own space guarantees long-term security, opens up the possibility of developing this business, opens up the possibility of investing in the space that will be owned by it, because we see from a whole range of space that today is in the lease that people are not ready to invest more significant financial resources in its arrangement, adaptation, rebuilding that space simply by investing in other people's property, and a completely different situation will be when crafts, small entrepreneurs and all others become owners of the space in which they work, performing different economic activities. Furthermore, we talked here about the collection of claims, the orderly payment of commitments, the certificates of the contract with the public notary. Here's a few words on that. Today we have instruments and laws like fellow Shucker said that regulate the collection of claims, all possible actions that the units of local self-government and all other entities in business in the Republic of Croatia can take in accordance with the law to improve the collection of their claims. As the leaders of the local self-government units, we have at our disposal a whole range of instruments to carry out more quality payment of the claim, including from the lease of business space than all other incomes that the local self-government unit generates from different tax revenues, communal fees, municipal contributions, land sales, and everything else that makes the income of a local self-government unit, and I am surprised, and I have to admit that I have not read in detail the findings of the state audit, that there are units of local self-government which, for 10, 15 or 20 years, are not in the interest to collect certain revenues that they account for, borrow, create, make certain income opportunities in their budget, and that they do not take up to these revenues, to this money and come. Especially today when every kuna that comes into the budget of the municipality, the city, the county has a fivefold value than a few years ago, before this economic crisis that still exists today in our country and Europe, and in the world today, this kuna that we charge has a far greater value than a few years ago, until we were all together in this situation, and I am surprised by the indifference, inertity of the unit leaders of local self-government to make such incomes of course to all legal opportunities and come. As far as this is concerned, my colleague Maric's consideration of a contract with public notebooks is concerned. We today have to verify our retail travel orders with public notaries, different documents, purchase contracts, everything else neatly with public notaries, we pay no small fees for these certificates, but unfortunately, if these contracts and local self-government units do not take certain actions related to the performance of the contractual obligations, it is mainly about the collection of certain claims of the purchase price or of someone else, this certificate with the public notary is virtually irrelevant and does not mean anything. A good bargaining and fair business relationship between the buyer, the seller, today is resolved by a contract which, of course, we confirm with the public notary, but according to which certain stores of late payment and settlement issues, possible changes in the purchase conditions, if justified, still have to solve two sides of the customer and seller contract, and the public notary unfortunately only confirms those contracts and there is no other legal importance, nor legal possibility to monitor the realisation of that purchase relationship. So it's up to all of us in this case both the state and the city of Zagreb and the county and the cities and municipalities that this kind of income from the lease of business space, from selling the business space that we charge more neatly, to fill our budgets, because, of course, expenditures don't go down, they just increase, and today it's very difficult to get to every swearing income, and we all need to make sure that every kuna that's scheduled to come into the budget from the least municipality, to the state budget at the time and according to the law in that budget and come. And finally, I would like to say that here is the conversation with the members of the Zagreb craftsmen's association, I would like to commend the adoption of this law, they are looking forward to this possibility for years and welcome the adoption of the Law on the Hire and Sales of Business Space, of course, and I also support the adoption of this law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79235	Thank you. Three replicas. First, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Huška, I'm glad you recognize all the values of this kind of law, and I share your opinion that we are all responsible for every kuna that enters the budget and unit of local self-government, as regionally as well as the state budget. But I find it appropriate, in fact, and perhaps in this place, to point out a very important dimension, which can also be meant for the adoption of this law, which is not used, or yet unscheduled areas of land where they were formerly military. Often in, mainly in the last few years, and here you are also one of the leaders of local self-government, you can also testify that we have vast spaces that have not yet been brought to the senses, specifically my city of Sibenik in some previous time two, two large complexes that were in the earlier purpose of the army were brought in purpose. For them, of course, it was necessary to bring in spatial-planned documentation, to carry out certain I would say conditional investment cycles and bring them in and bring them to the point. Now, in these moments, we can often actually hear big calls to the government of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that it is unwarranted and we have to stress once again that it is a great responsibility to the unit of local self-government that, in fact, those spaces for which, and the military, former military, for which the Croatian Army, or the Ministry of Defence, no longer holds them to perspective. Therefore, the units of local self-government when they first bring in spatial-planned documentation and highlight the purpose and the purpose of using these spaces will be no reason for the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to assign those spaces to those units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79237	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79238	That's right, colleague, you've noticed this well, and I agree with you that definitely the initiative must come from the basic base of the local self-government unit. Which is worth it, I don't know in the city of Sibenik or anywhere else, which has military facilities and military lands if it can't be used and valorized. I must say that as the head of a local self-government unit, I was a little jealous of some who had been given state to use and military facilities and owned different land, but this was given to those cities and municipalities that made good programs to use these spaces and where the state practically gave them without compensation and facilities for use. The best example is just one good and fair intention of the state, the land that we get for our economic zones. Millions of square meters, tens of square kilometers over the past 5, 6, 7 years, and particularly intensively over the past two years have been donated to local self-government units for the development of economic zones and this is one of the most successful projects. I personally keep it that way, and I know from talking to the leaders of the local self-government units where we got free land and where we prepared the project documentation, of course the prerequisite is space-plan documentation. But it is again one conscience, responsibility and obligation of the units of local self-government. If there's no initiative, no idea, basically a will for a lot of work because it's not a simple job in a local self-government unit for free to someone hundreds of square miles if they don't know what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79239	Mr. Representative Ivo Scissor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Huška, has touched this problem of income from local self-government units and the collection of these revenues, and I think it's very important and very important to say a few more words about it. In fact, we who have only our own original incomes and have no donations really try to make such incomes and incomes so that they can function. The State audit shall also always state if not enough has been done or all measures have not been taken to ensure that these revenues are realised. However, there are situations that are insecure for local self-government. And I'm going to illustrate it with one example. For example, in the case of a municipal fee – you achieve in the process of performance, the entity's account is blocked and there is no funds on it, you find him other accounts there are no funds on them, but he still normally works, he continues to normally run the coffee shop, he remains a normal shop, he still works normally. What can a local self-government unit do? Unfortunately, I've been mayor for many years and I don't know the answer to that question because as long as we do, there's nothing we can do. There's no money in the account, and the place is open. And so unfortunately for years. Here, I think that's one important question that should be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79241	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79242	Yeah, we're dealing with the same problems obviously. And for us in smaller units of local self-government, it's all clear because we fight for every kuna. Some major cities that have larger original incomes, some revenue from selling real estate, do much simpler solutions or rather do not solve the problem of paying for each kuna. Here's one specific experience about cafes. We all know what kind of people you're dealing with, and so are you in Omis and me in Pakrac, if he opens one cafe he doesn't pay his dues for half a year in another coffee shop with a new twist or co-owner or owner, and he also makes debts there not only to us, he also makes the IRS and some other entities, so he moves to a third cafe or another town for a while. For now, we are the only thing the law allows us to do, of course, with all the collection measures that we take, but unfortunately it has no special effect, we went to that possibility legally which allows us, as units of local self-government, to determine the working time of cafes and catering facilities. So with the entities where we have trouble collecting, to disrupt public order and peace, for frequent complaints citizens go to the maximum possible shortening of the working time of the restaurant, then report to the police and the inspectorate. So practically this catering facility, i.e. its owner, must decide whether to pay the city a communal fee and some other small liabilities or three, four, five hours shorter than other restaurants and lose a significant amount of income. It's up to him to decide. And I can tell you that kind of activity gives a little bit of results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79243	And Mr. Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Huška about the confirmation of public notebooks of these lease contracts and asked if it would result in a better result than it is so far. I think so. If so far it could have been a lease agreement that there was no guarantee the day after that lease contract, and there was a crowd, there was no formal possibility to charge only the well-willed one who was in debt. And we know what's in Croatia if we leave them at will. Some have who think they need a concession to get to the whole country, there are some. And here, when a contract is concluded with a public notary and it's a long-term relationship, and the contract only checks out once, so it will result, at least his wife at home will warn him, so there's a do-over, man. Go deal with it. Someone will encourage him, and if we have nothing, the executive law will also help. Finna's helping. So you see how different they react when the execution comes now from FINA, everyone runs and pays. So this will help, too, prevent those who think they can live at the expense of others exclusively.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79245	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79246	I agree with my colleague fully with you, I do not wish to verify the contract with the public notary, but if the contract is not well settled, if the contract does not provide for the details of the payment insurance instruments resulting from the agreement itself, the public notary’s certificate is practically worthless. We are increasingly agreeing on different instruments of return insurance, i.e. payment of obligations under contract, so in practice and certain banks we are trying to ensure ourselves in a way that we are enrolling with the burden of speaking as units of local self-government, a burden of property that we do not allow the transfer of ownership to pay the total purchase price for a particular land, apartment or other facility, which I think is the best model of protection, for example, land sales in the economic zone, where the new owner can enter one/1 just at the cost of the total purchase price and there is no possibility of any early registration of land transfer on himself, land reselling or some other things simply running away from the obligations that are agreed, it is one of the best models that I give us, we have good laws and the Executive Law and the Law on mandatory relations but all this expensive need to live in practice, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79247	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79248	We move on to the Final Proposal for a law on the lease and purchase of a business space. This is the third reading. P.Z. No. 672. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendments of the Committee on Justice and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law on the lease and sale of business space. Please, let's get on board and vote and check it out. This bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes, together with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79249	We move to the next item - Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and members of the Civil Intelligence Agency's Security and Intelligence Board, Proposer: Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The Committee has proposed this Decision on the basis of Article 3. Decisions on the Civil Supervisory Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. You received the proposal by mail. Proposer representative, committee president Mr Tomislav Culjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79250	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to briefly explain the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Council decisions on civil surveillance of security intelligence agencies at 69. The Committee's session discussed the appointment of members of the civil surveillance council of the security-intelligence agencies. The Committee received a total of 12 applications from candidates and established that all meet the formal conditions for the president and 6 members of the Council. In the course of the appointment process, one candidate gave up his candidacy. With candidates who have not been members of the Civil Intelligence Council so far at 68. The Committee's meeting was held. The procedure requested the implementation of a thorough security check for all candidates who do not have a certificate. In principle, the Council's work so far has been supported and the proposal to propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of former members of the Council in view of the experience in the work and the successful performance of all the tasks of the Council's competence. On the proposal for a decision for the President of the Civil Watch Council, the committee decided by voting 6 votes in favour and 1 abstention to propose a professor, Dr Krunoslav Antolish. The Committee decided by a majority vote of 6 votes in favour of and 1 against to send the Croatian Assembly a proposal to present members of the Council for Civil Intelligence Oversight. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion: The proposal for a decision to appoint a president and members of the Civil Intelligence Agency's Board is addressed to the Croatian Parliament and to the President Dr. Krunoslav Antolish professor of scientific research at the Higher Police School, Police Academy, Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. For the members of Mile Čulumović, a graduate electrical engineering engineer from Zagreb, Zoran Grgić graduated engineering engineer from Lipovac, professor Dr. Drazen Harasin docent at the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, Sanja Sarnavek professor of comparative literature from Zagreb, professor Dr Nikola Mijatović graduated legal from Zagreb and Nenada Vukman graduate politologist from Zagreb. Here it is, this is the proposal, we expect support.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79251	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79252	Here, along with the appointment of members of the Civil Surveillance Council, it is necessary to say that, with the Office of the National Security Council, which conducts expert supervision of the work of the security system, and parliamentary oversight directly carried out by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the supervision of the security agencies and the Civil Surveillance Council, as one additional democratic control of the security system, consisting of representatives of the Croatian Society, i.e. Citizens. During the previous term of office of the Civil Supervisory Council, the Council acted on the public's representations and carried out announced and extraordinary controls, and submitted a report on its conduct. I think we can express our satisfaction but also of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the Civil Watch Council in the past term has not established illegal treatment and violations of human rights. The Council has fulfilled its legal obligations in a correct and acceptable manner but it is most important that the security system works in accordance with the Constitution and the law and that there is no abuse or violation of human rights, and today we can commend the professional work of the security and intelligence system. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy, which proposes the appointment of former members of the Council. We also support the appointment of Professor Dr Krunoslav Antolis as President of the Council for his experience and continuity which will ensure that the Civil Intelligence Committee continues to work successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79253	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79254	Proposal for a decision appointing the President and members of the Civil Control Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Civil Control Council of the Security and Intelligence Agency. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. The result? Is it? That the proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes in the text as proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79255	We move to the next point - Report on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the period from 1. January to 31. December 2010. Year, Carrier: Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund submitted this Report on the basis of Article 8. Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund. You received the proposal by mail. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget and the Economic Committee. The chairman of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's Supervisory Board, Goran Maric, will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When it's nine. July 2010. Last year, this Parliament appointed the SDP Supervisory Board of counterparts Linic said it honours dinner that if the Supervisory Board meets and two pays if the Supervisory Board submits a report. I'm sorry he's gone today because I thought half the time my deputy colleague Linic was talking about the report, and half I was. But I'll have to do it myself. So this is after 13 years the first report by the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. First after 13 years and last. Lastly, because the Law on State Property Management is formed, the Agency for State Property Management is no longer established under the new law by the State Agency for State Property Management. I think it was even necessary to keep the supervisory board outside the Croatian Parliament and the Agency for the Management of State Property, because this supervisory board has done a huge, huge job, a very professional and above all professional job. I would stress that regardless of the diversity of the party or independent members of the Supervisory Board, all decisions of the Supervisory Board were unanimous. Why? Because it only covers what is within the scope of the Supervisory Board's work and the professional relationship was according to the work of the Supervisory Board. This report contains a number of relevant relevant relevant data that so far no one has been able to see in one place. This is a very valuable display that reflects the real and objective state of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We couldn't get in to assess the legality of the work even though it was stipulated by law, because we didn't have time for it. We worked for several months and held several sessions in these few months and put together this valuable report that we are submitting to the Croatian Parliament this time. We did what we could, discussed the annual report. The financial plan, which was our legal obligation to accept the financial plan, was not possible because the financial plan was adopted before we were appointed. So within limits of limited time, we've both done the optimum and maximum. This report points to the huge economic potential of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the possibility that if this potential finds an optimal model of managing these potentials that this potential can be a generator of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia, but it needs to find an optimal model. He hasn't been found yet. It may be this report may be a foothold for many future important decisions, as it contains a large number of relevant useful and very instructive data. It contains information from financial operations in 2010, on the commitments of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, on the short-term loans granted, on claims, on the management of shares and business shares, on the sale of shares and business shares, on the business of the real estate sector up to the details of this report can be found out but also draw certain conclusions. The business of the Croatian Privatisation Fund is also particularly highlighted. It has been reviewed by all short-term loans from the Croatian Privatisation Fund since '97. A year to this day. That data, unfortunately, doesn't encourage. In total, the Croatian Privatisation Fund approved a billion 583 million 31,000 kuna short-term loans, and only 10 companies received nearly a billion kuna. The return of these funds is almost impossible, some 300 million kuna was charged, and the rest would be hard to charge. It is not a problem that the Croatian Privatisation Fund was in debt with business banks to lend to companies in difficulty and many positive consequences resulted. But there was also no optimal model, there was no simulation of the situation, there was no detailed analysis of the situation in these companies that were given these loans, they were not restructured because loans were to go through the restructuring plan from business restructuring to human restructuring to new business plans. Unfortunately, the directors remained the same, the problems remained the same, and they only received the money they spent, so that the condition of those who received loans after 7, 8 or 2 years or the same or worse and the effect of that was nothing but a delayed problem for several years, but a problem that was greater than a few years ago. So it was ad hoc, not a systematic approach. And of course there are some difficulties out of that. As regards the costs of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, it is seen that the high costs were interest costs, as commercial loans were raised from commercial banks with high interest rates, that they were high costs of intellectual services, several million kunas. It is good that the reduced costs for employees are reduced, but from these reduced salaries have resulted in several dozen lawsuits with even greater damage than the benefits of reduced salaries. And the question is, did this achieve the expected positive or unexpected negative effect? So, the Croatian Privatisation Fund stopped working, the Supervisory Board ended its mission and the first one after 13 years, the first report, with the fact that I have to point out that previous supervisory committees had not met at all, that the supervisory board had not met at all, that a supervisory board had met only once, and had not decided anything at all. But here this will be a permanent document on the real state of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, suggests a lot of things and requires a change in the governance model of state property and points to a huge, huge economic potential not used enough when it comes to state property. Also, the work of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund would not have been such a quality report if we had not had an extraordinary cooperation with all the professional services in the Croatian Privatisation Fund and I must point out that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has enough professional and trained people and I think insufficiently used and that the drop in expenditure for the training and training of these employees is not a good guideline but that it is necessary to perfect them even more. Finally, it shouldn't be saved in tens of thousands of kunas because there are very, very valuable people who have been doing their job for many years. But key, strategic decisions on state property management require systematic analysis of model simulations and expected results, but also the change of those who have managed state-owned companies for years in an inefficient and irrational way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79257	Thank you. Reporters of the board, finance and state budget, economy? I'm opening a debate. HNS-HSU representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79258	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The report of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund in point 1.1 states what duties the Supervisory Board has and writes, to quote: "According to the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Supervisory Board oversees the legality of work, discusses the financial plan, the annual report on business as well as the final account of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. At the same time, the Supervisory Board shall monitor the implementation of the work plan, monitor the use of material and financial resources, and monitor and determine whether the operation of the HFP has been conducted neatly and in accordance with the rules. Also, according to the HFP Act, the Supervisory Board is obliged to submit a report once a year to the Croatian Parliament." However, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund since 1998 has not submitted a report on its work to the Croatian Parliament in all these 13 years. So we can say that the last report was filed back in 1998 and in '97. A year. Since then, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not actually regularly or held meetings and since September 2004 until the end of 2007, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not met at all. From January 2008 to July 2010, he was not even appointed. How to comment on these facts? First of all, that the Supervisory Board had failed to perform its basic function and that it had thus systematically violated the law for 13 years. The government of the Republic of Croatia also violated the law because it missed two years in a row, from 2008 to 2010 submitted a proposal to the Assembly for appointments of new members of the Supervisory Board. It is obvious here that institutions and responsible persons who propose laws do not respect the same laws. So this is about the irresponsibility and violation of the legal rules at the highest possible level. Next, let's look at some details from the report. For example, the Croatian Privatisation Fund's revenue, which shows that the fund planned revenues in 2010 amounting to 190 million kunas. He made 163 million 817 thousand and 34 kunas, which represents the achievement of the plan slightly more than 85%, so the bribe almost 15%. For the professional training of workers, the fund had a cost of 15 thousand 629 kuna in 2010 which is 67.7% less than planned and compared to 2009 when these costs amounted to almost 49,000. On the other hand, for intellectual and personal services, the Croatian Privatisation Fund had expenditures of 3 million 721 thousand 453 kuna in 2010. Costs for other services which are craft-service, tenders and similar increases in 2010 per million and 211 thousand 902 kuna. The State audit found with its insight into the operations of the fund that some external partners had no contract at all, and paid them compensation, and in some cases it was not even a certified account on the basis of which the fund paid the service. This is evident from the 2009 State Audit Report. Total expenditure for fund workers amounted to 32 million 456 thousand 899.10 kuna in 2010 with gross salaries of workers who amounted to 31 million 850 thousand kuna. There were severances, rewards, aids of 606,000 kuna. Thus, total expenditures were reduced compared to 2009 by nearly 950 thousand kuna, down from almost 3%. However, this information is not correct because in 2010, a dozen employees of the fund retired and, in accordance with the labour contract that the fund concluded in 2004 with the employees were obliged to pay the same severance fees but did not pay them the severance payment. If he had paid off this information, it would have been correct and accurate. Which means it can be expected that this amount of expenditure will increase by tens of millions of damages in the future, especially due to the high cost of disputes and interest. It's a shame the team is bigger that the fund could have avoided such high costs that it had changed contracts for employees to agree to anyway. However, none of the presidents of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board have responded. Everyone knew there was this problem. The approved short-term loans of HFP 2.26 quote: "The trading societies which the Croatian Privatisation Fund approves of short-term loans do not generally return them." The granting of short-term loans to companies may be considered economically justified only in cases where it is a matter of bridging insolvency. The practice of granting short-term loans to workers’ wage companies has proved incomplete. The lack of the level of responsibility of management and supervisory boards of companies approved by the Fund for short-term loans as well as lack of clear and business strategies, lack of clear business policy, clear business objectives and plans has been observed. At the same time, trade companies often made irrational, economically unwarranted business decisions. Everything speaks for itself. The total amount of short-term loans paid out of a billion 583 million 31 thousand 630 kuna was charged by HFP 331 million 813 thousand to the principal alone, and a billion and 228 million were reported in bankruptcy as regards debts per principal and interest. So these figures clearly show that they were unsupervised loans, so it's a question of all the questions why they were even approved and paid. The lack of responsibility of the management and supervisory boards of commercial companies is also cited. However, the lack of responsibilities of responsible people in the fund and the Management Board of the Fund that made adverse decisions should also be mentioned, and the Supervisory Board did not actually oversee them at all. Also in the 2009 State Audit Office report, the Fund is warned of illegal conduct where it literally states: "The Competition Protection Agency warns the Fund that illegal support is involved and that the Fund is in the future to ask the Agency for the subsequent approval of the aid granted under the State Aid Act. Therefore, the fact is that loans have been granted to some already privatised companies, and from this it is evident how incomplete the loan policy was because the funds could be spent on job creation and re-employment. But no, further and again, the law has been broken. If we look at the structure of the companies in which the loans were paid, we see that they are companies that are before bankruptcy or are already in bankruptcy. For example Jadran d.d., Crikvenica, Željezara Split d.d., Kaštel Sucurac, then Croatia line d.d. from Rijeka, Dalmatia wine d.d. from Split, which only extended the agony of these companies. As regards the dividends of companies whose shares and business shares are managed by the fund in 2010, the report says that in 2010 the fund was paid an amount of 10 million 255 thousand 909 kuna and 41 lira on the basis of dividends. This amount is not a 2010 dividend for companies but is a payment to HFP based on the dividend paid for 2010 but also earlier in the year as well as the amount earned by the fund for the outstanding dividends of companies from earlier years. When you look at the dividend levels this year in 2010 it was the lowest on the basis of the draft fund, not counting of course '93. a year, still warring when the fund was founded and the total dividend-based payment amounted to slightly less than 4 million kuna. Where the provisions of Article 223 are concerned, The company law provides that shareholders acquire according to the company of demand for dividend payments on the end of the day when the main assembly is concluded and no later than 30 days after the same we are interested in whether Pastor d.d. Zagreb's ownership of the current Deputy Prime Minister finally paid off the fund of around 500,000 kuna dividends that he has owed to the Croatian Privatisation Fund for years. Furthermore, it is also interesting to see a settlement between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and SN Holding. In July 2010. HFP also prepared after a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sign an agreement with the SN holding company that resolved all disputes between the Fund and the SN holding company, resulting from the coupon privatisation. By that agreement, the fund was transferred to Liburnia Riviera hotels d.d. which makes 54.83% of the company's core capital. The SN holding company, therefore, transferred and was obliged to pay 162 million 105 thousand 182 kuna and 24 June to the company SN holding, and the SN holding was obliged to give up and suspend all proceedings it had initiated against the fund. The purpose of the coupon privatisation. It was actually damage to the victims of the Homeland War. This goal is actually, it's seen from this case completely missed. The victims have been manipulated, the damage done to both the victims and the budget. As far as the conclusion of this report is concerned, it says that this is the first report since '98. the year but also the last since 1 April 2011 the Croatian Privatisation Fund has ceased its work. The same day of work begins the Agency for the Management of State Property. Can it be a more embarrassing conclusion than this? So, since '98. This is the first and only report of one of the most important institutions that has long-term shaped the development of the Republic of Croatia and the privatisation process directly created and directed ours, from which the Republic of Croatia will have damage or benefit for decades. It is also stated that the Law on State Property Management has established an appropriate legal institutional supervisory framework for more efficient and responsible management of state assets, more fully and correctly recording of state assets and a more visible and efficient system of governance of state assets. I don't remember a single document in which the government is practically criticizing itself in this open manner, because this alleged recognition that the management of the property was either not there, or that it wasn't effective. Will the renaming of this institute, or the institution of the fund in the agency, and the new reorganisation that the note has not yet been made change that way of managing or not managing unless we change the people responsible for this process? We in the club of the Croatian People's Party and HSU suspect, and with great disappointment we comment on such a report after 1998 as it says first and only. Maybe if it hadn't been for the fund to be abolished, they'd never have seen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79259	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79260	It is not true that we would not have seen this report if it had not been for the decision to set up, that the trust was abolished, because the Supervisory Board was appointed before the decision to abolish the fund. So it would be him. It is not true that the expenditures for employees of 32 million 456 thousand 899.10 kuna are not accurate because you say there are no shipping expenses involved. You should know accounting standards and accounting policies, so then you would know exactly there were no severances included, but they can't be, they will be included if they come on trial charges or settlements, and then there will be extraordinary expenditures, but this data is accurate, and it is accountingly accurate. And the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board, is not correct that it did not intervene, but twice in writing referred to the Management Board as asking for a review of the decision to cut workers' salaries because it warned that high damage and compensation would occur although labour contracts had some unacceptable conditions, but workers were not allowed to reduce wages, it was a irrational decision, and such a position the Supervisory Board always had a unanimous view on the matter. So you didn't say exactly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79261	Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is incorrect to assume that loans were granted to bankrupt companies, because according to the bankruptcy law it is clear exactly what financial business is... The second thing, good thing you said today publicly that you were against the fact that several hundred workers of Dalmatia and others were paid with the help of the government,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that the problem of Dalmatia began at the time of the coalition government, therefore this is not the problem of a government, but very interesting that you did not mention the so-called so-called in your very generous speech. rights paid for from 2000 to 2003, so it would be very interesting to see who came to certain shares on the basis of the purchase of these rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79263	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is a shame to discuss and discuss the report today before the vote and in this kind of time pressure, such important matter as the report on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, including for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010. But this now more non-existent Croatian Privatisation Fund deserves to be discussed and in connection with its work in earlier years, so thank you to Mr Marić for finally after how many 13 years I don't know, finally made an effort, effort, knowledge to make a report at least for 2010 on which, in fact, and after that, the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund begins, and the AUDI Agency for State Property Management begins to work. It is known to all how many affairs are almost I would tell criminal affairs about, how many criminal actions are related to the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It would not be a day-long debate, and it would be more than enough to discuss everything that is privatised, and how it is privatised that individuals, groups, interest groups came into property, to say in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That is why it is embarrassing and sad that we are here today discussing this last year of existence and the report that is here, which was referred to by Mr Maric. Is it deliberately put in today for discussion I don't know, but that's how it works out. Comedy e finita would be said of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, unfortunately this comedy is actually a tragedy for the entire Croatian society and the Croatian economy. Marked by the affairs of the maester one, maester two, the great maester and maester, which orchestrated the sale of Croatian property, the property of the Croatian people and what was acquired for decades and centuries in Croatia. And now we are discussing in five minutes better about the Croatian Privatisation Fund, about those who are responsible for what happened. Mr. Maric made only for the last year of the report, but what about these years in which Croatian property was inhabited, in which according to some news, the allowance was 50,000 euros just to come to talk about selling or buying some property in the Republic of Croatia? What's up with that? In this 2010 report, here's an example, it says that the 2010 real estate revenue is planned for 50 million kuna, reached 13.7% or 6 million kuna and 680 thousand kuna. It is only one example of how to say the business of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. But there are far more important data on the names that were in the management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and on the Supervisory Board or the boards of the Croatian Privatisation Fund before you, Mr Maric. So you can see the strength and influence of politics and political elite on what was happening in Croatia and why Croatia today is largely in a situation where, rather than being justified by recession, the global crisis, etc. The Croatian Privatisation Fund, which has disappeared, and we have received a new name and a new legal entity, the Agency for the Management of State Property, has to be said here when its existence has ceased to be one of the main secretaries for this situation in the Croatian economy, for this state of the Croatian nation, for this state of people who have an 80 % perception that they are poor. 80% of the people in the Republic have perceptions that they're poor, and if we looked at them realistically by some parameters, then maybe that would be 50%. That is why I am sorry that there is this time pressure, but if we were to elaborate everything that has been done by the hotel so as not to say further in the privatisation, and through the Croatian Privatisation Fund, then we would come up with the disastrous defeating results of how the hotels, who took part in the game, I am not saving there neither left nor right, especially starting with Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik Bank and Hotel Štrokov, etc., right Mr. Matosic, and how many millions of euros, hundreds of millions of euros stolen from this people and this country. ... I said that, Strok, the Linic axis and there's an axle yet, sir, but don't you worry that Linic is just here, he's got as many of you as you want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I did not expect this debate to be held today, but what to say is that your report as a report for 2010 is correctly written and it explains everything can be accepted, but the total Croatian Privatisation Fund does not receive either a passing or a positive rating from the HDSSB club or from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79265	One correction, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79266	Thank you, Mr. President. I know you remembered my debate with my colleague Grubisic with Slavko Linic, but for the sake of the public, all these hotels sold SDP with his partners in 2002, 2003, and it sold them in a shameful manner as I had already spoken for a million and 200 thousand marks, later that price was 600 thousand marks for the Excelsior Hotel which was renovated and which he had, which he did business with those years of profits. Not to talk about other irregularities. Unfortunately, plus an island in Maloston Bay, etc., etc. I hope it's the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's office has certainly obtained a lot of material, and I hope that these materials have been studied and that the final truth will come out. Because what was done with the Dubrovnik hotels was the robbery of centuries by the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79267	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79268	Mr. Matošić, I did not speak exclusively of hotels in Dubrovnik alone, there are other hotels in the Republic of Croatia. Like the Punta Hotel in Vodice, so that's where you name who was robbing it. Furthermore, I was talking about a number of other privatisations, mainly about the privatisation of the INA in which both your party and your leader participated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79269	Neither was the correction of the allegations nor was the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79270	Article 209, sir, I forgot to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79271	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. She's gone. Final review. And if there were more corrections, Mr. Representative Goran Maric, go ahead. ... Why are you giving confusing signals? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79272	Only three sentences for final review. This report of the Supervisory Board should not be observed in the context of the failure of the Supervisory Board of the previous compositions and the previous 13 years. Only how hard the Supervisory Board has made efforts in this report shows that no data in this form has been in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We had to select, collect, analyze and place everything. It was a huge effort and that is why this is more valuable, it is a more valuable report because in this form we could not find any information in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. But I agree that since the 1990s, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has been managed in a more efficient and rational way by Croatia today would not be in such a crisis. And that most managers in state-owned companies have contributed negatively to much of it. They were the longest and most incompetent. Therefore, the responsibility was high at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which did not replace such managers and did not determine their business plans, and should have been replaced after the failure of business plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79273	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-07-0.u79274	We are going to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's work report for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010. Carrier of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2010 is accepted. Let's please get involved and vote on the report. The result? This report was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
