ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74685	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today's theme is the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2010. The Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the EU Fundamental Rights Agency. I would like to remind you that this topic, therefore, is Croatia's membership in the Agency, before the Croatian Parliament now for the second time. Namely, the reason for this procedure was the provisions of the Law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Croatia and the European Communities, which we also asked the Croatian Parliament for the purpose of making this decision in June 2009 and received a preliminary positive opinion on the acceptability of Croatia's participation in the Agency. In this way, according to the law, the special supervisory role of the Croatian Parliament as the highest legislative body on decisions taken under the Stabilisation and Association Council has been achieved. Given that this is the first decision of the Stabilisation and Association Council to pass such a procedure, it is my pleasure that, at the time when Parliament first considered the possibility of participating in the Agency, it has made it possible to finalise the whole procedure. I would also like to point out that this initiative was given strong support from all parliamentary deputies who participated in the debate. So far, we can divide the implementation of the accession process into the membership of the Agency into 3 procedural stages. In November 2007, the European Commission called on Croatia to show interest in its participation in the Agency's work. Croatia subsequently expressed that interest in February 2008. In February 2009, the Stabilisation and Association Council submitted a draft decision and the government also adopted a Decision in October 2009 adopting Croatia's participation in the Agency. In May 2010, the Council decision adopted today by law and in accordance with its provisions on 1 July 2010 was adopted in Brussels. A few words about the Agency itself. I would draw attention to the fact that she was the EU's newer institution, created in 2007 by the transformation of the European Centre for Rastism and Xenophobia, whose member was Croatia as an observer. The Agency was established by Council Regulation 168 of 2007 establishing a Fundamental Rights Agency setting out its objectives, areas of activity and tasks. The main objective of the Agency is to provide professional assistance and support to relevant institutions and competent authorities of the Union and Member States in implementing the Union acquis in connection with fundamental rights. The framework of action of the Agency shall be determined by a multiannual working framework. It is adopted for a period of 5 years which, following a proposal from the European Commission, is adopted by the Council of the EU after consulting the European Parliament. The Agency’s tasks are laid down in Article 4. The Regulations include, inter alia, the collection, processing and publication of objective, reliable and comparable information on the development of fundamental rights in the EU, the development of methods and standards for improving the quality and comparability of data at EU level, the implementation and promotion of scientific research and surveys, the preparation and publication of conclusions and opinions for EU institutions and Member States on the implementation of Union law, the promotion of dialogue with civil society organisations and a number of other issues. On this occasion, I would particularly like to emphasise that the Agency does not make a binding decision and is not authorised to examine whether the Member State has failed to fulfil the obligations set out in the contract. adopts a legal norm contrary to European law nor deals with the legality of Union acts. Therefore, even in Croatia, there will be no monitoring of compliance with the EU's obligations nor will it have jurisdiction over individual violations of human rights. I would also point to the very content of the decision we're confirming today. It regulates Croatia's status as observers and the obligations created for us on the basis of the Agency's mission. I note that the observation process is related to our candidate country status, which will improve to full membership in the Agency by joining Croatia. Croatia is obliged to pay the membership fee and the appointment of persons on the Management Board. Professors have already been nominated. Ksenija Turkovic from the Faculty of Law and her deputy, Snježana Vasiljevic, is also a scientific novelist at the Faculty of Law and liaison officer Ms Tatjana Vlasic from the Office for Human Rights. The decision defines the status of the Agency in the Republic of Croatia and the privileges and immunities of staff when working in Croatia as well as the possibility of hiring Croatian citizens. The following Croatia has already assumed its obligations by appointing those persons and participation in membership, and the Agency has already opened the possibility of seconding the Agency for Croatian Citizens. Compared to the membership fees set for the first three years at 180,000 euros a year and for the next two in the amount of 205,000 euros, I would like to inform you that it is to a greater extent, i.e. the percentage of funding from IPA funds, which is not burdened with the state budget. Following the maturity of the membership fee, Croatia paid 13 000 500 euros for its half-year membership in 2010 based on 15 per cent participation as a amount of 36,000 euros or 20 per cent membership fee for 2011. For the third year of membership, the percentage will be 40%, while participation in membership for a further two years has not yet been decided. Let me say a few words about possible benefits from membership in the Agency for Croatia. This primarily supports the harmonisation of human rights rules with the acquis of the European Union. Also teaching on the observation status of Croatia in the former European Centre for racism and xenophobia, and in particular in the context of our membership in the Council of Europe as well as the overall negotiating process for membership in the European Union, participation in the Agency is a confirmation of Croatia's continuity in the preservation and improvement of human rights standards. Along with appointed representatives in the Agency, Croatia will also professionally contribute to the Agency's work to combat human rights violations and strengthen their protection. However, perhaps the most important point is that, following Croatia's accession to the European Union, Croatian institutions will seek full engagement in its work, so the partnership that we are building during the pre-accession period is crucial for building institutional links with the Agency as well as for mutual transfer of experience. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, following these above arguments, I propose to the Croatian Parliament that the Act on Confirmation of Decision No 1 from 2010. The Stabilisation and Association Council, between the European Union and Croatia on Croatia's participation as observers in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74686	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74687	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Decision No 1 through 2010 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. By adopting this Act, in accordance with the Croatian Constitution, this Decision will be confirmed as an international contract which will make it part of the domestic law of the Republic of Croatia, and given the nature of that decision and the fact that this Decision makes Croatia subject to certain obligations, both monetary and membership fees, and thus to confer certain privileges on that agency and the employees of the Agency, as is already common and that this is already the status of agencies and members of agencies in the territory of Croatia. This is also logical because, starting from the fact that in 1997, the European Council established the importance of participating in the Agency's work and for the candidate countries, as strengthening and speeding up the accession strategy, this is another call to the Republic of Croatia as a candidate for this trail. This is also a logical continuation that Croatia accepts an invitation to participate in the work of this agency in the status of observers, as Croatia has already had observer status at the European Centre for the Monitoring of Rasism and Xenophobia, and this Agency, which was founded in 2007, is actually a continuation or transformed Center for the Control of Rasism and Xenophobia. Therefore, immediately after its establishment as we heard from the State Secretary, immediately after the establishment of the Agency, Croatia received a call for interest, it expressed that interest, already once in accordance with the procedure provided for by the Law on the Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we discussed it here at the Assembly, we gave full support and a positive opinion for Croatia's membership in this Agency, and therefore today it is expected that this Law will be supported by most or all of the representatives in this Croatian Parliament because this is a continuation of the procedure already initiated by the positive opinion of the Croatian Parliament. So, this Decision regulates the status of the Republic of Croatia in the Agency, it is now confirmed as observer status, of course, as we heard after Croatia's accession to EU membership, this engagement will be complete, so membership with full voting rights. Today is a right with the right to debate, but without the right to vote. It is also established in accordance with this Decision establishing the Agency, which can be dealt with in the field, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia, so human rights to the extent that it belongs to the implementation of European Union law and in which it is necessary to comply with the law of the European Union and therefore, as we have heard, the Agency collects and compares comparative data, ensures their comparability, conducts scientific research and, as a result, submits reports and recommendations but, of course, does not give it the competence to assess whether human rights are injured or not or is harmonised. So, it's not her job, it's her job first and foremost research and data collection and comparison. As regards the obligations for Croatia, they are as I said the payment of the membership fee, as set out in the addendum to this decision. For Croatia, however, the amount is set, given that membership is co-financed in a larger procedure in the early years through the pre-accession assistance programme, that amount will be only 15% for the first year, and for the second year 20% of the amounts for which the funds in the state budget have already been secured and paid in accordance with the decision that entered into force on 1 July 2009. So, as we have heard about the benefits that Croatia will receive from joining this agency, it is, above all, helpful in harmonising our laws with the acquis, but I would say, and it is extremely important that we become active participants in the debates and discussing the problem of human rights in the area within Europe. We will participate in these discussions, contribute to scientific research and thus be at the source of information and data that will be used to assess and install them into our internal legislation in order to bring it fully in line with the EU acquis. Here, because of all of this, because the Croatian Parliament has already given a positive opinion in the procedure before, we feel that we should and we will support the adoption of this law as the end of the initial accession process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74688	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74689	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS-HSU club will support the bill before us. In the opening statement, we have to say that the Secretary of State gave us a lot more information than we had in writing, and I thank him for that because we just wanted to ask a series of questions about it, but there are a few more questions left. In short, let me just say that this decision by colleagues and colleagues came into force on 1 July 2010, so in a few days it will be a year. This agency is very important to us because it supports institutions not only of the EU but also Member States in the exercise of fundamental rights and surely Croatia has something to learn and what it clearly gets from the agency in every sense. This decision is further seen as having to be confirmed by other international agreements, and we are doing so today. What might still have to be said is that the funds that we give given that we have pre-accession funds that will cover a part of the costs in the first years may seem to be of little importance, but they are significant, in particular they will be growing and greater participation on our part. And surely it is necessary for the government to know about the existence of that agency that we see the decision came into force a full year ago, but we parliamentarians, and I believe that colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest, probably 95% of us didn't know that this decision came into force last year. I believe that the government organisations did not know about it either, I believe that many academic institutions did not know about it, and it seems to me that we should make good use of this agency, not only because we are participating with significant funds, but otherwise its role and the possibility that at least at these times Croatia can and should be very helpful. We have three more questions for Mr. Secretary of State. You've answered in part, but I'm asking you to do it one more time and maybe a little bit wider. Article 2 of the Decision "The Agency in Croatia can address the issue of fundamental rights". This word solve, let us know exactly if this may be an insufficient translation of the original text. So to resolve the issue of fundamental rights. What are they solving? Furthermore, in Article 4 on the same page 7, we have a question regarding the observer or his deputy and national liaison officer. The conditions that they must meet are mentioned. I have searched on page EUHR 4 at the end of the material, but only the conditions are mentioned there, but we do not know what are the conditions that these people must meet. This is what the people of several organizations asked us, so please explain it to us. You mentioned some names of people who were already going to board meetings and who was appointed liaison officer but we are interested in these conditions. Furthermore, one proposal to the Bureau of Parliament. In fact, here we see that almost a year has passed since this decision came into effect, we are only now getting this material on the bench. When it comes to the European affairs of our colleagues and colleagues, we will have to act significantly differently from tomorrow, not from tomorrow, but from the day after tomorrow. When Brussels proposes individual documents, it will regularly consult with national parliaments. We'll get the material, we seem to have a secretary of state for about 10 weeks if I'm not wrong to react, by making amendments, by supplementing certain texts, or by giving the green light. Therefore, we must react much faster. I propose that we immediately start our colleagues and colleagues to agree that we will turn our Committee on European Integration into a Committee on European Affairs, to define the content and manner of its work, but colleagues and colleagues, all other committees will be parent committees and on European issues, if agricultural, economic or other matters are at stake. Therefore, other committees must react significantly differently, significantly more professionally and more responsibly to protect Croatia's interests tomorrow when we are EU members. So I'm really asking the President of the Parliament to put this matter on the presidency. We need to establish better and sustainable communication with the Government when it comes to European affairs, we need to reorganise parliamentary committees, i.e. working bodies, and we need to react much faster when it comes to European affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74690	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74691	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No. 1 from 2010, therefore an apparent delay in the start of the Croatian Parliament or of the Government, I do not know exactly how it is responsible as my predecessor said in his speech. Therefore, the Stabilisation and Association Council Decision between the EU and Croatia on Croatia's participation as observers in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. So, given that there is a delay, it seems to me that a little bit of a text on forgiveness is the first one to say wars of 180 thousand kuna or half-breeding to 90 thousand euros in the first year, so this year 2010, so that's part of 2011, can be interpreted as a specific alibi for this slowness, I don't know who, the Croatian Government or anyone else. A total of three years should require funds to implement this law or to participate as an observer in the Agency's work should be about 600,000 euros, but given this 90,000-euro deal or forgiveness, it means about 500 000 euros or half a million euros for three years. So 2010, '11. and '12. Now the Agency itself for the Monitoring of Human Rights, therefore its activity and all that is written in connection with the Agency's activities, is slightly again being questioned by Article 2 which states that the Agency in Croatia can address issues related to fundamental rights under Article 3. etc., so I wonder how many of us in our judiciary or who regulates fundamental rights have sovereignty and how much of it is really if this is how it's written literally, how threatened it is that our judiciary that we still have to say has its sovereignty, its independence, etc., by the actions of this Agency and its decisions, and if so is the solutions that it can make. Furthermore, what are the fundamental rights if citizens who also have their rights, fundamental rights to be informed, are informed. Like what? On 14 February 2011, when asked about the translation, the official translation of the Lisbon Agreement which is the Constitution or the new Constitution or the consolidated text of the Constitution of the European Union on the question of the Civil Association, the answer is that the Croatian Parliament does not own the official translation of the Lisbon Agreement. The Croatian Parliament does not own an official translation of the Lisbon Agreement. This is the Information Service of the Croatian Assembly. On the question of civil society associations in connection with the explanation of the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on the accession of the European Union, the Office for Public Relations has been decided, the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on the accession of the European Union are not publicly available documents and that is what we keep saying. We're talking information, informing citizens what's waiting for us, waiting for each individual, waiting for peasants, students, pensioners, workers. Now, if this agency is called what it's called, which is fundamental rights, I think it's a fundamental right and a right to information. If we were a member of an observation agency, would that agency also have to deal with such non-information and such explanations as are addressed in writing to civil society organisations, were these fundamental rights injured? The right to information, the right to inform fateful, which awaits us in the European Union. So, I link this inclusion of Croatia in the Agency for Fundamental Rights as an observer, so only as an observer, and then ultimately these fundamental rights are these two documents that can be substantiated or delivered to you, and you have them most likely, in which it clearly states that Croatian citizens do not have the right neither the association nor the parliamentary representatives, have no right to know about the negotiating positions of not the European Union but the Republic of Croatia, our country, our country. Therefore, they do not have the right to know about the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on the accession of the European Union and says these are not publicly available documents. When it's gonna be, you don't know. As a result, this debate, which is being held in one thing that is already a little bit familiar, is therefore too late in view of the dates I was talking about, in 2010, 2011, in fact, and the direction that has actually taken everything and some special assessment on behalf of the club would neither be given nor spoken out for nor against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74692	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74693	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So at the very beginning of my presentation, I will say that this law absolutely needs to be supported, and its provisions should be analysed in the first place by giving an answer to two questions. The first question is, in fact, what this agency is essentially, and of course, the second and very important question is the role of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the agency itself, and we can say in two separate periods of time. Therefore, during this pre-accession period and of course during the period when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. Therefore, the agency itself is one of the most important in my opinion institutions or essential institutions in the context of the functioning of the European Union dealing with the ultimate line of protection of human rights or the problem of human rights but in one specific way. It was thus created in 2007 by the transformation of another institution, which is the European Centre for the Control of Rasism and Xenophobia. Therefore, its specific role, and this has already been said in particular in the opening statement, is in the first place, so I stress, first and foremost, the support to the institutions of the European Union and the Member States in the exercise of fundamental rights. I think it is very important to point out that the agency itself does not make binding decisions and does not exercise direct supervision when it comes to any human rights issue. Its specific and very important role, therefore, is based on the harmonisation in the first order of the legislation of all members of the European Union, so that they treat either directly or indirectly to human rights. But not just that. Therefore, it also deals with the collection and comparative comparison of collected data from the area. It then develops reports on human rights conditions and the implementation of different research and studies, all of course in terms of improving human rights standards, i.e. raising human rights protection to the highest possible level. And of course it is to praise that it is necessary to support the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia I would say in this project in this first stage as an observer. However, as observers, the role of our people to be representatives of the agency in the work of the agency is also important. So they will be at the table during the debate, when making decisions. At this first stage, they will not directly participate in decision-making. But quite certainly in the agency's work yes. So the law itself should absolutely be supported. This is one of the essential institutions of the European Union in which the Republic of Croatia will, therefore, be involved in this pre-accession phase of the observer. But by completing the pre-accession negotiations and by including the Republic of Croatia in the European Union certainly in terms of the implementation of full legal membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the additional role of our members in terms of the functioning of the agency itself, and in that sense, they will gain in full, in full. In my opinion, we should reject all the objections we have had to hear that the accession and ratification of this decision, that it was too late, that the government did not respond in time, given the processes themselves when it comes to ratifying such decisions and everything he said at the very beginning and the secretary of state. I think it was reacting in the final line within those deadlines that are common for the procedure of ratification of such international documents and that it is precisely this time to pass this law, to ratify this decision in order to ensure that this segment of protection of human rights, especially in chapter 23, which, in terms of negotiations and the conclusion of that negotiating cycle, is really nearing the end. So in this sense, once again absolute support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74694	Mr. Doric, replica. Excuse me. Replica one Mr. Doric. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74695	My colleague Tomljanovic, I did not use the term that the government was too late. True, I said it's been a year and I've given exactly a comparison to what's waiting for us tomorrow where we'll have to, in a very short time and as Parliament and as board members, react when it comes to European affairs, so please accept this proposal from the HNS Club, HSU in a positive context in order to help us really be more efficient from tomorrow onward.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74696	Thank you. Answer Mr. Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74697	Dear fellow, this remark was not addressed to you or to your presentation on behalf of the club, but to the exposure of some others who literally criticized the government in one way or another in an inappropriate way, in a way that it was too late, that it was all too late. However, in that regard, I would point out that the decision that we are confirming today has been passed by law on 25 May 2010 since the ratification process began. You and I both know how this process of ratification of international documents is going, how long and how long it takes for Parliament to come to a decision like this that needs to be fulfilled so that this decision can come to the National Parlamannet for ratification. And I agree with your thoughts that in the new working conditions as Parliament, especially as regards European legislation or adoption and adoption of laws or other regulations by the European Union, we will have to organise ourselves in another way, that we will have to put our working bodies, which you have talked about, in a completely different way, in order for the flow or in order to respond in terms of discussing and accepting these European documents as our national documents to be better, more effective, and that we could actually respond to the problems put forward as Parliament in the future in the best possible way possible. And in that sense, I absolutely support you. But I do not support those exposures based on this ratification, the confirmation of this decision has practically brought down undue criticism of the government's work because it is a process of ratification of a particular international document and it is necessary to pass both on the one hand and on the other. Therefore, both by the Republic of Croatia, or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by the European institutions, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74698	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74699	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No 1/2010 of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, with the final proposal for a law. Therefore, the law is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure, which is, in view of the nature of the confirmation of international contracts, a common practice, since it is already a signed act, and at this stage of the procedure, no amendments or additions to its text can be made. As with all international contracts, by confirming this decision in the Croatian Parliament, its provisions will form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights itself, it is as set out in February 2007 with the task of supporting the institutions of the European Union, but also Member States, relating to the implementation of fundamental rights. Since Croatia has so far had an observation status at the European Centre for the Control of Racism and Xenophobia, which has actually been transformed into the relevant agency, a procedure has been launched for Croatia's participation as an observer in the work of the agency, in order to obtain support in the process of further harmonising the rules in the field of fundamental rights, with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, in order to establish the status of observers of the Republic of Croatia, certain obligations of the Republic of Croatia have been established, so the Agency is primarily concerned with the issue of fundamental rights necessary for the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union, where it collects data, conducts research, prepares studies, reports, recommendations, etc. Croatia is obliged to pay membership fees for participation in the Agency's work in the way provided for in the add-on to the decision, by co-financing from the pre-accession assistance instruments programme in precisely established proportions, as explained in the materials, and the State Secretary also spoke of it. Croatia also appoints two persons in the Agency's board of directors who can participate equally in its work, but of course for now without the right to vote. Names of one national liaison officer, privileges are also approved, immunity to agency staff, equal to those of European communities, the possibility of hiring Croatian citizens is also arranged. Here is, therefore, the following, and since participation in the Agency is a further confirmation of the continuity and contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the preservation and improvement of standards in the field of human rights, I will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74700	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74701	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us, I would say an important law, confirming the decision to take part in the participation of the Republic of Croatia as an observer in the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. What is important to highlight Croatia already as an observer from the European Center for racism and... until this decision is confirmed on observers for the Agency for Fundamental Human Rights, but fulfils its international and legal obligations, above all as an observer, not in the formal legal form that will be fulfilled, have when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, but as an observer from the centre to confirm the decision on this agency, Croatia is an observer and agency, i.e. before the centre, and today the Agency is already overseeing and assisting the institutions of the Republic of Croatia with regard to legislation when it comes to fundamental human rights and matter which is the competence of this Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in those times that have passed, it may sound formally strange to pass a year, but most importantly, the content, the fundamental objective of this law, the fundamental competence of this agency is already being exercised in Croatia, it is certainly a lot of work in all bodies from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to the ministries, to the Croatian Parliament in this road, the final path of Croatia's entry into the European Union, so it is important that this agency, or our body in Croatia, already has its obligations and obligations towards fundamental human rights, according to legislation in this area is being implemented, so that it may need to be accelerated and it will certainly be different when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, but... Big big big deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And perhaps you would mention something, yesterday at the debate on the Committee on Justice we had a report that will soon arrive here at a plenary session, so it was said in vain that we formally only harmonised the laws and met the requirements of the European Union, and in Croatia nothing was moved, but it did not mean formal compliance with the conditions, i.e. the harmonisation of the legislation that we were already on that path, that we had become a democratic or modern European state. It was such an ugly message to be responded to, but it is certain that all of this, in these years from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to this conclusion of negotiations in all chapters, is that this is regardless of the political signs, that a huge job has been done, a great effort, and that we as a state have fulfilled perhaps one of the most difficult ways from candidates for membership in the European Union, to the very entry itself, which is certainly something that should be motivated rather than demotive for Croatia. And this agency, one body of its own kind of supervision, when we become a full member, is also today, so when we talk about whether Croatia needs monitoring or supervision of certain areas after the conclusion of the negotiations, as well as in this area of fundamental human rights, this agency is certainly one of those bodies, so that no additional weights should be put on Croatia, but should be given to the Croatian government, and to the Croatian Parliament, and to all representatives and representatives, regardless of the parties, to breathe full lungs and that what is good in Croatia is really good and commendable, and that all those efforts, all those difficult jobs that have been done in all bodies in the Republic of Croatia, including here in the Croatian Assembly, should be respected, that it should be given simple praise for what is good. This agency, regardless of its costs, is certainly one of the important bodies in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that it will not take much time for us to join the European Union soon to become a full member of this agency, and we are all on the same path together and I believe that we have all done everything we can to make Croatia better, and I support this law and it is certain that we should support all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74702	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74703	Thank you very much. Well, I actually think that there is no one in this House who will raise his hand against this law, and certainly it is to praise that step we have made towards all forms, if you want the institutional organisation of the European Union, even at this stage as observers, and hopefully as soon as possible and as full members, especially when it comes to this type of agency that deals with fundamental human rights, and we know that fundamental human rights should actually be built into the foundation of every true democracy. But unlike my colleagues, I wouldn't stay at this only formal level. I am more interested in the content level in a certain way. She's pretty much in on this. So, yes, we will become part of that agency, or we will become part of the EU. However, I am interested in when we will really bridge the gap in the level of fundamental human rights in the Republic of Croatia and not say throughout the EU, but in a large number of EU countries. I think there's a big, big deal ahead of us, with all the work that's been done. I can give you an example. I'm going to give you an example of Mr. Markovic who said that, on the air, a homophobic statement in the sense that a homosexual would never play in a football club, or team he runs. The Croatian judiciary responds to that, because fundamental human rights have been violated, it borders even with a hate speech that I do not go further, so the Croatian judiciary reacts to this, although ineligible, a liberating verdict. At the same time, the same Europe that we seek to punish, therefore, the football Federation punishes Mr Markovic with 10 thousand euros or I don't know how many penalties. In fact, in my opinion, the message should have been this: human rights cannot be reached. So you cannot reach a certain level of human rights and become members of all possible European associations dealing with protection, improvement and human rights questioning and then say it over. In fact, human rights I like to compare them, and that's what some theorists used to do, that it's about like flowers. So you can't grow a flower and stop taking care of it. You have to worry all the time. Well, you see, I'm afraid here that we don't actually think when we bring the legislation together, when we become members of certain associations, that we can then stop. What is very important to me, that we have become an associated member of this Agency and that is what we hope to become very soon in a year and a half, two days become full members is the following: there is one tendency in one part of the new EU member states to reduce the level of fundamental human rights from the one with which they joined the EU. And that must be our message. We must therefore, after joining the EU, so if you want to through this Agency too, show that we, our efforts, have not done our organisational steps in order to enter and meet some criteria of the EU, but rather that we have done them for ourselves and our own citizens. Because it's only in that part that we're gonna do the right job. I also think it's inadmissible to say the board, the parent board actually think that it was the parent board yesterday, not to accept a report from the vehicular attorney. Why? Because as far as I've been through and read that report there are facts. You know, I don't like all the facts that are listed there, either, but they're facts. And now you don't accept one fact, so that we have a situation in the judiciary that we have, that we still have the politicization of a certain part of state institutions and systems that we shouldn't have, etc., that we have a violation of human rights that you know what it means? That means we're not ready to address these human rights. And that's why, and that's why we have to overcome some political differences here, so if you want ideologically, when it comes to human rights. Here, I think this is actually a good way to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss these problems that we are facing and I believe that people who are now as observers in this Agency, and tomorrow as active members, will actually not follow the EU's efforts to preserve and raise human rights levels, but will actually predominate and that we, or those members of that Agency, will actually impose and establish new standards in human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74704	Thank you. One correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said that yesterday the home working body rejected the Attorney General's report. That's incorrect. The Justice Committee discussed the Report of the Ombudsman and did not agree only with part of the report, which is full and stringy, and in its essence is that part, which is very much the political evaluations and the incorrect political assessments that are contrary to the actual situation in the first part of that report that you are calling for. So, there's one whole segment in the report, and we're going to have a chance to talk about it, which is actually nothing but general political evaluations and that don't come out of the analysis of those facts that, in the first part of that report, the attorney general gave or stated in his report. I think it was necessary to fix it. In addition, it was not about the parent work of the body and the Committee on Justice that discussed the report by the Advocate General within the scope of his work, namely the part relating to the functioning and operation of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74706	We also have replicas. Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have well noticed that, in recent times, there are both in the EU and in some EU countries, I would say amendments or restrictions to legislation relating to fundamental human rights. I wonder how the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights reacted and how it assessed the deportation of thousands of Roma in Romania last year seems to have been. Furthermore, when you spoke about Croatian legislation, you pointed out that it should be regulated, that it should be Croatian, that it should be in some way and specific and that this legislation, Croatian legislation and laws on fundamental human rights are implemented. In Article 2 of this proposal, I reiterate that it says that the Agency in Croatia can address issues related to fundamental human rights, etc. Is that a question I repeat, is that an incursion in saying the sovereign Croatian legislation and implementing the Law on Fundamental Rights in the Republic of Croatia? As far as the Agency's right goes, as far as this EU Agency's right is concerned, how does it describe solving problems related to fundamental human rights?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74708	Mr. Lucin's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74709	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic is the fact that when you come to one community, you must give up part of your independence, as well as marriage. You must create a compromise. But if you respect each other and respect each other, then there's no problem, but if you try to impose your will on someone, subdue them, and then that's where the problems come in. It's not really a question for me. I'm also in my presentation, and you mentioned this story about the deportation of the Roma, I was actually talking about it. Well, actually, what some in the European Union are doing, that we don't have to do it, that we actually have to accept the fact and that we're doing the step, that when it comes to not only fundamental human rights but generally about all rights, we have to do it for ourselves, and if we take a stand like that and if we go from there, then we've done a lot of work. If we say, look, they're closing the borders there for some refugees, let's do it, it's not an approach, and it can't be an argument to us. We have to take a positive part of the story to argue. So, I don't think I actually see this problem as you see it, I actually see a different problem, and that is that, regardless of the European Union, we have to do everything that the level of fundamental human rights must never be referred to, it must only go up, and if it is a starting point and a principle, then I believe that we will not be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74710	Thank you and replica Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74711	My colleague Lucin I fully agree with your presentation and are interesting queries and dilemmas that you have placed on the table. I think here today we should agree and coordinate our thinking. This Agency, in my opinion, is a mechanism of permanent control of respect for human rights, so permanent supervision. If so, then you'll understand why we were outside our club half an hour ago looking for answers to some questions. We don't care who sits on the board of directors if they are political criteria for the selection of these people, we disagree, if they are professional, professional and other criteria, then we agree. We do not know how the chosen person is a liaison officer, and here we agree that he can exclusively be a person of the profession who will effectively, correctly protect human rights. That's why we're looking today in the context of this ratification sequence of clarifications. What particularly bothers us, and we have warned it countless times, we often mention various reports and this Agency will write reports every year, what we do not know who will receive these reports, whether we in the Assembly will have the opportunity to discuss these reports, respond to those reports or get someone in the government, put them in a drawer and end the story. Therefore, the Agency must indeed be an effective, mechanism, permanent surveillance and we have a series of questions so far like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74712	Mr. Shime Luchin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74713	Actually, we all have those questions. I'd actually like to see this story develop further. But I could somehow go beyond that if I were to be sure that at the level of Croatia, or that the Office of Human Rights and all those institutions that exist today in Croatia will actually do their job well. But I think there's going to be a chance to talk about it. We simply have to face one fact that political criteria in every segment of life must die, must be excluded. You see it's just like on this committee yesterday, to go out on the street now and ask any passerby about the choice of judges, one part in Croatia chosen by political criteria, the answer that you will get 100%. But you see the board bothers it, even some judges, some of these judges received during the coalition government, those before there, I don't know it, but it's a fact, we all know it. We're gonna go back in the second half of '90. We're gonna talk names? I don't think there's any need, but for me it's unacceptable, I wouldn't open the subject, but for me, it's unacceptable that one of the most important committees of this House, this House, I would call it that, would not accept the report of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74714	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74715	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for your interesting contribution to the debate on the draft law on the agenda. A brief comment on the aspect of the procedure. So today we are in the process of confirming this Decision. In accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I said at the beginning of my presentation that the procedure for the adoption of this Decision, so the Stabilisation and Association Council Decision already began in 2009 when the debate was held in this House and when the Croatian Parliament gave a preliminary positive opinion on Croatia's participation in the Agency. Therefore, I would just like to underline that the Law on the Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has put emphasis on the previous and supervisory role of the Croatian Parliament in the decision-making process under the bodies provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, above all, on the Council. This is the first decision of such a character that has passed this process and therefore we are at the final stage today. As regards the timeframe, you saw in the decision that it entered into force on 1 July 2010, followed technical and legal procedures both on the European Union and on the part of Croatia, so we came to the confirmation stage at this time today. When it comes to the question of the honourable representative, Mr Doric, who rightly asked the question, which means that the Agency in Croatia can resolve issues, I would nevertheless quote the whole first paragraph of Article 2 because then it is fully understood that sentence, so "the Agency in Croatia can address issues related to fundamental rights under Article 3(1). Regulation No 168 to the extent necessary for its gradual alignment with Community law." Article 3 of the Regulation states that the Agency will carry out its tasks with a view to meeting the objectives set out in Article 2 within the competence of the Community when it comes to fundamental rights, and Article 2 makes it very clear that the aim of the Agency is to be able to provide relevant institutions, bodies and offices of the Community and its Member States in the exercise of Community law, assistance and expertise. I think it's very important to bear in mind that the agency's main task is to assist and expertise. The Agency does not have the form of supervision that we have been used to or particularly in the context of the current discussions on the conclusion of Chapter 23. Its fundamental role is assistance and expertise. When it comes to persons mentioned in my opening statement appointed by the Republic of Croatia as members of the Management Board or liaison officers, you have asked the question of what qualifications they should have in order to be on that Management Board, so Article 12 of the Regulation states that a person nominated by a Member State or an observer State such as this in this particular case of the Republic of Croatia at this stage may appoint a person who has high duties and who is independent, therefore who is independent and has experience in the field of human rights or other public affairs. We chose Professor Ksenija Turkovic, who is a professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, who, among other things, is a vice-president for international relations at the University of Zagreb, a person who, with his curricula, is certainly independent and has the right expertise to participate in the work of the Management Board in a representative way and not an appropriate but independent way to represent the Republic. When it comes to persons who are liaison officers, Article 4(2) says: "Croatia proposes a government official as a national liaison officer under the conditions laid down in Article 8(1) of the Regulation". Article 8 therefore states very precisely that the Member State or the observer state in this particular case Croatia shall appoint a government official as the national liaison officer whose task is to be the main contact point for the Agency in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with logic and jurisdiction, we chose Mrs Vlasic, who is one of the employees of the Office for Human Rights. We believe that this is an appropriate choice and that the Office for Human Rights under its many responsibilities relating to fundamental rights in the Republic of Croatia is the most appropriate institution to be the focal point of contact with the Agency. What other topics have been mentioned here, I absolutely agree with you that the supervisory role of the Croatian Parliament and the relevant committees, in particular the Committee on European Integration, will be crucial. As we know, the Lisbon Treaty has given new powers to national parliaments, there is much earlier involvement of the supervision of national parliaments in legislative proposals that go into EU-level procedures. I believe that the Croatian Parliament has already taken up a whole series of activities, and I would particularly refer to the Twinning project that was held with Hungary where experts from the Hungarian Parliament held a whole series of meetings and I would say appropriate education to the Croatian Parliament services how to put the Assembly in the right way in the decision-making process at EU level, of course under membership conditions. There was also a question of transparency in the negotiation process, negotiating positions, that it is certainly not the primary topic of our debate today. You all know very well that decisions were made a few years ago in the context of the work of the National Committee, the National Committee sitting among other things in the large majority of representatives of most parties in the Croatian Parliament, had the opportunity to see the negotiating documentation. And as we have said on several occasions after the conclusion of the negotiations with the Croatian public, the Croatian Parliament will, of course, be made available negotiating documents, so that, in the period following the end of the negotiations, until the end of the signing of the treaty and finally its ratification, both in the Croatian Parliament and in the referendum, the public will have full insight into the content of the objected chapters. Thank you very much. That's it, and I suggest that the law be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74716	We have one correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74717	I'm sorry, Mr. President and Mr. Plenkovic, that I have to intervene with the correction before the very end of your exposure. In fact, you said that the National Committee has insight into what is being negotiated, but several times here, the chairman of the National Committee of Mrs Vesna Pusic reiterated when I asked her about the agriculture chapter that she had no information about the Croatian position in the agriculture chapter. That can be confirmed by all the MPs here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74718	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Thank you. As we agreed, we're going to vote on the points of the agenda, so eventually we're going to have this point of whether or not it's about. So we're going to vote. Please, let's get ready. The final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Decision No. 1/2010. The Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 818. The proposal was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming Decision No. 1/2010. The Stabilisation and Association Councils between the EU and Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill of confirmation. What's the score? This proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 102 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74721	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2010, in accordance with Article 16(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act of Defence, and Article 8 of the same law. In line with the conclusion of the 6th session of the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament, in drawing up this report, the proposals and remarks presented by the representatives in the debate on the 2009 Annual Report with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations for the same year, as well as in other discussions at the Croatian Parliament and mainly at the meetings of the Committee on Defence of the Croatian Parliament on Armed Forces, Integration in NATO and the EU and the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international peace operations. This report describes to the Croatian Parliament but also to the entire Croatian public how the defence system works, which it develops, how it fulfils its social role and has the means to which it is entrusted. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, the report contains information that also fills its function in carrying out democratic surveillance over the Armed Forces, democratic, civil and parliamentary surveillance. The Republic of Croatia is located in an area where economic and political transition is still apparent. However, the entire region generally takes on the characteristics of stability and security because of the primarily strong European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations of all countries in the region. This does not exclude, however, the need to develop the relevant defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia as a factor which in the long term represents the basis of security for both our national security and regional security. Over the past year, the defence system's market activities have been aimed at achieving and maintaining the necessary level of readiness to carry out missions and tasks, achieving adequate interoperability with allies, as well as at developing capabilities in the function of action in NATO and European Union defence mechanisms. The main efforts in line with defence policy lawyers focused on participation in international operations, support for civilian institutions and on the implementation of national military exercises and exercises under international defence and military cooperation. In addition, there is a continuation of the plan, training of units and commands and their equipment within the scope of the defence budget. The commitment of the Republic of Croatia through a demanding contribution to peace building, security and stability worldwide is evident through participation in international operations in which the Republic of Croatia is profiled as reliable federal who can meet the security challenges of today. In the past year, the Republic of Croatia extended its participation in international operations by actively participating in 11 international operations of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union with an average of 4430 members and members after rotation. Armed Forces members and members successfully carry out all tasks in the international environment under extremely demanding conditions, indicating a high level of their preparation and training. The main area of our engagement, the most complex and demanding mission, is the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. The Republic of Croatia also participated in the creation of a new... NATO concept and its adoption at the Lisbon summit. [[You don't understand.]] The current concept reflects Croatia's views on further development and the role of the alliance, in particular the re-affirmation of the principle of collective defence as well as the continuation of NATO's open door policies for all states, particularly what is important to us, for the countries of Southeast Europe. The defence system has made a significant and visible contribution to the involvement of the Republic of Croatia in the common security and defence policy of the European Union through joint training and declaration of forces for the European Union's battle group under the leadership of Sweden, so-called the Nordic Combat Group, as well as the participation and support of European Union operations in different ways. The Republic of Croatia participated with two medium-sized MI 171 AŠ transport helicopters, in fact, by the end of this month and with 20 members of its Armed Forces in the combat group led by Sweden, the Nordic Defence Group, which is available to the European Union in the event of the need for stabilisation operations or certain forms of engagement. The defence system, as in recent years, has provided strong support to civil institutions through participation in preventing the removal of the consequences of natural disasters such as forest fires and floods, logistics support, air transport of life-threatening persons, especially from the island, emergency transport of transplant bodies, search and rescue bodies on land and at sea, and assistance in the construction of municipal infrastructure. By participating in the assistance of civil institutions of members and members of the Armed Forces, they have made an exceptional contribution to the rescue of human lives, to the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters and major disasters. A multi-year commitment to the inclusion of Croatian economic capacities in the development of the capabilities of the Armed Forces resulted in the successful realization of a number of equipment and modernisation projects such as production, integration, fighting armored vehicles of type Patria, the development and production of domestic assault rifles, new covert uniforms, military boots, military helmets, combat meals and other equipment adapted to tasks in the most demanding conditions in which members and members of the Armed Forces carry out their duties. Of course, all parts of the equipment and weapons that are introduced into the Armed Forces also meet the most possible criteria that exist in the NATO alliance. Successful participation in numerous military exercises improved interoperability with allies, raised levels of training and reached and certified the appropriate level of readiness of individuals and troops. In recent years, the defence system has been functioning in the context of a reduced defence budget, contributing to stabilisation efforts, exiting the recession and strengthening the country's overall economic profile, as well as taking on its responsibilities in reducing public spending. The main challenges of reducing the defence budget were maintaining the functionality of existing resources and continuing the equipment, modernisation and transformation of the Armed Forces. In this respect, certain equipment and modernisation projects had to be comparable. In such circumstances, requirements for the possession of those defence circumstances that the Republic of Croatia will be able to respond to current and future security threats conditioned the review of existing plans, previous plans and methods of functioning of the defence system, which led to the 2010 process of the ageing defence rule. The old defence project will focus the future development of the armed system in line with the needs and possibilities of the Republic of Croatia and provide guidance for the development of a new long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, which is one document brought by the Croatian Parliament. The long-term development plan adopted by the Croatian Parliament will provide a projection of the development of defence capabilities needed to deal with modern threats within the framework of the available defence budget. The readiness of the defence system to implement the human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces described in the report you have before you shows that the defence system of the Republic of Croatia is successfully responding to the tasks that have been put before it, particularly those concerning the concrete use of forces, both in support of civil institutions and in international operations. Overall, the defence system focused on the implementation of the assigned tasks and the development of the capabilities needed for national and Allied defence. Armed forces are successfully adapting to NATO membership with adjustments that impose the day-to-day functioning of the system, of course under reduced resources. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nine main parts of the report show the state and readiness of the defence system in 2010 and the key developments in the coming period. The main management processes in the defence system are also presented, as well as a demonstration of the implementation of defence preparations during 2010 with the framework content of the previous years' report being retained. Taking into account the responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament in the defence system, the report also shows a review of the implementation of the long-term development plan in the previous year. The achievements described in more detail in this report confirm further progress of the Republic of Croatia in the process of transforming the Armed Forces into a relatively small but modernly equipped and efficient force capable of carrying out the assigned tasks, all national tasks as well as those of the Allied. I think that from this report and from the overall situation in the defence system, we can conclude that the Republic of Croatia has, above all, been reliably integrated into the NATO system and has, of course, contributed significantly and contributed to the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74722	Thank you. The defense committee? The Committee on Gender Equality? The chairman of the board of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 48th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Annual Report on Defence System's preparedness, the implementation of staff policy in the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Introductory representatives of the motions presented the report, the internal structure of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, and it was presented that within the Ministry of Defence they were taking on the readiness of the defence system and the integration of NATO and the European Union. An increase in participation in international operations has also been reported, and the process of drawing up a set of new strategic documents. The report contains a specific chapter dedicated to gender equality which speaks of a focus towards achieving full gender equality in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, and mentions the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from Security Council Resolution 1325 Women, Peace and Security. In the debate that followed, the report was assessed as high-quality. For years, the Committee on Gender Equality has been regularly discussing reports, and significant progress has been seen in the preparation of the report, particularly in the consistent use of natively sensitive language. The National Action Plan for the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325 also stressed that women, peace and security are women. Members and members of the board expressed confidence that new strategic defence documents would include a particular chapter that would highlight the role of women in the defence system. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of staff policy in the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74724	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74725	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So right away, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support and accept this report on the readiness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 with the 2010 State of Defence Preparations Report. And I will begin to commend both the Ministry and the Government as proposings, and this is evident in the drafting of this Report, also taking into account the proposals and remarks made at the debates in the Croatian Parliament and the meetings of the 2010 Committee on Armed Forces, on integration into NATO and the European Union, and on participation in international peace operations. The report shows the state and readiness of the defence system in 2010, as well as key developments in the upcoming period. The main management processes in the defence system as well as the presentation of the implementation of defence preparations during 2010, as well as the review of the implementation of the long-term development plan in the previous year, are also presented. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, we all know, have recently celebrated their 20th anniversary, and during this 20-year period, indeed, the Croatian Army has grown from defenders of the attacked Homeland to modern Armed Forces. The Republic of Croatia has become a country of peace-strengtheners from the recipient country. Although this is what we heard in the immediate environment of the Republic of Croatia, the economic and political transition of the whole region is still taking over in principle the characteristics of stability and security due to the expressed European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations. This does not exclude, however, the need to develop appropriate defence capabilities as a factor that represents the basis of security in the long term. Over the past year, the focus of defence system activities has been on achieving and maintaining the necessary level of readiness to carry out tasks, achieving adequate interoperability with allies and developing capabilities in the function of NATO and European Union defence mechanisms. The main efforts in line with defence policy provisions are aimed at participating in international operations, supporting civilian institutions, and at carrying out national, military exercises and exercises within the framework of international military cooperation. In addition, planned filling, training of troops and commanders and their equipment within the scope of the defence budget was continued. In the past year, the Republic of Croatia has actively participated in 11 international operations under the leadership of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union we heard an average of 430 members of the Armed Forces participated after one rotation. Armed Forces members and members successfully carried out all tasks in the international environment under extremely demanding conditions, indicating a high level of their preparation and training. The defence system has made a very significant and visible contribution to the involvement of the Republic of Croatia in the common security policy of the European Union, through joint training, by declaring forces for the European Union combat group under the leadership of Sweden as well as by participating and supporting European Union operations in different modes. As in recent years, the defence system has provided extensive support to civil institutions by participating in preventing and eliminating the consequences of natural disasters, forest fires and floods, logistics support, air transport of life-threatening persons, emergency translation of transplant bodies, search, rescue on land and at sea, and assistance in the construction of municipal infrastructure. I would especially like to emphasise and commend the members of the Armed Forces who participated in the fire protection activities. It really was a big activity. It should be mentioned that the total took part in the closing down of 75 fires, that over 910 hours of flight to aircraft had been achieved, that 5922 flights had been released and that 21828 tonnes of water had been thrown out, which in some ways I would say and thus clearly shows how intense the participation was and how much contribution in fact and these forces for success in the fight against fires. By participating in the assistance of both civilian institutions and members of the Armed Forces, they have made an exceptional contribution to the rescue of human lives, to the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of the elemental disasters and accidents of larger scales. With this extensive and successful civil military cooperation, the defence system also confirmed its social role and status this year. And another activity I would especially point out. The secretary of state also spoke about this, which is the politics of both the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence, which seeks to make the most of the Croatian economy in developing the capabilities of the Armed Forces, i.e. in the equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces. And success is visible, first of all, it should be mentioned that in numerous projects of equipment and modernization of armed forces, Croatian companies participate, that especially for the prominent production and integration of combat armored vehicles, combat armored vehicles are fully, with the complete transfer of technology were first produced in Đura Đakovic, so in Croatia, and it became practically one possible export product. It is also important to mention the development and production of a domestic assault rifle, as well as a high, technologically high-developed product. Also, new covered uniforms that have already become an export product, as well as military boots, military helmets, combat meals and other equipment adapted to tasks in the most demanding conditions in which members and members of the armed forces solve their tasks. With successful participation in a number of military exercises, it was precisely this good that I would say quality cooperation and training with our allies, raise the level of training, and reach and certified the appropriate level of readiness both individuals and troops. It is also important to highlight, but also to congratulate the members and members of the armed forces and the Ministry of Defence, as well as the Government, which in the last few years, despite the recession and despite the fact that the defence system is functioning in the context of reduced defence budget, which is why the main activities, the main tasks, have been carried out and carried out with maximum good, correct and in fact precisely in that extent and in that quality that we both normal and Croatian citizens expect and expect from the armed forces. The readiness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy, the overall situation in the armed forces described in this report show that the defence system of the Republic of Croatia was successfully responding to the tasks ahead of it, mainly those concerning the concrete use of forces, both in support of civil institutions and international operations, and therefore I repeat once more the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74726	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74727	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The report on the state of the defence system is one of those topics around which a consensus has always been reached in the Croatian Parliament, the report has mostly been adopted unanimously so far. Of course, this time, at least as far as the SDP Club is concerned, in this latest report, in this most likely the latest report on this topic in this meeting of the Croatian SDP Club will therefore support this report. On my first presentation on this subject three years ago, comparing the report that we received with previous reports, I claimed then in 2008 that the situation in the military was somewhat better and that the report was somewhat worse than that in 2007. Now I'm going to change that score a little bit, compared to last year, on last year's report, the situation in the military is about the same, but the report is something better, which is commendable. I believe that this has also contributed to the fact that a special parliamentary Defence Committee has been established in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and that, as well as the officials of the Ministry of Defence, but also the MPs have had the opportunity to discuss more, not politically, but indeed in the mutual benefit of the military, but also in the institution of civil surveillance, and that this cooperation has led to a report that is better than it has been so far. At the very beginning of the report, there is a summary of a sentence that in a nice way, to say the gentle way of describing the biggest problem of the defence system, I will quote it as the main challenge to the defence system was a significant reduction in the defence budget. So those problems that plague the Croatian state, i.e. that are primarily tormenting the Croatian government, lack of money, torture and defence systems. To be specific, therefore, the 2010 defence budget was carried out in the amount of 4.74 billion kuna, the planned budget for 2011 is 5.02 billion kuna, the execution is likely to be slightly less, as the Ministry of Finance is likely to want to re-scheduled from time to time, amounting to around 1.45% of gross social product. What is desirable is NATO's size for the defence budget, when viewed from the gross social product is 2%, in particular it would be about 6.7, 6.8, 6.9 billion kuna, which means that we have 2.3 billion kuna to that standard. This is, therefore, with that amount would probably be both the report and the atmosphere and certainly some other circumstances related to the military and the defence system were different, when looking at the share that should go towards the pay, the equipment and maintenance, so again some other desirable size is that a third of the budget goes to pay, a third to maintenance, and a third to the equipment, at this point for the 2011 budget the planned amount is 57% for salaries and just over 40% for material expenditures. When it is put into figures, it is seen that for respecting this standard, there should be 4.58 billion kuna for material expenditures, and that around 2 billion kuna is planned in the current budget. So again, I'm talking about how the situation would be ideal if two and a half billion kuna were missing somewhere. Of course, the Government, Parliament, political parties decide on priorities, and certainly this information says that at this point in the Republic of Croatia, some other priorities are more important than they were during the Homeland War, and that civil authorities decide that some other things will be intended for taxpayers' money. It is in any case the right of the Croatian Government, it is the right of the Croatian Parliament, and it is in some way, however bad for the defence system and for the readiness of the armed forces that we see, however, at the level which therefore ensures the completion of constitutional tasks, it is also good because it means that the state is not yet in such a war danger as it was in the last century, at the end of the last century. This report was made in nine chapters, so I'm going to look back on some of those chapters. First, the security environment is a risk threat. When we talk about the security environment, it is clear that our neighbours, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, are still in transition, that as far as BiH is concerned, there is one permanent review of the solution in the Dayton Agreement, where the representatives of all three nations find good and bad sides where the smallest people mostly find the most bad ones. That in the Republic of Serbia, therefore, at least according to public opinion polls, the strongest party of former co-worker Mr. Seselj Tomislav Nikolic is a party of former co-workers, which at the start of Croatian citizens is causing one fearsome and uneasy. And it is certain that this would be one pressure for the public and for civil institutions to pay more attention to the military and military issues. Also, when we talk about threats and risks, we should note that the Republic of Croatia as a member of NATO and this is the first report for the year in which all 365 days we were a member of the NATO alliance that the Republic of Croatia participates in a large number of international operations, that our contribution is significant in terms of the number of soldiers, compared to the number of soldiers is above average than some other countries have. But it was accepted in the Croatian political public as some kind of debt return to those countries that sent their soldiers to Croatia during the Homeland War to stop the war, to preserve the truce and to ultimately strengthen the Croatian military during the truce and be able to free the state. The second part of the report is about the readiness of the defence system. I believe, therefore, that the willingness of the defence system is not only about the military but also about all other segments that make up the defence system at a satisfactory level, that it fulfils its constitutional obligations and that it is therefore the task of each political leadership to at least maintain defence readiness at that level, and of course depending on the possibilities to increase it. The third part refers to the implementation of the projects. It's perfectly safe, and I'm going to quote a sentence from the report again, so in 2010, it was again delayed to make a decision to replace fighter planes. So, it's one of the most expensive defence projects that is expected to be decided by the political leadership and not only this political leadership, so this is the case that has been present for the last 10 years, which has been bridged, so time has been bought by the MIG remonting, and therefore political leadership really needs to be made by consensus, because it is therefore a long-term decision, about what to do with the fleet of fighter aircraft in the future. Of course, if the defence budget is at 1.4% of GDP then our options will be less, and if it is at 2%, then it will be higher. And, of course, if there is GDP growth, it will also be possible to do something more there. As anywhere else, so in this system literally she's worth as much money as money, as much music. As for activities in the NATO integration process, they are, therefore, we have been accepted as a full member of NATO's alliance, we carry out our tasks, we are an esteemed state in the NATO alliance, regardless of what we are therefore among the last members to enter. It means that we meet certain political and other criteria that the NATO Alliance is looking for. I hope that we will soon close these criteria and formally with the EU and that Croatia will therefore be exactly what all political parties and all political groups have declared, so the Euro-Atlantic future, Euro-Atlantic integration. One sentence in Part Five of the report, therefore, on inter-resorial cooperation. A lot of times in the media with misunderstanding talk about, for example, former military properties, former military apartments and some of the things called the Ministry of Defence, although it does not essentially fall under the basic activities of the Morh. And I think that in that part of inter-resorship cooperation, especially with the government's bodies, with the Asset Management Agency, it should finally and clearly be said that it has nothing or should have nothing to do with the military, that the military and the ministry are dealing with military issues, that it is not the Real estate brokerage agency or the management of the housing fund. Official dwellings and personnel apartments are one thing, but apartments in which former employees of the ministry live or in which the relatives of former employees of the ministry live, or I'm not going to go to this political part of the former officials who have received military housing, so it shouldn't be more in the power of the ministry than the government agencies that do the primary tasks. The part that speaks of social position, public relations and soul care in any case is something that the Croatian military can boast because despite the general decline of trust in the institutions, the institution in which Croatian citizens have the most trust. That's certainly good for the soldiers. This has also contributed to the military's efforts in particular to depolitisation, so the political leadership that has made it possible, and it must remain in the future for sure. And now in the last chapter we're talking about the main directions. I would like to point out four main directions in which the defence system, so the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Defence should go. So, first of all, it is still to be recognized as a good, stable, secure and reliable partner to our allies in international operations where, of course, there is always the question of how many people we can give for such international operations, how many international operations we can and should participate and what our foreign policy goals are when we accept participation in an operation or why some participation would refuse. To be even more direct, who we need to like or who we should resent by accepting or refusing. In that sense, the Republic of Croatia must have clear priorities, clear guidelines on who is its ally and, of course, a clear answer to what the Republic of Croatia from that alliance is getting from that participation. Are we still paying back the debt from the '90s, moral debt, or are we just doing it for something that is of interest to the Republic of Croatia? The second objective is to be made available to civilian structures. So one of those reasons why citizens trust the Croatian army. For example, in the case of elemental accidents, protection and rescue, or in some others, support for civilian structures. The fourth is to be an important driver of the Croatian economy, the part of the military industry that remains. That is why it is necessary to have a different availability with taxpayers' resources, where I do not only think about internal but also external factors, because every time they cut the budget or most of the times when they cut the budget is the easiest thing to do in the position of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior because there are obviously no additional votes. As far as Mr Djakic is concerned, it is clear that you will not accept these amendments and how amendments are forbidden to increase or reduce budgets, it is a business form that you and we both know, but you sometimes use it for that purpose, which is legitimate. And the fourth, no less important and most important that both the defence system and the Croatian Army are an important part of democratic Croatia. Democracy in a country is also recognised through the role of armed forces, depoliticalisation, democratic surveillance, the prevention of abuse that Croatia's European integration is certainly the future, the European Union and Europe will also be based on European standards on the Croatian Army, hopefully with a slightly larger budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74728	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, it should be said, and this was pointed out by everyone who spoke on behalf of the clubs that the reports were very good, so I'm joining it because, indeed, from year to year from the Ministry of Defence, we're getting better and more quality reports, and I think that today we can really discuss what happened in a metric way over the past year. It is visible how the defence system works, what it develops and how it fulfils its social role and how it uses the funds, the societies that are entrusted to it. It is evident that in 2010, the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces acted towards the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia in NATO. By joining NATO, we have received a guarantee of collective defense, resulting in a different form in defence preparations. The past year has been marked by increased participation in international operations, adoption and application of doctoral documents, participation in decisions and exercises of the introduction of new equipment, and further rationalisation and savings, conditional on the reduction of the defence budget. Last year, the Republic of Croatia actively participated in 11 UN, NATO and European Union peacekeeping missions and operations, where 430 members of the Armed Forces participated on average after rotation. As our soldiers are doing their best to witness and yesterday the president of the state received recognitions and all praises for the mission, the peace mission in which our forces work in Afghanistan, which is the training of military police and security. So this may be the best recommendation, in which way Croatia responds and how it works in the NATO Alliance. In the past year, positions in the framework of a permanent representation in the organisation of alliances in the military representation have been gradually filled in 12 persons, and in the military policy department two employees, the military representation of the Allied Operation Command has been filled in 5, and in the Alliance for Command 2 positions in NATO's command structure, the Republic of Croatia also has 10 representatives. The position in the Allied Civil-military Cooperation Operation Command is filled with the Croatian officer in the rank of general, and will be exchanged in the same position with the Albanian representative. Another 6 members of our armed forces have been deployed on duty within NATO's command structure. It can be said that the past year has been marked by continuing successful cooperation in international peace operations and missions, and by participating in the training and exercises of members of our armed forces with members of the armed forces of the member states of the Alliance. Thus, the Republic of Croatia increased its international reputation by showing international solidarity. During 2010, defence policy focused on the integration of NATO's structure and on proactive inclusion in defence planning processes and activities. The defence reform effort has been initiated by the process of developing a strategic defence review as well as in recent years and in 2010 there has been an expression of the role of the Armed Forces as a participant in planning and carrying out activities to support civilian institutions, in cases of fire defence, flood defence and other elemental disasters. The readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces shows that the Republic of Croatia has and develops a system of application to the needs of threats and challenges faced in the NATO integration process. The report shows that the defence system adapts to the circumstances of the reduction of the defence budget due to recession by retaining functional and developing capabilities with maximum rationalisation and internal redistribution and reserves. What can be concerned about in some ways is, therefore, the average age of a soldier who moves in the Croatian Army for about 38 years, while in the world is under 30 years, and in some countries, as many as 26 years old, the average age. It's actually talking about lack of flow, we know how much in the past this time the soldiers ended up retired, and I'm afraid, and hopefully that won't happen to us all above the 38-year average end up retired. That would be bad. That is why it is now necessary to plan for the surplus to be taken care of in such a way as to remain in the world of work, so it would be a priority in planning that those people who can still do so so that they do not end up staying in the world of work. As regards the strategic defence review in line with the needs and capabilities of the Republic of Croatia, I should like to give guidance on the development of a new long-term plan and the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, so I think this plan is already working, and otherwise, as far as the report itself is concerned, I would like to commend once again those who delivered it to us on the benches and I will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74730	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during 2010 was marked by the beginning of a strategic defence review, by participating in international peacekeeping missions, and by further developing cooperation within NATO, where Croatia is now a full member and with the EU as part of preparations for full membership. Armed forces of the Republic of Croatia maintain a high level of readiness to carry out the following types of missions, protection of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, defence of the Republic of Croatia and defence of allies. Participation in response operations to crises abroad, participation in measures to build security and trust and support the country's civilian institutions. Control and protection of Croatian airspace and sea territory is also the main task of the Croatian Armed Forces whose execution is not questionable at any time. The capacity and capacity to be built for this task shall be placed in the absence of direct threats in the service of achieving other objectives, national security and other national and social interests. Participation in operations abroad strengthens Croatian alliances and helps maintain the level of readiness of the Armed Forces at the highest level. In 2010, a special emphasis was placed on co-operation with Croatian allies, with members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating in missions under the leadership of the UN, NATO and the EU. Work on building security in the region and beyond continues to be part of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and is the basis for achieving a long-term high level of security. Finally, cooperation with civil institutions to remove and prevent the negative effects of elemental disasters, and in all other situations where the resources of the armed forces are necessary or beneficial for society. Although this is not about military action, it contributes to the overall security and improvement of Croatian citizens. By entering NATO, the security of the Republic of Croatia has been significantly increased, and soon EU accession also includes integration into security structures and international integration, which will further increase Croatia's security rating. Joining NATO and future EU accession, however, does not mean that Croatia should not reflect good relations with neighbouring countries and other countries in the region. On the contrary, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia play an important role in ensuring good bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and achieving cross-border security cooperation that is crucial for reducing and eliminating some unconventional security threats that occur in a modern world such as international organised crime, illegal migration, corruption, terrorism etc. Neighbouring countries and their armed forces do not pose a territorial threat to the Republic of Croatia and therefore the reason for bilateral, multilateral security arrangements to reduce the amount of weapons in the region, increase relations stability, etc. of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Most neighbouring countries that are not yet members of NATO have as a strategic goal a clear desire to join the alliance, and all neighbouring member states are NATO's Partnership for Peace. A tendency for neighbouring countries, in particular BiH and Montenegro to engage in the same integration processes as Croatia in the long term, will result in greater security for Croatia and for the entire region, and therefore the progress towards NATO and EU membership is the external political interest of the Republic of Croatia, which all its institutions, including the armed forces, should continue to promote. Participation in international operations as already mentioned brings numerous benefits to the Republic of Croatia from increasing the readiness of armed forces through the introduction of the most modern techniques and means of war and the opening of new economic ties to strengthening the alliance and increasing Croatia's reputation in the world. During 2010, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in 4 NATO missions, 3 EU missions, and 8 UN missions on three continents. The missions in which Croatia participate are in Kosovo, Cyprus, Golanska visorna, and in Lebanon, Kashmir, Afghanistan, Western Sahara, Liberia, Sudan and the Somalia Sea. In addition to these, the operation within which Croatia and its allies share information on ship movements in the Mediterranean as part of the fight against terrorism, then assist in the training mission in Iraq, and the Peace Mission in BiH. Among the members and members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia outside the country are the most difficult, responsible and most important tasks of those deployed in NATO's ISAF mission in Afghanistan. There is also the largest number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and the next largest one is the Croatian contingent of the Peace Corps at the Golan highlands between Israel and Syria, which numbers about 100 soldiers and officers. Armed forces in 2010 supported civil institutions in the following ways. This means by providing assistance in the case of natural disasters, logistics support, air transport of life-threatening persons, emergency transport of transplant authorities, participation or organisation of search and rescue actions, by providing assistance or assistance in the construction of municipal infrastructure and by supporting the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. By providing assistance from the armed forces in the floods in the June Sava River in September 2010. Sava and Danube have proved absolutely crucial. So armed forces with their people, mechanisms and organization helped build improvised embankments and maintain the existing ones, which employs nearly three thousand people of which about a thousand 200 participated in the field. Traditionally armed forces participated in preparations and activities during the fire season in southern Croatia. Compared to previous years in the 2010 season, there have been fewer emergency situations which confirm that the preparations themselves are very high-quality. In interventions to protect human health, more than 1500 flights were completed and 637 patients were transported urgently. In October and November, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in the clearing of 55 ruins from the time of aggression at Vukovar in the Homeland War and in the restoration of the Vukovar municipal infrastructure. Working in cooperation with civil institutions is key to maintaining a positive perception of the Armed Forces in the Croatian public. Socially useful activities of the Armed Forces, together with increased public relations activities, informing the public about the activities of the Armed Forces, contributes to the satisfaction of the inflow of the people and thus the future willingness of the Armed Forces to remain at the same high level. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are a source of security on which the Croatian state and Croatian citizens can rely in a wide variety of situations, dangers or troubles as well as any other situation where there is no direct threat, but there is a need for capabilities such as the Armed Forces. In addition to contributing to security at home, Armed Forces also increase Croatia's reputation abroad. With their activities outside the country, Croatia contributes to a better tomorrow for other peoples by increasing the number of Croatian friends in the world. The introduction of a new system of armed forces' readiness in accordance with NATO's highest standards, participation in operations using new principles and other activities implemented, planned during 2010, contribute to increasing the readiness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and thus the security of Croatia and its citizens. Continued work to increase the qualitative readiness of the Armed Forces increases the ability of the Republic of Croatia to face all security and other challenges now and in the future, to become a reliable and respectable partner in international relations and to ensure a high level of security for its citizens and for their property. For all these reasons, I will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74732	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, my colleagues, the secretary of state. In my debate, I will look back on only one ninth of the report, entitled "Key direction of development in the next period", for all of us and for the public, I will try to set out the most important, key developments in the next period that arises from this report. The long-term development plan adopted by the Croatian Parliament will provide a projection of the development of defence capabilities. Action within NATO remains an important element in the process of transforming the defence of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia will continue to support a common European security and defence policy. International defence co-operation will focus primarily on NATO, EU and Southeast European countries. Strengthening the management process and responsibility of the defence system will continue. Special attention will be paid to professional staff development, the organisational structure and the numerical size of the Ministry of Defence will be reviewed in order to save some money and give for modernisation. It will continue to promote the Armed Forces and military calls and inform citizens. All listed with the development of the defense system has no absolute connection, only the following. I quote: "The equipment of the Armed Forces is a new incentive for the development of the Croatian economy and opens up the possibility of transfer, advanced technology, the adoption of standards and exports of domestic military equipment. In this respect, cooperation between the defence system and domestic companies will continue according to the model of fighting armored vehicles, domestic assault rifles and other weapons and military equipment." Now I'm asking if we have a navy, a Navy, as part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Whether in the next period, the direction of development will be turned towards the restoration of ships within the Croatian Navy or we will continue to buy aluminum ships from the Finnishs. Here in this report there are five sentences also mentioned in the activities of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia because I remind you that the operations of the Coast Guard have been taken over by the Croatian Navy. As far as I know, the only acquisition of ships for the Croatian Navy was two aluminum from the Finnishs who were built for the North Sea, not the Adriatic. The experts told us about it and never fully identified how much those ships from the Finns cost us. Five different amounts were also mentioned how and under what conditions that one of our shipyards had a job to redecorate that aluminium boat to look like the Adriatic. So, will the Coast Guard be bought at least one fast boat, boat, vessel. There's nothing. What about the air force, will there be nothing in the next period in the modernization of aviation? Airplanes, helicopters, they used to call it airballs if I wasn't wrong. What about them? What about the radar system? A few years ago, the problem of rebuilding the radar system, the location, installation and equipment caused major contusions, today nothing is mentioned here. And in the end, the system of connections, whether there is a need or so many systems of connections within the defence system have been modernised to quote, "In the next period, nothing needs to be developed anymore." Due to the abandonment of both the Navy and the Air Force, the anti-aircraft defenses within the radar system and the system of connections that have obviously been released, whether on purpose or because of the lack of knowledge of what would be described here, I claim that further direction of the development of the Armed Forces is concentrated solely on the infantry, the mainland army and partly. So since there is no word in the report on this, but indeed no word in terms of development, and no one has apostrophe in the introduction either, Mr. Secretary of State, please answer me whether the situation in the Croatian Navy, Croatian Air Force, radar system and the system of connections has led to this level that, in the next period, in these four important segments of defence system readiness, there is no need to develop anything, or perhaps it is true that we leave this part of the job exclusively to NATO and that this part of the Armed Forces Croatia will no longer develop independently. I think this is important information that he has the right to receive answers not only to the Croatian Parliament, but to the Croatian public as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74734	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to commend this wonderful report, which is made up of the quality 116 pages, and it certainly belongs to the ministry. But they have something to talk about because we have one wonderful one and we can tell the European modern army. The mission and the tasks of our Armed Forces is to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't think any citizen in the Republic of Croatia suspects that they can complete that mission at any time for 24 hours, or 365 days a year. With this mission and mission, they have more defenses both in the Republic of Croatia and in the defence of allies, because we are in the NATO alliance. We have the task of participating in operations to respond to the crisis abroad in missions are our UN, NATO and European missions. And it's always when there's a hot spot then it's better to go shut down the hotspot as far away from home as possible, fire to put out somewhere in other people's woods, not in your backyard or in your garden. Our armed forces, except for what they do in their missions, means under the UN flag, under NATO or European service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, serve as soldiers, as experts, and we spoke a few times a few years ago when we sent our boys saying we were sending cannon meat. But it turns out from day to day that we're sending a profession, that we're sending instructors, officers. Here are the months we've made the decision that our generals will go to complete the Command. So from soldiers to officers, officers to generals at the very headquarters and all the missions our girls and our boys work outside the Republic of Croatia are surely to honor all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It was said that the army was expensive, that the army was spending a lot of money. However, members of the Armed Forces other than what it means to work on these missions outside, except that they are always ready to preserve the sky, sea, land, our borders have another task which, as part of their training, engineering units work on the ground and thus help develop units of local self-government, so it can be said that only last year, and in the next few years it has been done hundreds of thousands of miles. But just last year, a 12km circus was restored and a new flood rush was built, not to mention the rabbit dikes around Vukovar, or in Slavonski Brod when it was a huge flood last year that had been made 4,5 km of rabbit dikes. It also means in the recovery of war-damaged areas, meaning areas of special state concern where more of these ruins are standing on that part of our armed forces headed by their beautiful trained warriors, generals working on that part and when you have a flood, an elemental disaster or a fire, and in particular the flood I was present when the army came the people breathing as they were waiting for them, as they were waiting for us as liberators in the Homeland War. In this report, I must say how much we are like the armed system, the armed forces that have progressed. For 20 years in one country, 20 years of equipping an army of the armed system is not exactly a distance of debt, especially when we know that the Homeland War ended 15 years ago, and a peaceful integration after that. And then reading this report on page 17. NATO... Missions in Iraq of Croatian Armed Forces Republic of Croatia means in the composition of the Armed Forces there are 500 rifles,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gifted and trained Croatia there, Croatian young people to protect their homeland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's imagine, 20 years ago, we had hunting rifles, hunting carbines, the cubes we worked in Đura Djakovic in Slavonski Brod. We had 10, 20, 30 different Kalashnikov countries. Today we have this possibility that we can help the troubled people in the war, that we can help and we can give and hope that in the next few years we will fully... put it in the museum and that we will not throw it out, but thanks to this good machine that defended the Republic of Croatia and Croatian soldiers, that we will replace it with our domestic production and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a gun. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this year the new contingents that go outside the Republic of Croatia are no longer going with... They're going with our home rifle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the part. When it comes to fires, I think thank God last year I think that 55% less armed forces were engaged, although 218 members were available because last year there was less fire, or we better prepared the season, or they were simply those rains that last year and in the sixth and seventh months they watered alone, so there was less. But so these guys and girls were always ready to help the peoples on the ground. One thing is certain that the people have great trust. And all those who think the people don't have great confidence in the Armed Forces are they. We are small Armed Forces when it comes to airspace. We got what we got from the plane. We have our helicopters as many as we have, but surely these girls and boys working in that part of the civil sector mean saving lives, transporting patients, transplant bodies, food, cattle evacuation, evacuation of people from the flooded area. And I no longer know what to say about the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia except you are our Dick. When I look at Croatian soldiers today as they are dressed and equipped and as they behave in the streets we can say that is the right thing to do, that is what the Croatian soldier needs and these measures that were for two members, that is, for one water that refused the mission, this mission in Afghanistan, I don't think that anyone who doesn't want to be a member of the Armed Forces has any need to be forced in this direction to be. Today we have certainly a large number of young girls and young men who want to serve a military term, and want to become professionals afterwards, finish school, and professionally it means to engage in military invitations and be soldiers. When it comes to the economy associated with the Armed Forces, we can say today that, that we have made a lot of progress, that we have our export brand, that it is a helmet, that we have our uniforms, and that we have our boots, and that for all conditions, and for the conditions where the mud is, where the snow is, where the rain is, and for the conditions where ours are now, means on the hotspots, that we have our gun that is recognised in the world, our soldiers are equipped with it, that we have our assault rifle, and here is God's thanks from the Djura Djakovic program in Slavonski Brod, the combat vehicle means the Patrius, and surely that the guys in the special vehicles that they gave so much in the Homeland War on the equipment of the Armed Forces, when it was most difficult, and on the first lines, that in better times when we have more meaning of money, we will have one of the vehicles and we can do so much in the same way, we can do the most in terms that we can in terms that we can in terms that we have one of energy and in terms of energy, and in terms of energy, we can be able to be able to make the products in the products, and in terms of energy, and we can be able to make the products, and we can be able to make the products, and we can make the products, and we can make the products in the products in terms of the most, and in terms of the most, we can be able to be able to be able to work to work to make the products in the products in terms of the products, and we can be able to be able to be able to work to work to work to work to make the products in the products, and to work, we can be able to make the products from the most, we can do, we can be able to work, we can do, we can do the products from the products, we can do, we can make the products from the products from the products from the most, we can do in the products from the vehicles, we can do, and we can do in the most, we can make the products from the most, we can make the most, we can, we can make the products from the products from the products from the vehicles, we, we, we, we, we can do, we can do, And in this part we can only say every kuna given to the Armed Forces, God forbid we have 10 billion so that we can put them on, we would certainly return at least one third through the Croatian economy and help Croatian economics to mean they can be competitive, or that they can make these products when it comes to the military component, and that they can mean exporting. Here are all the praises and all the happiness and blessings of God to all our members who are in the Republic of Croatia, and especially those who are outside the Republic of Croatia and defend our flag and defend the honors of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74736	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So here is the annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of staff policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, and we are pleased and happy that this report, as before, did not come directly from the headquarters, but came from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and now finally a certain order has been introduced in the ministry itself and their work, as well as in the headquarters. The readiness of the defence system in the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the forces described in this report shows that the defence system of the Republic of Croatia was successfully responding to the tasks set before it, mainly those concerning the full use of forces, both in support of civil institutions and in international operations. There are several main challenges, but one of them certainly represented the provision of existing resources, and the continuation of the transformation of the Armed Forces under the conditions of the defence budget which was reduced by the economic crisis and which was not adequate to the real needs of the defence system, certainly and had to be much greater than savings, rationalisation, reconstruction and construction, and by looking to save on each step, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia contributed to covering themselves with that budget that was provided to them to carry out all the tasks that had been put before them. The defence system is integrated and contributes to the overall defence capabilities of the alliance, contributes to the development of Allied defence capabilities, as well as to the development of a common security and defence policy of the European Union, is reflected primarily by participation in international operations of NATO and the European Union, for which only praises and congratulations are obtained continuously. Surely such a vessel, which is working together with allies in challenging and dangerous missions, certainly contributes to all the experiences that have been submerged from the Homeland War into the new Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, to new officers, officers, as well as soldiers of surely the experiences they have applied in the Homeland War are one of the basic things that guide them as a goal and guide in all missions and operations they carry out around the world. In addition to cooperation with NATO member states and participation and in the development of a common security and defence policy of the European Union, intensive defence cooperation with countries in the region contributes to the overall foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, transition processes, trust building and security in the region. Surely such cooperation has contributed through all segments, especially through the defence system and the demonstration and demonstration of our strengths and skills, achievements, it is certain that today, almost, the conclusion of negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union. The participation in international operations and various forms of international defence cooperation also acquires the transfer of experience and knowledge necessary for the development of the capacity of organisational progress and the achievement of interoperability with allies, and the Republic of Croatia affirms itself as a credible partner in building security on a regional and global plan. Special attention in the defence system shall be paid to the preparation and safety of forces directly engaged in international operations. These forces have been brought to the level of interoperability capacity that allows for the right, the implementation of assigned tasks. In total, taking into account the defence system, under the circumstances of the reduced defence budget, it focuses on retaining functionality and using available potential in the development function, the capabilities needed for national and Allied defence. Armed forces are successfully adapting to NATO membership, with adjustments that impose the day-to-day functioning of systems under reduced resources. The significant support of the defence system to civil institutions and the population further strengthens and affirms the positive social role of the defence system and the confidence of citizens in the Armed Forces. The complexity and importance of tasks require and strengthen coherent and comprehensive international co-operation. A strategic defence review process has been carried out to analyse the state of defence capabilities, the development and arrangement of the defence system, and the defined new guidelines for the development of the defence system in the coming development. After winning documents, the development of a new long-term development plan of the Armed Forces will be approached, which will continue to focus on the creation of modern, efficient, professional Armed Forces filled with qualified and motivated personnel of quality equipped, trained, supplied, protected and integrated immovable and sustainable flexible and functional and affordable personnel. Through all this, we can see that professionalism is essential, but also the volunteering that has been introduced by abolishing the regular service of the military service certainly has a great echo and a positive goal for which volunteering is defined. I would just add that through this volunteering we should perhaps introduce in Croatian laws that voluntary military service in today's peacetime should certainly be one of the priorities in the employment of the state service as one of the additional stimulants in order for young and girls to volunteer for military service. Such a way would certainly further enable them both will and strength, but also in the state service would certainly be those who went through voluntary training and who would at any moment be willing to be in the function of the defence of the Republic of Croatia at any time as its active reserves or passive reserves. In any case, the system of education carried out through the teaching centre of Petar Zrinski certainly passes through it a series, a large number of officers and officers and officers and certainly makes one true backbone of the young, perfect staff that will certainly be the future of the Croatian Armed Forces which is being educated and we can say that in the Military School through all levels of military education a total of 451 students in 2010 and of that is 410 men, and 41 women also in gender equality certainly means one ratio that goes towards further progress, that women can also be in the function of defence of the Republic, officers and officers of the highest rank. I would like to stress that through the Kadet project as a model of civilian military training, which is trained by candidates and candidates for officers and requires the completion of combat lines and lines of combat support to continue to be successfully implemented in 8 generations and 73 cadets were accepted. 58 men and 15 women. A total of 251 cadets, 203 men and 48 women are attended. This is also what will make up for sure in the renewal and preparedness of the Armed Forces in the future, as well as the performance of the tasks that are in the missions and activities together with NATO forces, a safe, quality, successful and educated future, and we can say that in all the peace operations that are being carried out where our forces are engaged, they have certainly only arrived at praise, and the Croatian Parliament through the democratic people of the Armed Forces will certainly continue to monitor their development, progress as well as the improvement and complete equipment and weapons essential. We are aware that there are needs for our full or renewal of the Air Force as well as for the Navy, but according to the possibilities of the state budget, this will certainly be resolved in the future. I just want to say a few more things about praise. So the generals who were visiting for sure and who followed our officers and officers and members and soldiers who were on missions must have said clearly, and it is evident from this report that General McCaul praised the Croatian engagement in the ISAF operation so far as was part of the Croatian contingent's monitoring teams and engagements in the KFOR operation in Kosovo. The general also praised the Republic of Croatia's efforts to boost regional co-operation and stressed that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO is now contributing to stability throughout the region. We see from the report that Croatia has made further efforts to make military co-operation with countries with which it was at war, such as Montenegro and Serbia. The best co-operation is certainly with Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as with Montenegro continues to develop as it does with Macedonia. And surely the Republic of Croatia will, through its Armed Forces, continue to be a partner in stability and security in this part of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74738	Thank you. At 11.54, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Ms. Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, each of us puts an accent on this report. I'm going to say something later on about what I've chosen, but actually I'd like to say at the very beginning that I'm very glad that I'm no longer speaking with any sign of a question or skepticism about democratic and civilian surveillance. And I remember years when these were prime issues, rather than talking more about the economic opportunities that are being opened through the projects. I see that colleagues have mentioned opportunities to work through missions, but there are also advantages and agencies from NMSA to NC3A, and it would also not be bad to say that these people who work on missions, who go on missions, are significantly opening the door to the economy that often companies who are not working in Croatia come behind them. However, there were some gaps in one period. I remember when our soldiers were praised in Afghanistan until then by many companies from other countries with a significantly smaller number of soldiers and even minor commendations received some important jobs. We were a little late here, but come on, and that's the part that's slowly catching up. I'd like to talk about gender equality, actually. It is clear that the Constitution and the legal provisions regulate employment on equal terms, that the percentage, already seen by colleagues, on a steady rise, to organise specific education programmes, courses to strengthen gender awareness, or sexual awareness, but I would like to draw attention to a part that is closely related to the position of women because it is a profession. And that's the promotion of women in the Armed Forces. It is no longer the time to talk only about the percentage and it is no longer the time to be satisfied only with the fact that discrimination is mostly gone or is in one statistics that we will no longer make great noise. But we need to make noises and ask questions about what is right to women's progress. If the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces employs 3,170 women, or almost 16% of the total number of armed forces, it is 12.6%, so 52% of women are in the administrative part of the MORH, which is not surprising because it is about such a similar percentage anywhere in the administration but not in the high positions. In the leadership and command duties, women are 7.6%, which is an extremely low percentage, and in the structure of senior officers is 12.3%. That's almost double. I talked to them telling me that they were mostly majors and colonels and we finally have women of war schools, it seems to me that last year was the first woman that was a good positive shift. However, the fact is that when we know we have too many high ranks, that we have many generals, no woman has been able to obtain such an act. I keep it very interesting, especially that they are educated, valuable, responsible, I have met them in missions where they show at least equal abilities as male colleagues, show one great social sensitivity, sensitivity to the population, however, one of them at least progresses to that act, so I am actually interested in what you do in the Ministry of Defence that women would have such an opportunity, why Croatia could not show that it has made a significant step, and I am firmly convinced that there are women who have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74740	Thank you. Final review at the defence ministry Pierre Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74741	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In this brief final address, thanks to the debate, thanks for the words of support, but also thanks for the suggestions and remarks, I think that in the presentations of several MPs was announced, and in this document we have outlined it as a goal that every debate we have in the Assembly contributes to the quality of the next report and definitely this whole debate, which I am most grateful for on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, will be included in our work on the report in this current year which will come to debate next year. With the aim of continuing to increase the quality of this report and on the basis of ensuring full civilian parliamentary supervision of the armed forces and of the defence system. I think the debate is really apostrophe of all the emphasis that we've gotten on the report and that really enters what might be called a serious defense system effort, on my part maybe to give them some more light. I'm sure there's been talk of people, human resources, and definitely in what we're bringing to an end now, that's... defending one central point of everything that we do is people. People are what make up the defence system, what the Armed Forces do, means everything they need and in this sense thanks to constructive remarks that go on to track that human material to be treated even better, to introduce even more perfect forms of staff procurement, to public promotions which make the service in the Armed Forces attractive to young people, to be treated through the entire progress system in the best possible way that this career development system in the most advanced way, as well as to ensure the greatest possible concern in the separation of personnel and in the preparation of members of the Armed Forces who, at the end of their service in the Armed Forces or are going to retire or in most cases, continue to live as constructive parts of the largest society. This is definitely what if we see where there is one point where we recognize the need for continuous and working with the greatest possible effort and in terms of energy being invested and in terms of the broadest social dialogue, and in terms of financial resources, these are certainly people in every aspect of working with people. The economy is also highlighted in this report as well as in the presentations of several MPs for which I thank again. The importance of the defence system as a system that must firstly prove on its part the responsibility in the use of public resources entrusted to us and through the engagement of these resources contributes to the national economy, I think that the defence system, the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces are in a unique position to promote military industry by real targeted projects, which is one of the most important foundations of the national economy in each country. I think that on this plan is much done, there are a number of respectable defences... in the Republic of Croatia can appear new and we definitely recognize our role in one close work with them, in equipping and modernising the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia which always comes as the necessary reference for any placement on international markets. In this sense, I remind you that several months ago we had the first such type of large international conference on defence industry and the exhibition of equipment and military weapons in Split ASDA which will be, which will turn into a regular two-year event in the Republic of Croatia, which is also one of our efforts to contribute to the economy as much as possible. It is also indicated by me, which is something that we have the idea of leadership in the defence system and the armed forces consensus on these issues throughout the country's political spectrum, materialised through MPs and through the Parliament, the political parties, I think that this is definitely about one area that requires the support of all socio-political factors and the building of consensus throughout the political spectrum is about how the international position of the Republic of Croatia is so national security of the Republic of Croatia. Equally an extremely important topic concerning people, investments in people, human treatment and... regarding gender equality, a subject that is repeatedly highlighted and a topic that we are trying to present in a more competent way in this very report which, on our part, reflects what we are doing in the defence system, which is the adoption of the most advanced models of relations, male-female relations within organisations in general, within the defence system and especially within the armed forces, there are certain specificities, but I think that this is just like one activity that is in some way crisis, people are exposed to specific forms of stress, require specific training and still work on things that require exceptional responsibility and attention. I think that this system lives with society, all the gender equality criteria that are being conducted in society, all the elements of zero tolerance towards forms of discrimination, gender violence, sexual violence, I think they are their reflection in what we are applying in the armed forces and in the defence system as a whole, so that, in this respect, indeed in the system of armed forces and the Ministry of Defence, the government absolutely zero tolerances according to any indication of the forms of discrimination and inadequate treatment not only in terms of formal equal treatment but in terms of any form which can be recognised and which has any relevance including what was also mentioned, and this is about progressing on the proper proportional share of members and employees in the defence and armed forces system that these figures and that these proportions are more than ever more than the general trends in terms. I think as a system, we recognize the fact that there is a huge potential in society, especially in a woman's part of society that has not traditionally been prone to such professions. However, this potential is fully recognised from the point of view of improving the efficiency of the system by the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, so that this potential in terms of contributing to all that the Ministry of Defence is doing is definitely one of our priorities. So the percentages and figures that we now have as far as we're concerned are going to be made maximum progress to make these numbers as much as possible, to make the best use of this potential, and also to be adequately treated throughout the career by members of the armed forces with a tendency for officers to take ever more and more positions as they progress through the system to make it particularly recognised. So what is mentioned in one question is definitely seen in one near future, and we recognize the specific individuals who, by their previous work, are by their behavior, reputation and ultimate instance of meeting all the formal conditions needed for the highest acts, are probably getting very close to it. And here's to finally mention maybe one of these illustrations of that trend. Just for the next school year in War School, which is the highest form of military education in a country as well as with us, for the first time there will be two officers, two colonels, between 10, 11, 12 top candidates. This is also about candidates for further progress and the highest acts that the system recognises as such. At the same time, it may also be one note that at this time there are 18 officers and officers in international peace operations, which is about 400, 450. By keeping some of them extremely sensitive and important. Let's just say again as one illustration, our officer, Lieutenant of the battleship, otherwise educated at the U.S. Naval Academy, is currently operating at the headquarters of Operation Atalanta, who surmounts traffic in front of the coasts of Somalia in the Gulf of Aden, and she is in charge of she's an analyst in the Planning Department. So it's an extremely sensitive function. I think that just as all members of all the armed forces operating in international operations have been recognized as highly appreciated, I think that the members of the armed forces have definitely and internationally affirmed what you have clearly spoken of, that just through the action in international peace operations they have clearly affirmed as the exceptional potential of the proven potential of our defence system. As for the very issues of development that were raised about the Navy and aviation. I mean, if I'm not wrong on the page. 58 of this report was further elaborated as regards the development of capacity at sea, land and air during the last year to which this report relates. One additional note that just in the process of strategic... defence that we are bringing to an end that will result in a formal document, these issues are deeply touched. And in them, just to illustrate, it is definitely about the need to build new ships, especially for the Coast Guard, meaning especially dedicated ships both coastal and off-shore, which would strengthen the function of the Coast Guard, which is one of the functions of the Navy. So definitely our plan is in line with the resources available, so over time in a longer term looking at this concrete process and the document looks towards 2020 means in this 10-year period we definitely see the strengthening of coast guard functions through procedures, through staff and through technical means, firstly through the construction of coastal and off-shore ships, according to Croatian design in Croatian shipyards with possible international cooperation that may be needed at the level of equipment, construction and financing. However, there would also be an additional aspect of support for the Croatian economy, especially in such a sensitive area as shipyards. The air force in the absolute Croatian sky will be protected and supervised in one way or another as NATO members. Right now, he's being monitored by our resources, our defence capabilities through the MiG 21 squadron, who did the task during their visit to St. Father like you had a chance to see. So right now that our system of aircraft itself and especially the radar systems of first-class radar systems that we have integrated and that are part of a wider NATO anti-aircraft defense system, they perform that function. As far as aircraft themselves are concerned, they are able to perform this function by 2013, existing aircraft, after which they have these technological capabilities stopped. And during that period, we have a certain period of time that between a series of options that are available to us, which are offered, which we are considering in depth through all parameters including our national needs, action in NATO, the state of the region, traditions, human potentials and, of course, the resource available to us, through this whole series of parameters, we are kind of dragging the options that are available to us. So this decision-making process for the final solution is going on right now. However, I say with full seriousness and with the aim of ensuring national security to the full extent that the final solution will be applied on this plan. Right now it may be a little premature to say, but a series of options are on the table. Looking at the perspective means in this perspective which moment we are thinking about projections, in some vision of the defence system, it's 2020. These are meanings in some way long-term frameworks in which we are thinking about some solutions, I say that in one way or another it will be respectable and sufficient for the needs of our national security and for the purpose of performing the functions that come from the need for NATO membership and membership in the EU. Here, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'd stop there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74742	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74743	We move to the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2010. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the draft parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 is accepted, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Please include and vote on the proposal to accept the annual report. The result? It's like this, for 95, most votes, so one abstention, and two against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74744	We move to the next item - The report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) from 1 October 2009 to 31 August 2010 is based on point 3. Decisions concerning the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan submitted this report. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the defence ministry Pierre Simunovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74745	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In a way, as an addendum to this previous debate on annual preparedness, personal policy, defence policy for the previous year, this report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) may also be related to the period from 1 October 2009 to 31 August 2010. So it's the period within which our 14th and 15th national contingent was deployed in Afghanistan. So for the illustration, this moment is being moved to the 17th, and it is now being prepared in full is the 18th rotation that is moving to Afghanistan in September with 330 members and members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. With a new rotation in September, the number rises to 350 according to the Croatian Parliament's approval. In a report on this previous period of engagement in Afghanistan, I might draw attention to several trends which are also trends that have proved to be irrelevant trends for our current current engagement, as well as our assessment of engagement in some foreseeable future as regards what we are doing as a system, how what is the situation in Afghanistan is, what are the needs of the operation and what are the prospects for its successful completion. Our absolute priority in the engagement in Afghanistan I say it is reflected in this report that is before you, is the security of our forces means ensuring that procedures, training, equipment, modes of action, the type of activities that are dealt with in Afghanistan and that geographical deployment itself is provided with the highest possible level of risk avoidance. However, it is quite clear that the risks in Afghanistan are significant, and no one hides the risks, but it is clear, I believe, and why we are in Afghanistan as part of our obligations as part of the international system for countering threats to international security and peace, the threats arising from Afghanistan have been through international terrorism either through the spilling of dangerous instability in the region, which in the extreme distance could have consequences for both the widest international security and the suppression of some trends of the reputation of organised crime through the cultivation and smuggling of heroin that the international market provides with some 90% of heroin at this point in the world, which is also the evil that affects us. So for this whole spectrum of reasons, we are participating in Afghanistan, which is, of course, said to include this report, which means, along with ensuring the highest level of security for our forces. What is also happening in parallel with this effort is that they carry out their mission in the best possible way by proving credibility for both us as states and us as defense systems. This means, on the one hand, their safety, on the other hand, the effectiveness of the implementation of the mission. The mission is what the military dictionary says is the mission of the world, so the implementation of this mission is an absolute priority and I think that according to what they are doing now, as our members and members of international peace missions have so far acted, especially in this most sensitive, most complex and possibly most dangerous, Afghanistan, it proves that we have proved ourselves through efficiency, and at the same time the fact that we did not have and hope that we will not have critical situations in terms of some possible victims in Afghanistan also prove the success of efforts to ensure their safety in the area of the operation. This particular operation is also understood by us as a special factor in the development of defence capabilities that we spoke of during the previous debate and also the development of interoperability with NATO forces, and all for the one part means the implementation of the mission entrusted to us in Afghanistan, but on the other hand, by rotating forces through such one operation we also generate the most capable forces in any military sense for the purposes of our national needs whatever they are. So in some ways not only are these forces capable in themselves but they are interoperable, so they are capable of fully effective and fully integrated with the most advanced Armed Forces of other countries. During this period, the engagement of our forces in Operation ISAF has also further strengthened the international position of the Republic of Croatia. Just one illustration, perhaps unknown, may not have been sufficiently talked about, between some 48 or perhaps at this time even more countries that contribute to ISAF operations in Afghanistan, means these are not just NATO members but are still a number of other countries of the type Sweden, Finland, Australia, New Zealand, meaning a series of countries that participate in all aspects of the operations in Afghanistan. Croatia is based on complex coefficients on the quality of the contribution scale, where each soldier is not measured as much as it is important, in which way it participates in how sensitive part of the operation, Croatia is the 11th country, and this results from the fact that for some time we have been presented and concretely to the Defence Committee on several occasions and the Croatian Parliament, NATO is the overall focus of NATO's strategy in Afghanistan, and so our national is the development of self-sustaining Afghan abilities. So, through mentors and instructors, coaches, trainers of the most diverse military specialties of our meaning of the present contingent are more than half that kind of ability. So it's not about classic military troops. There are those. The names of the pedestrian company that was stationed in Mazaret Sharif. But most of the other contributions are just highly specialized teams for training Afghan helicopter-to-school security forces, the military police we're taking to Afghanistan, and which recently took its first group of Afghan students to accept what very few countries actually have right now, and these are mostly the largest countries that run such schools in Afghanistan. These are countries of the United States, France, Germany and Croatia that run the military police school. So, a gender school which is an exceptional recognition of our abilities and also the most direct contribution of a foreign country such as Croatia's stabilisation and progress in another country like Afghanistan. So, we don't give troops that would do business instead of Afghans, which is their responsibility and their country, but we help them train themselves in this fundamental function. I think in this report that stands before you this very philosophy, that logic, that strategy is clearly indicated. A continuous shift of emphasis on that mission called otherwise... So this one aspect of ISAP is exactly the training mission that we put our emphasis on. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And finally, this report shows the complexity of the situation in Afghanistan. I think you yourself are witnessing everyday events and crisis events. In Afghanistan, the situation is complex, the situation is tense. String, however, what is most important, I think a number of trends point to the positive consequences of the engagement so far. What, where the greatest effort needs to be made right now, is precisely by NATO and by all of us in which we are involved in maintaining and a positive dynamic that should not be threatened by, say, any premature withdrawal or some measures that would undermine the achievements we have achieved so far. So, what we share with NATO and our friends is the determination to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan to a final solution, a final solution that would allow the self-sustainability of Afghan structures, states, central authorities, regional authorities, local authorities, military and police. And, of course, the establishment of what is extremely important is the permanent partnership of all of us NATO and all countries individually with Afghanistan on which the Republic of Croatia also implements bilateral measures to strengthen relations with the Afghan state with its instruments. Here, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'd stop there.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74746	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74747	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The opportunities in Afghanistan have deteriorated rapidly over the past year as information and reports testify. All those targets set by the international mission in Afghanistan not only by military but by humanitarian means, but also by political question. The military component of the action in Afghanistan is being held thanks to major forces, large multinational forces in which the Republic of Croatia is increasingly taking part. The decision of the Croatian Assembly of Contingent in Afghanistan as part of the ISAP mission was raised with a little less than 3 hundred members during the period covered by this report first to 330 and soon to 350. Unfortunately, the military component did not contain the Taliban rebel forces in Afghanistan, and these forces continue to control a significant part of Afghanistan's territory. The world's most modern military force served by thousands and thousands of soldiers from all over the country fail to solve and achieve military goals. Political goals, above all, the overthrow of the Taliban's radical regime, were achieved, but nothing else, unfortunately, was achieved. Neither the establishment of a democratic order nor democratic reform and the establishment of a self-sustaining political system. In addition, this report particularly emphasises that in early 2010 there was a certain radicalisation of the opportunities and that, on the occasion of the presidential elections, when President Karzai's main rival practically gave up the election after the first round of elections. We are witnessing the results of the presidential election, and in Afghanistan, the most important elections were accompanied by a number of suspicions, scandals, the departure of some important international diplomats from Afghanistan and heavy accusations that the elections had been staged and therefore there was no atmosphere in which a democratic order was established. The latest developments in the region that are not actually the subject of this Report, but certainly affecting the future and our missions say that the international mission still does not have an effective exit strategy from Afghanistan and that there is a great chance not only to reverse the situation due to the liquidation of one of the greatest terrorists in the history of humanity, but to unfortunately, to come and to radicalise opportunities. What happens at this time in Pakistan, where militant forces succeed in busy and international points, airports, military installations, and keep them for a while, testifies that the situation can be radicalized, because it is no longer just covered by the borders of Afghanistan, but the most important, logisticalally important neighbouring country through which much of the transport of communication with the entire mission in Afghanistan is taking place. For the third year in a row, we have been asking that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in contact with our key allies as part of this mission define the political position of the Republic of Croatia, more detail than it is the syntagm of participation in the international alliance against terrorism, and that protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia is defined as an exit strategy in this case. The Republic of Croatia is not and cannot be side by side in these cases, it is quite clear. We have passed a bloody experience of war in which international forces have played an important role in the ultimate and saving of human lives, stabilising and ending war events, improving the living conditions of the population that was under occupation and occupation force, and ultimately it has led to the possibility that the Republic of Croatia itself and its forces will be free of occupation. Of course, we have a special sensitivity to all those who need international, military, political, but above all humanitarian aid, and our role in this regard should be strengthened in these components, therefore humanitarian and political in relation to the military. Only the report that is in front of us is, in fact, 80% of the text is identical to the report that we adopted a year ago, which was related to the period before this, and it's a bit surprising, a little bit disappointing, that copy paste was the main method of compiling this report. Last year's report contained one important, one important part, and this is a particular sub-chapter which discussed the observed shortcomings and guidelines for improvement. That chapter in this report is gone. We would conclude that everything is ideal and that clearly there is no need to discuss ourselves in front of the Croatian Parliament, political strength, and then functionally enables improvements that will ensure easier and safer implementation of the ISAF mission, and our participation in this mission. Of course, that is not true, and in this sense it is not good that we gave up methodologically because last year, several very important data were listed in this chapter, namely the need of our mission, including the purchase of a vehicle with ballistic protection, means of communication, night observation devices, and parts of camping equipment. That's what the report said. It is also said that the Republic of Croatia must acquire strength for the sake of quality and security of the mission itself to obtain additional motor vehicles and all these means of connections, or to hire them from the Armed Forces of the main Allies, or partners in this operation, which are the Armed Forces of the United States. In this report we have before us, we are told that, unfortunately, it has not yet happened, and that the whole story from 2009 to '10. The 2011 transfer, which covered the 2008 report, stated, even then, for two years it was listed as something without which our mission in Afghanistan could practically not be carried out successfully. We haven't been able to solve this problem for two years. We haven't heard from the motions of this report, or the applicant, whether anything was done in 2011 since we were already in the 6th month, so it's been half a year, if this problem has been solved. It's about at least 30 motor vehicles, and we know that existing motor vehicles within our mission are being superhumanised and probably technical wonders are being able to maintain in quality condition to meet the challenges and needs of the mission itself, and this mission is not equal to the mission in another climate zone, it can't even measure in the one of them on Golan or elsewhere. This mission is extremely and particularly demanding and specific. What should be commended in this report is that for the first time the government has calculated exactly how much the mission cost, regardless of what is not the fiscal year, because this is not a fiscal year report, but a report for a period of 11 months and it has been calculated exactly that the mission cost 241 million 649 thousand and 373 kuna and 60 June. It may sound funny to someone, but it's obvious that the Department of Defense has made an effort to at least make this information detailed, accurate and public. In past reports, that was not the case, but again, we wish the quality of the report had strayed from the copy paste method, so compare this report, you'll see that more than 80% of the text is identical. This is not good, for the ministry that prepares this report is clearly lost to creativity and the quality of information is significantly diminished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74748	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, one notice. The 40th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 8 June 2011 at 14:30 in the hall of Janko Drašković, i.e. Hall 202, and we invite all members of the board to respond to this session. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74749	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan. The Republic of Croatia has been participating in the ISAF mission since 2003 and the contribution of our officers and officers to this mission has been recognised. After a full 8 years since the beginning of a peace operation in Afghanistan, Afghanistan is today without exaggeration we can say the top political theme of the modern world. Why? With justification and for many reasons, solutions are being sought, great efforts are being made, the entire UN-led international community. I'll only mention some of the states that maybe ordinary citizens don't believe are involved in these operations. Korea, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and many others, almost 100,000 soldiers. We're looking for solutions. Solutions are not simple. The expected solutions are one thing, reality is another. What solutions really exist, what solutions are available with the appropriate resources, that's another question. Searching for a solution is a serious political effort for all those who form political decisions by the International Community, NATO, NATO's bodies of the North Atlantic Council, NATO's parliamentary assembly, etc. As far as our engagement in Afghanistan is concerned, the international community can tell the upper limits of its capabilities. This is no exaggeration in financial, material and any other respect. Still, some parallels can retreat with what's been happening in these areas and what's going on in Afghanistan. NATO entered BiH's premises in '95. For years through the IFOR mission, it was NATO's first peacekeeping operation. Sixty thousand people, tanks, armored forces, something that was almost inappropriate in BiH space. In Afghanistan, the situation is more complex. NATO entered Afghanistan in 2003, a country that is nearly tens of times larger than BiH and in which security, political and any other situation is far more complex, far more demanding with tens of thousands of troops at Kabul International Airport and then to other areas of Kabul. It was certainly unrealistic to expect that these forces could achieve the ambitious political goals that the International Community had in its field of vision. And that is why when we talk about the success or failure of the International Community in Afghanistan, we need to take care of the reality and complexity of the problem. It is certainly unrealistic to talk about an exit strategy with fixed dates and fixed deadlines. The exit strategy seems to me that at the end of this year it will be clearer, more visible and more comprehensive especially when the appropriate forces are deployed to the south. A few words about our forces. In the reporting period in the area of peace operation in Afghanistan, ISAF operations were deployed on 14 and 15. Croatian contingent with a 6-month term of office and a total of 589 members. In addition to the rotation of the main contingents during the reporting period, regular shifts of staff officers at the headquarters of the peace operation and the commanding offices, the regional command of the north and Kabul have been carried out. During the rotation of the 15th Contingent, the participation of the Armed Forces within the Lithuanian Contingent was completed and the extraction of the entire people and movable property was carried out. This opportunity would praise the success of our participation in the operation and remind that during all these years the Republic of Croatia, or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, are one of the countries, or of the Armed Forces that did not suffer the victims in this operation. I think it's the best proof of training, preparation, leadership and command of our members in this operation. But given the strengthening of the challenge and... the security situation during the reporting period should be put forward to further strengthen all necessary elements of the functioning of our Armed Forces in this operation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is learning from the experience of ISAF and is a major challenge for our Armed Forces currently leaving the territorial organisation and transforming themselves into mobile forces. It is logical that we apply experience from Afghanistan to guide our reform efforts. The reporting period marked a general increase in the level of uncertainty and instability throughout Afghanistan, thus facing all contingent components, although not to the same extent. The increase in the number of incidents and direct security threats for participants in the pension operation for the Croatian Contingent had no consequences for human or significant material damage. During the reporting period, there was also an improvement in objective factors affecting the work of members, which are within the scope of the Armed Forces. The most significant improvements that have been made relate to communication and information systems and devices, as well as improvements in weapons, equipment, accommodation and protection. Supporting this report, the HDZ Club wants the mission to Afghanistan to succeed and that all members of the Croatian Army live and return healthy to their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74750	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is a follow-up debate on the Annual Report on the preparedness of the Armed Forces and the Defence System coming as one addition to the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan. I'd like to say in the beginning we'll support this report. I would also like to say that all of those political aspects of the participation of the Republic of Macedonia and its Armed Forces in Afghanistan are the right time to discuss when we decide to refer to the next contingent or to increase or reduce the number of members of the Armed Forces, and this report we receive about participation should be one indicator of whether, due to the political circumstances, we need to change our decision to refer. We do not find such indicators in this report, so we will probably continue to support the participation of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan, and of course it is quite important to stress that I will use the word that is now popular, monitoring the public, on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the mission in Afghanistan, on special sensitivity to any incidents and dangers exposed to the members and members of the Armed Forces, and on some other political circumstances, all political factors that make decisions on the permanent and continuous review of the regularity of their decisions on participation in Afghanistan. The SDP as a responsible political party will neither run away from its part of responsibility, including because the first contingent of the Armed Forces was directed in 2003, so when the SDP was part of the ruling majority, it was indeed directed by consensus at the end of the political parties because it needed a two-thirds majority in the Assembly for it, but the fact is that it began at the time of the SDP government and for the second reason that the report for the first time covered the period when the former member and candidate of the SDP is now the president of the state, Ivo Josipovic, when officially commander of the Armed Forces. That is why we are not prone to any politicization of this topic, especially participation in Afghanistan. What do we accept today? So we accept the assessment I would say primarily military components in participation and it was written by the Ministry in this report I will quote it: "The members of the Croatian Contingent during the reporting period acted professionally, performing tasks successfully and disciplined in all situations and environments, possessing the necessary readiness and ability and seeking the rules of action of the peacekeeping operation ISAF. By their work and behaviour they have contributed to the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia both in the performance of their tasks weaving and in cooperation with members of the armed forces of other ISAF participating countries." We agree with this assessment, what we would like to note is that in recent times what we might link to the arrival of the new defence minister, in some ways the Ministry has become more open to answering questions, therefore, primarily the media and journalists about events in Afghanistan, thus reducing the need for suspicion or some other kind of questioning. So good is what is officially obtained from institutions when public and political structures have a high level of trust. We believe that, in this sense, it will continue to take effect and that Mr. Secretary of State, although the closed defence committee sessions where there is a certain degree, I will not call it mistrust but the re-examinations and the information received will no longer be necessary in that section. The fact is, therefore, that a large number of countries are participating in the mission in Afghanistan, and the fact is that some NATO member states have withdrawn their forces or made a decision to withdraw and there is always a question of where the interest of the Republic of Croatia is in that part. This will be the permanent task of all political factors when they make a decision on the deployment of our soldiers somewhere where they are threatened, because it is absolutely certain that there would be no danger there would be no need to refer any foreign soldiers to any country, as well as the Croatian soldiers, and to any parliamentary representative in making a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to a peacekeeping mission is always fear, but the knowledge that some of these soldiers, that their safety is compromised, is always the question to how much. During a debate on sending members of the Armed Forces to the peace mission at Golan High, the Secretary of State used a medium risk expression, not good, of course every risk is high and for the lives of our soldiers no risk is small enough to call it small, therefore there is always a risk. As a result, I hope that there will be a consensus on these topics in the future, although I will remind it of a provision on the required two-thirds majority to refer members of the Armed Forces to a peacekeeping mission, it is now somewhat easier for the ruling majority to make such a decision but I believe that there will be no need in that section for a revote, I hope that the future opposition will not act as it did in 2003 to intervene with the US ambassador or... the soldiers who were to be directed, the HDZ Club changed its opinion from morning to afternoon and will therefore continue to take such decisions and topics beyond the daily policy. Two more things I would like to mention, first of all, I think that Beus noticed and it would be good to emphasize in the next report whether it was resolved or not and cannot be resolved whether there are objective circumstances for what is said, motor vehicles and systems and connections, however, we see that in the report itself it is mentioned that the 14th, 15th contingent, members of the discussion probably warned about such things and that the responsible institutions are trying to solve it. And second, as far as the report methodology itself is concerned, so if the reports are accepted, it doesn't matter whether they're 80% copy traps, rather than whether what they're writing here is credible and true, believing therefore to encourage previous experiences that they are, the SDP Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74752	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, the first distinguished representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74753	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Based on decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan, in the field of peace operation the reporting period was deployed from 18 August 2009 to 15 March 2010 with a total of 294 members, 14, and from 8 March 2010 to 12 September 2010, with a total of 295 members, 15. Croatian contingent. They acted in the area of 3 regional command, so Kabul, north and west. The reporting period marks a general increase in the level of uncertainty and instability throughout Afghanistan, which was faced by all members of the Croatian Contingent component although not to the same extent. The increase in the number of incident situations and direct security threats for those involved in the ISAF peace operation for the Croatian contingent did not result in human injury or significant material damage. During the reporting period, there have been improvements in objective factors affecting the work of members of the armed forces, and the most significant developments are related to the communication information system and devices, as well as improvements in arms, equipment and accommodation. It is also necessary to highlight excellent cooperation in the field of unit mentoring, the formation of new units in the 209th Corps and the arrangements for the locations of Croatian mentor teams with the ANA and ISAF branches. In addition, cooperation has been achieved in the field of recruitment of Croatian members in mentoring jobs in new schools such as aviation engineering logistics, etc. As the Republic of Croatia focuses its activities on training and development of the capacity of Afghan security forces as one of the mission priorities and key assumptions for transition, the Republic of Croatia has reconstructed its strength with a focus precisely on contributing to the training of Afghan security forces. At the beginning of 2010, there was a deterioration in the security situation throughout the Afghanistan area, and intensifying the activities of the rebel forces throughout Afghanistan resulted in an increase in the number of incidents exposed to ISAF forces. The security situation has deteriorated after the announcement that presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah is giving up the electoral candidacy, which is why the second election round has not been held. In all situations of security threats, regardless of their intensity and frequency, members of the Croatian Contingent strictly respected the procedures by retaining a high level of security, protection or a high level of professionalism, and strict compliance with security orders. The above conclusions show that members of the Croatian contingent acted professionally during the reporting period, performed their tasks successfully and disciplined in all situations and environments, having the necessary readiness and ability to seek the proper actions of the peace operation. By their work and behaviour, they contributed to the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia both in the performance of their tasks and in cooperation with members of the armed forces of other ISAF participating countries. In addition, their success is accompanied by numerous commendations from the partner armed forces. Experience gained from the Peace Operation in Afghanistan and lessons learned will contribute to better preparation and training of members of the Armed Forces for participation in peace operations and missions abroad. I'll take this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74754	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74755	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. In fact, the situation in Afghanistan is quite complex and the exit strategy cannot be monitored in my humble opinion until it is dressed and trained at least 350 to 400 thousand domestic soldiers who will primarily be better equipped in that large space, and another thing that requires a large number of soldiers to cover it all. Although NATO's forces led by the United States have a murderous and precise weapon unfortunately occur in the search for members of Al-Qaida or the Taliban, civilians also suffer and then further indignation of citizens to all members of the armed forces. Our 15th contingent that counted somewhere 589 soldiers worked on several teams. It's the National Intelligence Support Team, the National Logistic Support Team, the Task Force of the Military Police, the Task Force of the Infantry, the Mobile Liaison Watch Team, the Operational... team and the Staff. Namely, all those tasks are out-and-out-and-stop behavioral, so that they can be exposed daily to attacks and suicide bombers, and especially their easy forces to raid, because we saw that their opponents in that area mean the Taliban and Al-Qaida are using children for suicide bombers and women, so you don't know which side they can attack you from. So in this time-term mandate came due to good command, good training, equipment and mode of action, we can say that there was no loss of our members of the armed forces in the area. But if we take what the mentor's team's tasks are, it means training their pedestrian company, the level of the company, the battlefield that it's in their camp, and we know that they like to do it, it means that our teams are always on target. Not our guys, but within their own, that it's the military police that's following the VIPs, which are always a good target for terrorists, that military police mean there's homework and traffic that has an eyewitness mission, and in finding mine explosive devices. So basically, our guys are always out there under a lot of danger that someone might get hurt. But here is thanks to the fact that one chain of command, one good training, one ability and mode of action on the ground itself, means applying the mode of action that has contributed to our lack of sacrifices so far. When our boys are going to retire completely from Afghanistan, that's a big question. I don't think domestics learn or have the will to learn too much and become soldiers and defend their country. When it comes to the health condition of this report, you can see other than some dental diseases, respiratory and digestive systems, meaning that there are no severe diseases due to the wind and sand diet. We had a discipline where we had these boys, officers and soldiers who refused their orders in the 14th Contingent, so three were prosecuted by the court, and this 4 is still in court. But we can say that this 15th contingent is quite a good discipline, so again it's leadership and command in the first place. It means that there are no warnings, two warnings that have been made, and that our boys are honorably, knowingly and honestly doing their duty. I think they should be trained well, well equipped because unfortunately the state from day to day from month to month is in Afghanistan is essentially getting harder and harder. And we can only train them well and equip them and pray to God that someone doesn't get hurt there. Here, I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74756	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And I'm going to support this report, but in a very different way and I want to say something that the secretary of state in his opening statement didn't say, and I think we should talk here with arguments and try to justify that argument then. I will specifically refer to his exposure regarding the risk of our soldiers and the effect of the Croatian mission in Afghanistan. I wouldn't, Mr. Secretary of State, use a risk, I'd talk about death. In Afghanistan, the number of dead soldiers has been on the rise for 10 years. I'll give you a few figures. In 2001, 12 coalition soldiers died in Afghanistan, two years later 57, two years later, 131 soldiers were killed, in 2007, 232, in 521. We don't have complete data for this year, but 711 soldiers died last year. Someone will seem to know that the number you took from 159 to May this year is a fall, not because one who knows little about geography knows that Afghanistan is surrounded by snow and ice in winter and that spring, summer and the first part of autumn is the period when coalition soldiers are killed. Every 150 soldiers in Afghanistan will die this year, every 150. There are also good data to be provided, and you did not say them. The economic growth of Afghanistan in the last few years is 12% a year, which is very good. What surprised me is that in the past 10 years, as many as 5 million people who left Afghanistan have now returned with their knowledge, with some capital and have encouraged economic development, which is for every praise, and that's good. What is also good is that about 300 thousand soldiers, Afghan soldiers who will soon be able to take over from international forces, have already been trained, and that is commendable. Now Croatia's contribution. You said we had a few criteria that you described in the 11th place. I was only able to find the number of soldiers, we're by the number of soldiers somewhere in 16th, 17th place. But what's interesting now, when you take and compare that number and that financial item in the budget with other items in the budget or compare it with other countries, then we get some illogicalness. For example, Finland has a double lower contingent, and it has little more than the Croatian population. Slovenia is only 80, I think, soldiers and civilians, so a quarter of what we have. Switzerland and the Netherlands have completely withdrawn their forces. And now if we compare the peace mission, the cost of one soldier to another item, then there's something that's a little bit devastating. We, for one soldier in Afghanistan or another peacekeeping mission, and we have many thanks to God, each year about 900 thousand kuna, so almost a million kuna. According to one scientist, in Croatia we have 10,000 scientists, this year we will allocate 130 million kuna for their scientific projects, so 13 thousand kuna per scientist. Or if you take the BICRO, for business innovation in the Croatian economy they singled out last year it seems to me about 6 million euros, that is 45 million kuna, that is 1000 kuna per craft in Croatia for innovation and the promotion of these innovations. In Finland, not to single out twice as much for innovation as for peacekeeping missions but 50 times as much as for peacekeeping missions. So these are the illogicalities where we have to think carefully about whether we are truly greater Catholics than the pope. No one, colleagues and colleagues, would mind giving this assistance to Afghanistan in some other form, and that we have somewhat less clear military components. This isn't just a peace mission, this is a civilization mission, this is a humanitarian mission, and we should definitely support it, but we need to see where the border is and what we can do to make some things move. Here I wouldn't continue to owe, I've repeated a part of this data and in something different, and last year, and I'll repeat it if it should be every year, but I think that really colleagues and colleagues need to think about what we need and whether these are the kind of ratios we need to have right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74758	Thank you. And it is up to the honourable representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary. So here is the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan from October 2009 to 31 August 2010 and we certainly support it as well as the mission made by our Armed Forces in Afghanistan, which certainly deserves all praise, which has shown to all NATO members that Croatia has one respectable armed force and members and officers and officers as well as soldiers who meet their tasks with honor and who are ready for all challenges, but are ready to transfer their knowledge and skills to the national component of the army in Afghanistan as soon as possible to establish order and civilization norms in that country. In a peace operation in Afghanistan, the 14th and 15th contingent of the Croatian Army was deployed during the reporting period. During that reporting period... is a general increase in the level of uncertainty and instability throughout Afghanistan, with members of all Croatian contingents facing them. [[You don't understand.]] The increase in the number of incidents, the situation and direct security threats for the ISAF peace operation participants for the Croatian contingent did not result in human injury or significant material damage. In early 2010, there was an intensification of the activities of the rebel forces throughout Afghanistan resulting in an increase in the number of incidents exposed to ISAF forces. In all situations of security threats, regardless of their intensity and frequency, or whether they were direct threats or spontaneous attacks carried out by improvised explosive devices, missiles or through suicide bombers in relatively peaceful areas, members of the Croatian contingent strictly respected the procedure by retaining a high level of security and protection. During the reporting period, there were no direct attacks on members of the Croatian contingent. There have been improvements in objective factors affecting the work of members of the Armed Forces, and the most significant developments are related to communication and information systems and devices, as well as improvements in arms, equipment and accommodation. In July 2010 at the camp... in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The north began building accommodation facilities for members of the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the Republic of Croatia is focusing its activities on training and development of the capacity of Afghan security forces as one of the priorities of the mission and key assumptions for transition. The Republic of Croatia has restructured its strength to contribute to the training of Afghan security forces. One of the major successes is co-operation with NATO's training mission in Afghanistan as well as other NATO structural units in the ISAF. On the implementation of the tasks... teams in the area... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to highlight excellent cooperation in the area... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] units of the Afghan People's Army or ANE for short, and answers about the locations of Croatian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] teams with ANE and ISAF officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An operational mentoring team at the level of the pedestrian battle performs the tasks of mentoring, training and consulting the pedestrian battle it instructs for its everyday activities and in conducting operations. The mentoring is carried out in an Afghan army camp in Mazaret Sharif, and on the ground in conducting a combat-level operation he is able to move with the battle he is associated with. In accordance with the plans and circumstances of the ISAF operation, and its intensive engagement in operations requires longer-term self-sustainability and independence. Garnizonski... engages in training and training of members of the Afghan Army for logistics duties at garrison level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The work of garrison and corpus is taking place in command. Fighting support under its structure of multinational character with Croatian command other than members of the Armed Forces by which members of the Armed Forces of the United States of America, i.e. The National Guards of Minnesota task Omelt's combat support are training and mentoring work of the company and command of the Afghan Army's combat support and the task of this Omelt differs from the task of Omelt on footing only by mentoring military combat support. The commanding role of the Armed Forces in this component brings important experience in the management and command of multinational troops, especially in operational surveillance. Cooperation has also been achieved in the field of recruitment of Croatian members in mentoring jobs in new schools, aviation, engineering and logistics. The members of the Croatian contingent during the reporting period acted professionally by performing their tasks successfully and disciplinedly. In all situations and environments, possessing the necessary readiness and ability required by the rules of operation of the ISAF peace operation. By their work and behaviour they contributed to the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia both in the performance of their tasks and in cooperation with members of the Armed Forces of other ISAF States. And what is important again to emphasise in this report that it is clear that we are as Armed Forces, which the Secretary of State has already said, but it is good to repeat from 48 countries participating in this peacekeeping mission, Croatia is in 11 positions by its action and engagement, which is valued on the basis of the score of the total national contribution to ISAF. Operation ISAF certainly is not just a matter of military engagement and troops in the circuit teams, but also of material and construction and other activities of assistance in the development of Afghanistan, so that, with a military component, the civilian component has its own role, which is also measurable and unconstitutional. At these moments, surely the Republic of Croatia is unable to help material resources develop Afghanistan, but in these forces that study their combat units, which their security forces train to further establish peace and order, and the implementation of the law certainly has resources and surely these resources are recognised throughout the world, and assessed by very high assessments. Therefore, by supporting this report, we give full support to our forces, which are deployed worldwide and especially in the mission in Afghanistan, and we wish them great success in further their work and progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74760	We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I fully agree with the data that counterpart Djakic provided. In fact, he reminded me of something we didn't discuss enough, which is this non-war contribution to Afghanistan. In the report we saw, but we did not get an explanation Afghanistan was visited last year by a large delegation, a large delegation of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. If I'm not wrong about 18 people or 28 people in that delegation. I would be very interested if perhaps in the final report, or final address of the Parliament, the State Secretary tells us what are the achievements after the visit. Whether agreements related to economic co-operation, investment or something like that have been established in the economic segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74762	Thank you. And the final representative of the proposer, Honorable Pierre Simunovic, State Secretary at the defence ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74763	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for the discussion and the suggestions, the suggestions. In the first place, as far as the report itself is concerned, it was very important to hear your thoughts on how to make this report look better. So everything I've had a chance to point out in the previous debate on the annual report is also about this report and every other one we're working on. All elements of your suggestions, remarks, will be included in the follow-up reports. In the first place, I would like to thank the more quality final report and, of course, the more transparent and clear explanation and communication of both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public about all the activities of the defence system, mainly the one that is so critical, and it concerns our participation in international peace operations in the first place, of course, in the most complex of them in the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. A few notes regarding the very protection of our forces, which is greatly realised through appropriate means, in this case special vehicles building to resist what is the biggest threat in Afghanistan, which are improvised explosive devices, mean we're talking about armored HUMVEEs, for example and special vehicles... So-called [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] M-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m... Indeed, I thank the representatives for the question and for the observations concerning the purchase of these vehicles, indeed after this reporting period of that vehicle in full scale and have been obtained, so that at this moment we have 60 armored HUMVEE, the most possible configurations equipped with all tactical and communication equipment and 10 of these larger M-RAP vehicles specially designed to resist and to resist the most powerful explosive attacks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that was really our priority, and now we have it, of course, on loan from our American partners, which, on the one hand, proves the reputation and closeness of the relationship we have with our main strategic partners headed by the Americans. A note of the strategy itself in Afghanistan that we should be in charge of, I think as far as we are concerned, and as the international community and NATO as the main holder of the operation in Afghanistan, I think it is a general rule that we are talking about a strategy of success, so we are talking about a strategy of success which is not necessarily what would be called an exit strategy. The exit strategy would imply, it has a connotation of withdrawal, and leaving in some way the country itself, leaving the country to itself, which, such an approach could definitely violate all those victims, all those investments that were previously invested in Afghanistan, so that definitely one option is not on the table, on the table is this strategy of success that implies transition, which implies enabling the Afghan state instruments at the head of their, say, security forces of fundamental importance for the stability of the country, that they strengthen them enough, to assist them in terms of training and equipment, so that they can take full responsibility for their country. And in this part of the operation, we see our special role, I was talking about it at the beginning, meaning on this strategy to strengthen our contribution to the training part of the mission, and that is definitely what the success strategy is recognised in, that is, our strategy, parallel to it and develop instruments of stronger integration of Afghanistan in the international community and with bilateral and with all these countries, the bilateral, important aspect, the issue has been asked about the economic presence, the economic options that appear to us in Afghanistan, absolutely, was the delegation of direct result after that delegation is the establishment of a Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Afghanistan, which is working to represent the opportunities of our industry not only in the defence industry, but the entire Croatian industry, and the options that stand at our disposal in the sense of trade, so we are optimistic, I say the Ministry of Defence is not only in the defence industry, but we have a certain kind of support of infrastructure, which we have in terms of planning, and we have to be able to implement our own. Our position next to the engagement of our forces which is highly appreciated, and the way we work and the way we are civilization, culturally, religiously sensitive in contact with the Afghans simply, with the very efficiency of the implementation of the mission, has contributed to our outstanding reputation as countries through our forces engaged in the Afghans themselves, so we have the grounds to believe that based on this one business-good relationship that we have had the opportunity to build in Afghanistan and achieve certain jobs. This is also related to what I would like to say, in the end, to answer the question of relatively large investments in the operation itself and the costs associated with it, the fact is and at no time did we want to hide that engagement in such an operation is expensive, it is especially when the country is working, and that is exactly what we are doing as a system and as a country is that our soldiers, members and members of the Armed Forces that we are sending to this operation provide absolutely everything they need and in terms of this double assurance of the effectiveness of the mission and their personal protection. Of course, the insurance of life insurance and their pay itself, it is a significant cost, but it is a cost that directly builds on the international credibility of the Republic of Croatia, and then credibility needs to be spilled through both business and direct economic benefits, and in favour of the support we enjoy a truly high level of support that we enjoy by our main strategic partners, which are also the leading countries of the world, for the goals that matter to us. So we are all day-to-day witnesses to the support that we are now receiving in these final steps on the EU accession plan from a number of countries, and this support is deserved among other things by our credible contribution to what is important throughout the international community, which is the stabilisation of a crisis hotspot whose instability or whose escalation would lead to incomprehensible consequences for this region and for wider international security. So it is, I absolutely agree with the state, it is necessary that there is a balanced investment in the whole spectrum of legitimate areas, but this is one area that is also very difficult to observe isolatedly, it flows through its use and into a number of other areas by contributing to the national interests of the country. Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74764	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. This concludes the morning session. We begin at 3:00 p.m. on the fourth agenda, and this is the Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74765	We move to the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) from 1 October 2009 to 31 August 2010. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) is hereby adopted from 1 October 2009 to 31 August 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on the report. The result? This report was accepted by the majority of 98 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74766	We continue with the afternoon session and work on the announced point - Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child Proposing Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 6. The child rights award law was delivered by the government. You received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Sunny Head, vice president of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child requires that the Republic of Croatia award a child's right to promote exceptional achievements in the protection of the welfare of children's rights and interests. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. It is prescribed that the prize for promoting the rights of the child is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which consists of 5 members, and is established by the Croatian Parliament in time of 2 years. Members of the board shall be appointed from the order of known public workers dealing with issues related to the rights of the child and on the proposal of the parent body of the Croatian Parliament. The term of office of the previous appointed members of the Committee expired on 24 October 2010. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament at the 35th session held on 14 December 2010 and the 36th session held on 10 March 2011 decided unanimously to propose: Dubravka Malesh, a regular professor and head of the Department of Pedagoggy of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, won the 2006 Lifetime Work Award for the promotion of child rights; dr. Gordana Buljan-Flander Director of the City of Zagreb Child Protection Center; Dr. Anu Stavenić-Rukavina doctor specialist in biochemistry medicine, professor of the Faculty of Medicine and Pharmaceuticals at the University of Zagreb retired; Ksenija Mandarić founder and president of the Association for Promoting Creative Expression of Children, Youth and Adults... Tribunj and Mr. Dragan Zlatovic, who acted as head of the Sibenik Theatre and is the director of the International Children's Festival in Sibenik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74768	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the very beginning, I will say that the HDZ Club will support the proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. You've heard what the committee proposes, which are persons and I think it's about qualified and professional persons who have proven themselves professionally to deserve to be members of the board right now. Care for children also deserves our full attention. Let me just expand the subject a little bit, so the attention of all segments of society from state bodies and institutions, and also if we bring it down to a lower level of the body of local, regional (regional) self-government, as well as religious communities, professional associations, experts, associations of citizens and individuals. And of course, there has always been an opportunity for us to look at and what has been done in society, what individuals have done and why they would deserve and have earned by their work to be also winners of such a prize. The winners of the prize so far, we can say freely, were people who knew how to hear and listen to the needs of the child, and that was also the case of excellent experts, those who provided human help. And here are our proposed members of the Child Promotion Award Committee. Mostly in their work some of them are self-absorbed, perhaps not loud enough, but I think they are recognized precisely to get a place on this important committee that will recognize all those people who are selflessly concerned about the welfare of children at any level, we said either to the state either within an institution or at the level at which they are sometimes not loud enough or perhaps medialy accompanied. So, I invite you to announce the proposed board members as soon as possible and remind you, of course, of what we must not forget to remember not just one day of children but to take care of them daily. So, especially November 20th on International Children's Day. I'll remind you when in '65. The UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, and we know that the Republic of Croatia is also a signator of the document. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child and, of course, the proposed members, we will wish for successful work and to propose those who deserve to receive a reward for promoting the rights of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74770	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored vice presidents of the board, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS-HSU club will support the proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee on Rewards to promote the rights of the child. The prize will be awarded for outstanding achievements in the protection and welfare of children's rights and interests, so it was worth proposing in this regard and I hope that we will confirm the proposed candidates and candidates. Our smallest and youngest members of the community urgently need special attention and protection. The way we treat them gives away our true and true face both individuals and society as a whole and/or state. Unfortunately, in the history of mankind, there are no periods in which children have not been abused and exploited, and this is a particularly serious form of human rights violation. Just a year after the founding of the UN in 1946, UNICEF was founded. An organization that helps protect children especially through the Charter of Rights of the Child adopted in 1959 and whose preamble states that mankind owes children the best they have. In 1989, the Charter was expanded, and it grew into the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the document that was most ratified in the world, but the results expected by others were as someone said in children's shoes. What is prescribed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations is not a waste to repeat because the rights are summarised or can be summarised in 10 points. All children and young ones have the same rights, neither child should be damaged because of their sex, skin color, tongue, or religion. Children and young people have the right to the greatest possible measure of health protection as well as health prevention and medical care. Children and young people have the right to free elementary education, and they must also be provided with a visit to schools that could further educate them. Children and young people are entitled to leisure time, play and participate in cultural and artistic activities. Children and young people have the right to information as well as to speak freely and be heard. Children and young ones have the right to good education, their parents or educators must not use force. Abuse and child abuse are forbidden. Children and young people have the right to war and escape to receive special assistance and protection, children and young people have the right to protection from work that would also be used to protect them from sexual abuse. Children and young ones have the right to live with their parents and to contact both parents if they live apart. After all, children and young people with disabilities are entitled to special support and promotion as well as active participation in social life. Why particular rights of the child are needed, it is often known to ask a question, since children are people so that human rights should actually apply to children. Unfortunately, the experience shows that children, though innocent, are exposed to difficult situations and fates. For example, several examples of data for example in 2000 show a catastrophic situation in which some children of the world were found or are still present. More than 2 million children have died in wars in the last 10 years. 10 million children worldwide have severe psychological damages as a consequence of war, 30 million children live in war areas, in 26 countries of the world children under 16 are used as soldiers on assignments. For these reasons and also because of children exposed to hunger, lack of medical supplies, exploitation of work, sexual abuse, and other things, a special document needed to further protect the needs of children and young people. Parenthood is the most honorable call and the greatest challenge of all human endeavors. In raising one human being, we influence this individual, but the future of the world is stronger and more striking than perhaps anything else we will ever do. Most parents have never acquired absolutely all the skills needed to achieve ideal success on this noble task, and unfortunately children are not born with manual instructions, so there are problems that can unfortunately arise and result in various injustices that bear the weak children's back. Parenthood is a beautiful and very demanding role in man's life. There are no prescribed and tried recipes of raising a young man, a child. Each child seeks his individual approach, and that makes us researchers of the child’s magical and unpredictable world to help him develop as a perfectly happy and contented being. Let me mention the record of a mother named Diana Lumens, I think we'll be in her records either entirely or at least some of her parts. She says, "If I could raise my child again, I'd paint more with my fingers and less with my finger. I'd fix it less, and I'd set up more relationships with him. I'd take my eyes off the clock and take a closer look at him. I'd make sure I know less and I care more. I'd go on more trips and play more dragons. I'd stop playing serious, and I'd play serious. I'd run through more fields and look at more stars. I'd hug him more and less. I'd rather be slow and confess a lot more to him. First, I'd build his confidence and then maybe a house later. I would teach him less love of power and more about the power of love." That's what one mother wrote down, with a lot of it, and I absolutely agree and I believe there's no one here who at least disagrees with part of this record. In that sense, I think that the proposed members of this Committee will follow and observe our environment to find all those who, by their work and action, deserve to be highlighted for this award and, as I said, the HNSH Club will support this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74772	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and first of all, the distinguished representative Nedjak Klaric is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I am going to focus this debate on raising awareness of children's rights and sensitizing adults to achieve children's rights. In this way, the decision to set up a child rights award committee with these people who are proposed will also result in the promotion of exceptional achievements both in the protection and in the welfare and rights of children. The prize awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize with these people on the board will also fulfill the goal and purpose of the prize. The proposed people are well-known public workers dealing with children's rights as we've heard. It is the right of every child to fully develop all its potentials. Such development can be successfully achieved in a stimulating environment in the atmosphere and action in the process of rich and diverse interactions and it will then be easy to find what meets its needs. As much as it seems to us that we may always repeat, and that this sentence that I have spoken to all of us is well known, I keep saying that we have to keep repeating it because it is definitely the greatest supply and the best supply for our children to grow up happily. How satisfying children’s needs are, in fact, reflecting the behavior of each of our children. Is it joy, good mood, optimism, or fear, depression, or aggression? To enable a child to see himself as a positive being with the potential for advancement and to enable him to meet his needs and his personal rights without jeopardizing at the same time other people's rights and needs we call the right building of a happy man. The proposed people of this committee will motivate children to create, because in creation, the child is also raised, socialised, acquired experiences that contribute to the unique and coherent development of physical, intellectual, social and emotional personality. The proposed people understand the language of children's games, so they understand children's creative abilities. Therefore, children’s creation will also cultivate and develop until its full glory. The proposed people will promote values enriched by new knowledge, experience, experience and emotion. In this way, our children will find in themselves the value of attention, praise, and recognition because most children are expressed in language of understanding and love. It distinguishes its positive self from the negative within it, understands and respects others and its feelings, emotions, and desires. The aim of the National Programme, education and human rights education is to build a person who respects human rights, protects his rights but also the rights of others, fights any form of violence and advocates peaceful conflict resolution, for a democratic society based on equality, justice and freedom. Important tasks include gaining knowledge of yourself, others, and the environment in which he lives, developing positive attitudes toward life, building up positive personality traits, developing intellectual and social skills and applying these skills to everyday life. All these are the values that will be properly evaluated by this committee, precisely by these people who make up this team, so I will very much support the decision to set up a committee for the promotion of child rights, a team of more than five members of this committee, respected colleagues and colleagues, two members make up people from my Sibenik-Knin County, and almost all of us citizens or citizens in my county, without being followed or also in the whole country, if they don't know what the values of an international children's festival are, which even during the most difficult times of the Homeland War, did not remain undetected and that it has fulfilled all the contents and promoted the rights and interests of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74774	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative of Shima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of Child National No. 96/2003. and 33/2005. He prescribed that the Republic of Croatia award for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection, welfare of the rights and interests of children. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. The provision of Article 6 of the Law stipulates that the award for the promotion of the right of the child is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which consists of 5 members, and is established by the Croatian Parliament in time of two years. Members of the board shall be appointed from the ranks of well-known public workers dealing with issues related to the rights of the child and on the proposal of the parent body of the Croatian Parliament. Although so far... appointed board members... 24 October 2010. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament at the 35th session held on 14 December 2010 and the 36th session held on 10 March 2011 decided to propose to the professor, Dr Dubravko Malesh, Prof. dr. Gordana Buljan Flander, Prof. Dr. Anu Stavljević Rukavina, Mrs. Ksenija Madarić and Mr. Dragin Zlatovic, the Master of Law. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as did the parent board, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74776	Thank you. And it is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74777	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Of course, I support the proposal to set up a committee to promote, protect the welfare of children's interests. Of course it is, and this is another extra child protection proposal that my colleague used to say. I also support the distinguished gentlemen who have been proposed to be members of this committee, who have always been happy during their work to promote the rights of the child and who, of course, have received various awards for this action. Of course, I would take advantage of this opportunity, so I would talk about the fact that every 5th child is a victim of some abuse, some form of neglect, or endangerment of the needs or rights of a child. Of course, by conscience and by family law, everyone is obliged to inform the welfare center about the violation of children’s rights, especially of all forms and of mental and physical and sexual abuse, neglect. And now we're wondering, is that what we're actually doing? Every violence and abuse and any right to harm a child in our country is in fact felt by all compassion for the abused, especially when it comes to children, and also by disgust, horror, and condemnation to abusers. The abuse, violence and rude neglect of children were before. But there was a little discussion about them, sort of like it was hiding. The problem of both emotional and physical, sexual abuse is more or less present in all environments, but as I say very often it was, it was hiding, it was family secrets and today in schools when we try to regain awareness of the problem of abuse, the problem of violence actually among children and children. You see very often that the directors are trying to say that they're okay with everything as if they want to prove themselves to be good directors, but unfortunately we're only all good when we point to a problem, when we see what happens to children, it's a starting point that we can change anything. Therefore, it is necessary to publicly state, acknowledge the existence and violence, any injuries, speak openly about the phenomenal forms of all abuses, etc. The children's rights in Croatia actually began to be written at the end of the '90s or early of this century, actually when I have to mention, among other things, the professor, or before Dr. Flander, which, of course, resulted in the opening of a polyclinic, blue phone, a brave phone and a series of other organizations dealing with the protection of children's rights in abuse. Of course, campaigns against the physical punishment of children have been conducted and are currently under way to campaign against sexual violence against children. This way of working as well as marking the day, the thematic days are mostly the way we talk about children's rights today. We must not, of course, forget the Office of Advocates for Children who I must say is very active and who is really working with his teams to promote children's rights, i.e. to protect children's rights in Croatia. She constantly proposes to amend and supplement the law, which is actually done when the problem she actually gets to her office is analysed in detail. And the sad news is about abolishing the attorney general's office, i.e. connecting to one of the defense attorneys. It seems to me that it will be one step back as far as children's rights in Croatia are concerned. I can say that in Croatia, however, much has been done to protect children's rights in the event of a breach, I said, all of these institutions that have been made. However, what is missing, it seems to me that this is, that it is poorly working on the development of associations and organisations, i.e. that more support should be given to children’s organisations. When you look at the society of Our children or UNICEF, which is somehow the two main organizations involved, but I think maybe you should work more systematically to promote children's rights and interests in the community. It seems to me that both through schools and through our sports societies that we should perhaps have a greater educational role and in fact that this system of values should be structured, but that it may exist on paper, but that it should become more visible in fact to protect children's rights in this way. I still have to point out what a local community can do, try through its own mechanisms and resources to create conditions for the development of children's rights, so what we do in Dubrovnik, we do various projects, we have a programme to protect children, then we co-finance the various needs of children who are more needed in terms of co-financing and assistants in follow-up and through various other projects. Then development of playgrounds, sports grounds. But I also have to mention this problem that given the dangers to children, which is the Internet and computers, because the worst of these playgrounds are unfortunately not full because they are mostly with computers. Therefore, we can finally say that we are all sensitive to the needs of children, to the violations of their rights, but we must say one more thing, that we must not forget that we are models to children and as adults, as parents, as adults, and also as politicians, apart from being models, we must say that we are also responsible for protecting the rights of the child. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to work on promoting rights, protecting rights and their interests, and once again I say that I also welcome this proposal to reward the best promoters. I believe in the members of this committee and in the end the prize is always beautiful, it is received by adults, let alone children, and it is always a good incentive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74778	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74779	We move on to the proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The proposal is from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. The result? This motion for a decision was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74780	We're moving on to the next point. This is - Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 the Government submitted this report on the basis of Article 110. Budget law. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Martina Dalic, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So before us is the Annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2010. The annual report consists in fact of 10 different documents, including a presentation of income, expenditure and receipts, a special part of the state budget by budget users showing organisational, economic and programme classification by programmes and activities, a report on borrowing on the domestic and foreign markets, a report on the use of budget supplies, a report on government guarantees given, an explanation of macroeconomic movements, an explanation of income, expenditure, the implementation of the financial plans of extra-financial users, an explanation of the achievement of income, income, income, expenditure, expenditure, expenditure and the deficit of the general government in 2010. The overall report contains 1474 pages. And what is valuable and important for this year is that for the first time, the report on the implementation of the state budget also contains the reasons for the implementation of the financial plans of the ministries and other users of the state budget, which is in fact the report in which the ministries themselves were tasked to link the objectives and tasks they set for themselves during 2010 with their financial plans or budget implementation. Therefore, the largest part of the 944 report itself refers to the descriptions of the ministries themselves and their report on what they were doing during 2010 and on which activities and programmes were used by their budget allocations. In addition to the implementation report, a report on the state budget audit for 2010 was made by the State Audit Office. Allow just a few words about the results themselves. It is clear that in 2010, the budget was implemented in an unfavourable macroeconomic environment that marked the decline of the gross domestic product. However, the total revenues of the state budget were reached at 99.5% and 0.5%, respectively, below what was planned in the amount of HRK 107.8 billion compared to 2009 were reduced by 2.5%. Tax revenues were collected in the amount of HRK 61.8 billion or 2% more than in 2009. Specific revenues from value added tax amounted to 37.7 billion kuna or 1.7% more than in 2009. Tax and income tax were reached at 1.2 billion kuna or 14.1% less than in 2009. However, it is important to note that the achievement of income tax revenue was also affected by changes in the income tax law itself in June 2010 when income tax rates were reduced. Revenues from administrative fees and revenue under special regulations were made at €3.5 billion, which is 13.8% higher than in last year and is largely the result of the introduction of a fee for providing mobile electronic communications services in July 2009. The revenue from the contribution was realised in the amount of HRK 38.7 billion or 3.2% less than in 2009. The expenditure of the state budget was also made less than planned for 9.4% and total expenditure in 2010 was 121.9 billion kuna. The expenditure in 2010 was more than 1.7 billion kuna and the most with the basis of pension expenditure, unemployment and interest benefits.The total government budget deficit in 2010 was 14 billion kuna or 4.2%. When the results of the state budget are consolidated with the results of extra-financial funds and units of local self-government, the total lack of a consolidated general government in 2010 was 14.5 billion kuna or 4.3% of GDP, which is 0.3% of GDP less than planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74782	Thank you. Do the representatives, the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. We're crossing. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. What I would like to point out on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the beginning that for the first time since the beginning of the Croatian state, together with a report on the implementation of the state budget, the State Audit report is also being considered. So basically with the data contained in the Budget Report can be combined with the State Audit report, and then you will see that certain findings concerning the State Audit Reports, if you look a little better at budgeting, then you will see that many things that are characterized that something is exceeded, when you see what it is then you will see that some things are justified. Take, for example, the guarantees, precisely the guarantees issued for shipbuilding, that this is over-guarantee. However, if we were to discuss specifically the State Audit report, then it would be like this, it could be politicized but why I'm saying this. For a simple reason, because last year when it was a matter of guarantees for 3. May then all the political options said we should give guarantee 3. May to survive we were just looking for a model and a way to do it so that Brussels would not declare these guarantees illegal. The same story is the overrun of the interest part. No one knew at the time the budget was created under what conditions the states would be in debt during 2010. It also reports on programmes and activities and funding projects from the state budget by individual users, for the first time giving us a visual report on why the funds were used. Whether certain ministries carried out their programmes and activities in accordance with the planned means or not, they were not accordingly. I would not like to repeat what the Minister said as far as the figures themselves are concerned about the achievement of the state budget. Some of the achievements were due to the legal changes, both in the downside and in the downside, so we can say that the effect of VAT growth was, among other things, because of the 1% increase in the rate, but also the fall in income tax from some 14% was due to the change in the Income Tax Act and the reduction in the first rate from 15% to 12%. However, what I would like to say on behalf of the HDZ Club when we talk about the report on the implementation of the 2010 state budget, how we can split the revenues into several groups and expenditures, and then if we compare the revenue side of the state budget, then we will see that we can place them somewhere on a level between 2006 and 2007. While at the same time the expenditure side of the 2010 state budget far above the amount that was somewhere in 2006, 2007. Why? Therefore, for the simple reason of certain acquired rights which were not only created in the period from 2005, the sixth and until 2010 but also certain rights that were given far earlier. So if you look at the spending side, so the total resources for health care, for social welfare, for pensions, and the total aid given to citizens and households are 64 billion and 885 million. And that's where I'd like to draw attention especially to one thing. Incomes from pension insurance contributions are slightly less than 20 billion, 19 billion and 600, 700 million. However, pension expenditures are 34 and a half billion. Therefore, the difference between the income from the pension contribution and what was paid for pensions on all grounds. We can talk about one or another pension now. However, there are very few pensioners who have not made a pension contribution in one part of their lives. So 15 and a half billion is the difference between what is collected for pensions and what is paid for pensions. So when you look at the state budget, 13.9 billion clearly speaks in which direction expenditures went. Why am I saying that? For the simple reason that when we talk about both the expenditure side of the state budget, and we can also talk about the revenue side of the state budget then without taking certain structural reforms we can very hard talk about spending cuts, and we can also very hard to talk about increasing income by doing more than we can say at this time with full certainty that fiscal or tax capacity however you want both Croatian citizens and the economy is at a very, very low level because unfortunately this crisis has exhausted them for the past two years. So, if we look at certain expenditures, then we will see that the salaries are set aside without health care, 22 billion kuna, for pensions 34 and a half, only health care without salaries is 21 billion, subsidies, support and other aid are 6.7 billion kuna, agriculture, incentives 3 and a half billion kuna, aid to Croatia's railways a billion and a half kuna, social benefits of 2 billion kuna, maternity benefits of 2 billion and 190 kuna, child's allowance of a billion and 700, compensation for the unemployed one billion and 500, and that's about 121 billion kuna. And when we talk about reducing the expenditure side of the state budget, then we can only talk about these positions that I've counted. Because all other positions are so small that any cutting these positions would in principle not significantly reduce the expenditure side of the state budget. And that brings us back to what is often heard in this assembly is whether at a given time, regardless of the various political considerations about certain structural reforms, we must have a common position. And we're simply going to have to have it at some point if we want to bring the state spending level down to a certain level, because definitely with an economic growth of 1 and a half or 1.2% of the state budget's revenues will not be able to grow so much that the government budget deficit of 14 billion kuna is more drastically reduced in the next period. However, what should certainly be pointed out is that the Prime Minister with all government members last year managed to keep expenditures at a billion kuna less than planned. And when you look at the expenditures that grew last year because not all expenditures were reduced then you'll see that certain expenditures were growing and quite a bit. Therefore, primarily pensions for 421 million kuna were to provide additional funding, benefits for employees and an active employment policy programme of 314 million kuna and an increase in financial expenditure. It's primarily a billion-dollar interest and a hundred million kuna. So in addition to these billions and 700 kuna expenditure increases, the expenditure side of the state budget was less than planned in the last year. So, colleagues and colleagues, it's definitely what we can say that no matter how much we agree or disagree on the level of the deficit of the state budget he was nominally in economically looking at better times was equal or something greater than he is now. However, we can definitely say at this point that Croatia is coming out of recession, from the economic crisis practically without anyone's help. There were demands here for both the International Monetary Fund and this and that. However, no financial institution due to the global financial and economic crisis in Croatia could be identified at this time. On the one hand, it is the merit of both monetary and fiscal policies. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia has increased its debt on the international financial market due to the major deficit because let's not forget that in 2008, we were practically close to balancing the budget. The government budget deficit before the crisis was 0.8%. So, this deficit is now the consequence of the economic crisis, and also let's not run away from that it's the consequence of certain rights that we all are, is that now we're participating both in the government and those who are in opposition, and they were in power for a time, at a certain point, and they just have to pay off. Because no one here is going to say that it wasn't necessary to pay the pensions, that it wasn't necessary to pay the child's allowance, that it wasn't necessary to pay the maternity benefits or anything like that. And that was why we were in charge. That was why the public debt of the Republic of Croatia grew in the past. However, when you combine the deficit of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and when you combine the share of public debt in the gross domestic product, then you will see that Croatia does not stand badly compared to the old members at all, and neither does it stand badly in relation to these members. However, some new members, when they are at the level of the infrastructure equipment at which Croatia is today, are certain that their share of public debt in the gross domestic product will be far higher. Therefore, most European Union members, if you look at the share of gross domestic, public debt in gross domestic product, the average of the European Union is 80.2%, or if you look at the average deficit of the state budget, then it is 6.4% in the members of the European Union. This gives us no right to no triumphalism, nor to celebrate, nor to look forward to being worse than we are, but simply in this economic crisis, he acted as anyone could. Some of the funds were more available to them than they were to Croatia, because due to the protection of the euro, because of this or that political reason, many have received funds from the International Monetary Fund, they have received funds from Brussels, and Croatia should have met its needs on a very demanding international financial market, and what is very important in contrast to those of us who are very critical, international financial market Croatia looks a little more beautiful eyes than it is, however, definitely what I want to say in the end that if we want to do a different, better and better and cost-effective side of certain structural reforms are simply something to be done. When I was talking about that Shipyard Act, I said over the last eight years how much money had gone to the shipyards. So not wanting to do so nor justify the last two HDZ governments, not wanting to accuse this government of a coalition that was from 2000 to 2003. Why? For the simple reason that we both had an intention to raise that shipbuilding to one higher level. In 2002, however, despite taking over shipbuilding obligations and giving 8 billion to restructure shipbuilding managed to implement and launch the restructuring process, unfortunately the same problems that were then happening in the period later. And when we add up those 8 billion, when we sum up these guarantees that are now to be taken over after the shipbuilding restructuring, when we add up those funds that we paid from the state budget for... The guarantees over the past three years can then be said that we have invested 25 billion kuna in shipbuilding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Score. We have a situation in shipyards, the way they are, and... All this is expensive if we don't take structural reforms, if we don't do something, we'll spend money on Croatian citizens, unfortunately we won't have any results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74784	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74785	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Shucker has made two incorrect allegations, at least which I have noticed, which is. The first is to collect, annually collect 19 and a half billion kuna contributions for retirement. Which is not true. 24 and a half, up to 25 billion contributions, but 5 billion contributions go to the second pillar, we can't ignore that fact that it's not a contribution. It's a contribution, and you should call it his name. He's not available to pay off his pension, but it's a contribution. And secondly, it's not true that very few people have retired with a lot of internships, because 25% of our pensioners, according to all the regulations, have completed a full-time job. It was a 35-year internship for women and 40 for men. So we can't say it's an extremely small number, and we have 27% of people with disabilities, we have 22% of family pensions, and the rest are privileged, proportionate pensions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74786	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Shuker, the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74787	Well, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because a colleague of the Hrelja simply did nothing that I said incorrectly, because simply. ... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is accurate that 19 and a half billion kuna are collected from the pension contribution. That's the exact information. ... 19 and a half billion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The second pillar of retirement is something else, and according to him, some, future pensioners, will exercise the right to retire. I was talking about what was going on in 2010. And the other thing, Mr. Hrelja, in no word did I mention the structure of Croatian pensioners, therefore you cannot use the institute correction... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74788	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. And it's the SDP club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74789	Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let's try this material first to run data on the macroeconomic environment in 2010, and then we see that we have a continued decline in gross domestic product by 1.2%, that we have a continuing decline in industrial production of 1.4, trade 1.8, that we also have a decline in construction activities, that unfortunately we have a significant increase and registered unemployment, that we also have a significant decline in the number of employees. They're all... In 2010 which clearly speak the crisis in the Republic of Croatia continued since 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state budget document primarily serves to manage economic policies or economic policy serves the government's policy to influence movements in the macro-environment. So we knew about the tragedy in 2009, because we weren't ready in 2008, we underestimated the situation in 2008 and there was an explosion in 2009, the same government, the same people were responsible for the explosion in 2009. Then comes the document that we are talking about today in the state budget, which was supposed to fix that situation, which was supposed to stop the crisis, which was supposed to change the essence of all this. And I will speak in simple words, I will not speak in professional terms, the document that the Government has adopted with a series of accompanying measures, and in particular remember the government's measures for economic recovery, in particular we remember, it is also proposed to us in the Croatian Parliament with the aim of saying that this economic, economic policy, this budget will help to finally stop the economic downturn, stop people going to the stock market, increase the number of investments, increase industrial production, simply that document was talking about it. And a series of accompanying documents said that we would solve the problem of liquidity, that we would solve and charge the state budget, that it would simply be indivisibility that would solve relations between economic operators. Yes, it was the State Budget 2010 document. So I'm not going to talk about those dry stories that it's a document that other than crisis management will also mean investment in science, investing in social life, investing in development. That's about, I'd say, the hints that followed the document we're looking at today in part of his execution for the past year. And then let's remember the basic details of this budget. Changes in fiscal policy that were also meant to bring economic growth, economic development, strengthening industry, strengthening, I would say the question of investment in people's employment. Of, I would say the measures introduced a year before the higher VAT rate, I would say come last year and close the crisis tax without saying that in some way a series of measures have been adopted in a small segment. And it's in shutting down some parafiscal duties. What can we conclude now after all these measures that have been incorporated into the document? Looking at this document, we can say that the state has managed in some way to close its budget, she thought only about the basic segment of how to satisfy the users of the state budget, how to implement certain obligations towards social categories and social benefits, but at the same time this budget has completely stopped the economy. Yeah, that's the result. Therefore, the fundamental objective of macroeconomic security, the economy, did not achieve this document. Catastrophic data worsened in 2009. And that results at the end of the year with a million 360 thousand employees. A huge downfall of employees, huge. We've fallen under a million 400 thousand employees. That's the information everyone needs to worry about, everyone. It's a data that says we no longer have people who pay contributions, we no longer have people who pay taxes, we have more or less people who are at the office, we've reached almost 320 thousand unemployed, but you know, 39,000 in the last year, more and more unemployed, and 66,000 less employees. And you know where the difference is? In the pension fund, they retired early. Yeah, that's all the data that show little people do, little people attract, few people pay contributions, and more and more we have those who use it, and that's where we make the situation worse. We're making the situation completely worse, and then it's no wonder that we're reaching an enormous 14 billion deficit, that we're coming up with new responsibilities that we have to finance existing expenditures. And when we see 120 billion kuna spent last year for the needs of Croatian society, and that, it seems to me, 6.6 billion direct subsidies, and about 5 billion is some kind of support where it could be said that something went wrong in the economy, we see that it was completely insufficient for the economy to respond to positive results. Therefore, a budget showing the government's responsibility to maintain the financial discipline of state budget users, but irresponsible because no segment has turned towards the economy and tried to address the crisis in the economy. And it's visible from an existing document. Can we in this way simply financially care for users, raise VAT rates, raise and retain existing burdens that simply in no segment of the economy encourage investment. That we have a huge burden of work, not with net pay, but with health contributions that make them uncompetitive and where we come out with such pay to be competitive Europe we don't have. At the same time in last year, energy showed all its weaknesses, the high price of oil products is not on time and we went too little to cut the excise duty because it was necessary for deficits in the state budget. Therefore, we do not have a excise policy in the function of economy and competitiveness but vice versa in the function of charging the budget. Also, what's our problem? High electricity prices and high gas prices. And we essentially assume labour prices, energy prices and I would say parts of the liabilities transferred to the state given the huge parafiscal burdens of our economy we have uncompetitive. And in this crisis, we didn't deal with it. The government's special failure is in part complete, I would say ineffectiveness in raising liquidity and carrying out payment obligations. 37 billion unpaid accounts over the past year show about, I would say an unsustainable situation that threatens and any good entity that can still do something, whether on the domestic market or on the foreign market. But the complete uncertainty, the complete absence, I would say through this document how to solve these problems, show that the businessmen remain alone. And that's why the result in front of us is the declines in all segments that talk about production. A positive segment that we can talk about, which is the result again, I would say unsettled situations, is a decline in imports and a certain growth in exports. That's, I'd say, the positive elements that we can read in this macroeconomic environment. Does a document that essentially shows what the government did last year get a passing grade, is that the document that we adopted? When we look at what the opening words of the presentation were, both the prime minister and the minister who presented us with this document, which will be resolved, we must say that last year's budget was not in the function of stabilising the macroeconomic situation and was not in the function of the economy and the result is very high deficits. However, we also heard Mr Shuker say very clearly that the problem of deficits is also unrealised reforms and it is evident that the high expenditures resulting from poor government policy, which means policies to reduce the number of employees, strengthen pensioners, increase the number of pensioners, are all elements that show that we will not be able to control social expenditure in the coming years. And what we need if we don't want to repeat the mistake, now take seriously the basic data, under a million 400 thousand employees, over a million 200 thousand pensioners, over or close to 300 thousand if the last data is 298, 300 thousand unemployed, which means that we have a category of budget users that contributes more than those who contribute. At the same time worrying policies, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends a profit message, even though they had 1% of their shares and profits in the last year to invest in the state budget with 50%. Are these investment, investment, job openings? No, they're not. It is again in the function of how to satisfy social giving, how to satisfy huge expenditure without talking about the necessary reforms. DA deinvestment and spending are messages that follow companies according to accounts ended last year that are now under way. At the same time alarming data, we will have more losses than we get for last year in companies, thus reducing income from profit tax, we will have such problems for budgeting in 2011. This is why the SDP Club says with the 2010 budget, the government has not achieved a single target for macroeconomic stability, we accept that it has managed to pay off social contributions and expenditures from the state budget with a very large deficit, but the economy in the fight against the crisis has not helped a single move from the state budget. And when it comes to the revision, conditional opinion, we here in the Parliament often pass on conditional opinions and politicize about it, I agree with that, the problem is to give guarantees and we don't have a law on execution of space anymore for it or vice versa, the interest is too large so we don't have room in the budget law. But we still have to understand, all of this could have come to the Parliament even if it was a month late. However, the document of the Budget Law and the Law on the implementation of the budget is the document of this Parliament. And every excess and everything that happens, we discuss in this House, not that the Audition teaches us a lesson that we have a conditional opinion and because of what we have failed to inform the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74790	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74791	Thank you very much. So, there would be a lot of things that can be justified correct. First of all, when we talk about the indivisibility of our colleague Linic, we first have to figure out what indifference is about the budget, and I think it would be correct to tell us that budget expenditures are paid on time, because of correctness. About the 37 billion there we will always agree that 67% of companies without one employee is something other than the problem, but here we are talking about the implementation of the state budget is not true that it did not help the economy only through HBOR was placed 2.5 billion kuna, and when it comes to the level of the deficit, I purposely said in my debate without intending to call that at some times when it was a completely different economic situation, the nominal deficit was 12 and some billion kuna, and now it is 14. That was 12 and another thing on 80 billion kunas of budget and now 14 to 121 billion kunas of budget. So, just for the record, for the facts, because I think there's some things that if it were discussed and compared, I think there's something. However, the logical thing is that you speak as you say. And finally one thing, let's not say that Croatia has a high energy price that is simply not true. Croatia has the lowest electricity and gas price in the entire environment we can say in the European Union, but that is the problem of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74792	HDSSB representative club Mr. Denko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74793	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, my fellow Members and colleagues. At the end of last year's discussion on the 2011 State Budget Proposal, the HDSSB Representatives Club pointed to reasons why this Budget Proposal was not acceptable to us. We then cited two basic groups of reasons, regionally unacceptable and generally unacceptable reasons. Today, we have before us a proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and although it is indeed abundant material, a careful analysis of its individual parts shows that the amounts confirm the justification of our observations made in the adoption of this year's budget. This annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 shows that our remarks from 6 months ago were more than justifiable and that it was a continued bad policy of this Government of the Republic of Croatia. And today, unfortunately, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I must conclude that there are still at least two groups of reasons why we must show dissatisfaction with what can be read from this report and these are once again regional and general national unacceptable reasons. Let's start in order, the regionally unacceptable reasons I have already spoken here in the Croatian Assembly on behalf of the HDSSB Club about the maternal relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja. We have pointed to the unsustainable government's end-of-the-line relationship which accounts for 20% of the population's territory returns from the budget, so it doesn't give, but returns at least 20% just from 4.5% to 8% of the state budget. We also pointed out the incredible fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in that economic recovery plan presented through 30 projects worth almost 13 billion euros has forgotten again about Slavonia and Branje, predicting for it only that Channel Danube-Sava project, which makes only 6.8% of all these planned investments. The total expenditure of the state budget provides for the position of capital investments in current and capital aids of slightly more than €7.14 billion, and when it comes to an even distribution of funds, this would mean that for 5 Slavonsko-Baranja Countys, 20% should come and slightly more than a billion kunas. And for 5 Slavonsko-Baranja Countys, a little more than 356 million kuna or 5% instead of 20% are foreseen. I quote all of this because we wanted to justifiably point to the unbalanced status of Slavonia and Reading compared to the rest of the Republic of Croatia, hoping that such a relationship with Slavonia and Baranja would stop. On the contrary, we have also witnessed the presentation of new government projects worth almost $12.8 billion worth of economic investment in which only 2 projects in Slavonski Brod were planned for all Slavonia and Branje, or a total of 350 million, respectively, amounting to nothing less than a little less than 2.8%. Although we nominated a 271 project worth 2.38 billion kuna in 2010 alone from Osijek-Baranja County and invested 42 amendments on the draft budget worth 2.51 billion kuna and 3 amendments to the budget rebalance worth 308 million kuna, all proposals were rejected. Analyzing today's report on the implementation of the 2010 budget, we can't take back the impression of bitterness that leaves what we can see from it. Here's an example that speaks for itself. A part of the report on state guarantees and State guarantees in 2010 shows that during last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia issued 30 state guarantees in total amounting to just over 9.6 billion kuna. I'll remind you how it's written in the very text of the issue of state guarantees. Therefore, "financial State guarantees are issued to support capital investment in development which improves the general conditions of economic action affecting the export impact, the implementation of priority programmes, insurance of economic stability or the mitigation of the economic indevelopment of a particular area". So it's a function of issuing state guarantees. Now, of these 30 state guarantees from this report are to see that state guarantees are mostly issued for the duties of shipyards and for the CROMAC, Croatian highways, the Luka Administrations Sibenik, Zadar and Dubrovnik, the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, HEP, Croatian Railways, Croatian Waters and has one company from Slavonia and Branje it is Đuro Đaković d.d. If we analyse this data in the shipbuilding sector in 2010, state guarantees amounting to nearly three billion kuna, i.e. 2.984 million kuna. For HAC's debt almost the same, for Croatian roads a billion 440 million kuna, HEP a little less than 725 million kuna, and for the sole company that received the guarantee from Slavonia and Branje, Đura Đaković just over 105 million kuna. So 31% of all state guarantees issued for shipbuilding, and for Đuro Đakovic the only company from Slavonia and Baranja 1,1% or less of all state guarantees were issued. Shipyards especially stress this need and must be helped. No one in their right mind is against it. Every job in Croatia is of indescribable importance. But shouldn't companies in Slavonia and Baranja also be helped? I ask questions where they are in the eyes of this government of the Republic of Croatia? Does anyone really think that the economic situation in Slavonia and Baranja is so good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia thinks we do not need help, and all indicators show that we are the end, that the region of Slavonia and Baranja is the poorest part of the Republic of Croatia because the last three places on the scale of Croatian counties' development are held by Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požega-Slavon County. And Slavonia and Branja therefore her county, the companies in her area here in this report when it comes to state guarantees except Djura Djakovic is gone. Shipbuilding and agriculture are both strategic branches of the Croatian economy, but unfortunately only on paper. And for this Government of the Republic of Croatia, agriculture which is the strategic branch of Slavonia and Baranja must be recognised is in the seal because no state guarantee has been issued for the area of agriculture. Is it any wonder, then, that the year-long host of the World Cup will be Biograd at sea, not some place, municipality or city in Slavonia and Baranja? Equally interesting is the situation with regard to the 2010 review of the guarantees paid. Last year, the Republic of Croatia paid a little less than a billion and 100 million kuna, a billion 99, 263, 348, 32 kn. of which, 10 million 255 thousand were paid for the economy for shipbuilding slightly more than 772 million kuna, for transport of nearly 170 million kuna, for tourism nearly 115 million kuna, for local self-government I am talking about the guarantees paid, 3.7 million kuna, and for agriculture 28.6 million kuna. The numbering looks like this, 70.2% of all state guarantees paid for the shipbuilding guarantees last year, 15.4% for transport, a little less than 10.5% for tourism, and only 2.6% for agriculture. And agriculture is the strategic branch of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja. And we're really not looking for anything that doesn't belong to us, we're just looking for what we've earned and we're doing business in a joint cash register called the state budget. And I'm going to mention briefly more general national unacceptable reasons. Under the conditions of the total crisis, it is understandable and expected, I reiterate this, in every period of the proposal of the new and old state budget, and everyone we bring, we find savings, it is quite understandable. The burden of crisis should be borne by all, it is the basic premise we hear from the rulings almost every day and we agree with it. For example, among those invited to contribute to austerity measures were found understandable. and Croatian defenders. Thus, the proposal for this year's budget provides for a reduction in expenditure of nearly 115 million kuna. But shouldn't we all bear the burden of crisis and savings equally? And I repeat again, I stress, is it possible that in Croatia there is again someone who wants and has the right to be more equal than others? I'm going to give an example from this report to see when it comes to spending the budget stock. At a time when it had to be saved, and everyone had to take off very easily, you find it very easy to find that the Croatian government at its sessions, so by its decision, and it made them in total if I counted 89 well last year, from 18 January to 31 December, gave the joint council of Vukovar municipalities four times 350 thousand kuna, i.e. one million and 400 thousand kuna. That she gave the Serbian National Council for the Development of Serbian National Community institutions four times, so 4.8 million kuna. So, for the Serbian National Community and for their needs, 6.2 million kuna, and the total distribution of the government of the Republic of Croatia's budget stock last year was slightly more than 63 million kuna. 10% or more specifically 9.8% of all funds were allocated by the government to the Serbian National Council, the joint council of municipalities, at its mostly closed sessions. In times of severe crisis, we believe that this is at least not fair to all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is also known that the Joint Council of Vukovar does not have legal personality but is still registered and works as an association. Care, protection and development of the rights of members of all national minorities certainly yes, but not at the expense and damage of all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to the harm of Croatian defenders and the entire Croatian national being. Or someone thinks this is also constitutional equality in the Croatian way. This report, therefore, is not acceptable for the HDSSB club, we want to learn lessons from this report, but also from observations that come continuously from the ranks not only of our club but from the opposition when it comes to a more even and evener distribution of what we have. If we have a little bit and we share it a little bit in a way that everybody's happy and they get what's rightfully theirs. I only have to finally express my regret that this important item of the agenda is what it is and the debate on the report, the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget for the past year is debated here in front of the half-empty assembly, that we are discussing at a time when the light of the public is not so focused on this important item of the agenda, and in particular I must admit that I am surprised that in the ranks of the ruling HDZ so few MPs on such an important item of the agenda. I know that today is the birthday of your recently beloved leader and that perhaps many are visiting or writing congratulations to Eve Sanader, but such an important item of the agenda should all be commented here in the Croatian Parliament together. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74794	Okay, now that this birthday celebration is quieted down, the birthday party is in the hall, the speakers are speaking in the same voice.... My colleagues, Ingrid, please don't stop your colleague, Korakevic. Comrade Ingrid, don't stop your colleague Stepajevic in his campaign at the pay phone. ... The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Both the debate on the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the discussion on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia are mostly the same from year to year, which is not surprising, since budget items are also identical except figures, since the way the budget is planned, the way the budget is implemented from year to year is completely identical. And certainly that one refreshment called a state audit after seven years, seven budgets made in the mandate of one party or a coalition of parties is one refreshment, but this refreshment ultimately brings nothing to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. One constant of all current budgets, especially budget executions, and something similar today we have had the opportunity to hear, which is that state finances pay regular salaries, pay regular pensions, and everything that was wrong or mostly all that was wrong is from time or fault from the time of Racan's government and these 8 years or 7 years simply couldn't change anything despite the parliamentary majority present in this Croatian assembly from 2003 to the day of today. It's just a constant, that's what we heard today. So the 2010 budget, the plan was 112, the plan was to make 112 billion and spend 122 billion, and then there was a rebalance that we were planning to make 108 billion, and to spend still 122 billion or 14 billion kuna of the budget deficit. And that math to every responsible household is an enigma, but every responsible household runs away from such mathematics because how to accept mathematics to earn 108 things, and you're spending 122 things. Very difficult. Or if it is accepted then that mathematics has its own deficit that stems from this mathematics, however, the key issue is where the deficit is spent. According to all these budgets so far, budget executions are facts and the overall state of the economy, and what is the overall situation since at the end of the second term of the government, that at the end of 2003 the liquidity was 12.8 billion, that at the end of 2010, the liquidity was 29 billion. At the end of 2003, it was 12.8 at the end of 2010. 29 billion, that in 2003 we had a decline in gross social product or gross national product in '99. 0,9 and 2000. 3% and 2001 plus 3.8 and 2002 plus 5.4 and 2003 stabilized to plus 5. It was the starting position of the HDZ government. From that starting position in 2009, we have a decline of 5.8 and 2010 minus 1.2. This is the past work of a government that has managed this state for 8 years and has been proposed for 8 years to the Croatian Assembly of State Budget and 8 years to adopt the state budget and 8 years the parliamentary majority accepts the implementation of the state budget. Is the deficit spent on development? It's not. Was the deficit spent or spent on projects? It's not. Is the deficit spent in economic recovery? It's not. The deficit is literally eaten. However, there is something that is evident, which is that wages in the public and state sectors have increased 50% since 2003. From 2003 to today, they have grown 50%. How much did the real sector pay go up? How many people are left to work because they lost their jobs in the real sector, and how many people lost their jobs or didn't have to work in the public and state sectors, which is also the result of the budget. Thanks to this budget, the conduct of this policy practically has two Croatians. One Croatia called the state sector and another state called the real sector. And we at the Croatian People's Party club, we warn the Croatian pensioners again and when we warn, we say no newspapers. Something everyone knows, which everyone knows, that all government advisors, with their proposal, come from that very fundamental thing, which is the economy. Because from this implementation of the budget, the implementation of the 2010 budget reaffirms one constant, which is that the Government is simply unable to devise or draw up a different budget. That the government simply cannot propose a different budget, because to propose a different budget it should have an economic strategy. What's our economic strategy? What economic branches in this country can create a new value, a new added value? Is that agriculture? It's familiar. Over 30 billion have gone to agricultural budget money. The total agricultural production is 20% lower. Is that tourism? Is that shipbuilding? We heard it wasn't. Is it energy? Not known. I mean anything. Therefore, in order to have an excessive budget, to have a budget that enables all of us, one development option normally needs an economic strategy, we need a completely different economic policy that would then have its elements in the budget but certainly not that type, but a completely different one. Therefore, by reading this budget, the implementation of this budget and all the budgets so far is a common element that simply the Government is unable to devise and draw up and create a completely different type of budget, a budget that would provide citizens with the ability to earn, the ability to earn, the ability to create a new value of the budget that would give us all an opportunity, a development opportunity. The fact that there's been a lot of shouting, but that's just what a modernist at one time good monetary policy is, in another time, a bad monetary policy. At some point it's like a good tax policy, at some point it's a bad tax policy. But given the overall situation in the economy, we have, all these years, a poor monetary and poor tax policy at the expense of the real sector, to the detriment of those who create a new value, especially the export industry. We haven't been able to find a model in all these years, a model to make up for something they're losing, not their own guilt. And that's the mission of the state budget. We at the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian People's Party simply don't see any more motives of discussion about the implementation of the state budget, because despite all our proposals, despite all the elements that we have observed, which we have warned about in the adoption of the budget and we from the HNS, HSU and colleagues from the SDP all these years, for 8 years we have warned, IDS also, for 8 years we have warned, and IDS colleagues, so, 8 years we have listened to the same thing, and you listen to the sumarum today and through employment, through growth of the economy, through liquidity, through the overall state of the economy, suma sumarum. The club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People cannot, this document cannot be supported either because of access, nor because of taking account of the essential needs and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I will mention again, as in many discussions so far, the greatest potential for the citizens of this Croatia is the elections as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74796	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74797	It is incorrect that anyone from HDZ has accused the government of the late Ivica Racan of anything in this report. It's simply incorrect. The second thing, when you compare the data, you have to try to equate them methodically, and that's incorrect, you have two documents adopted by this House. One is the Law on Achieved and Unpaid Claims 2002, which refers to 24 billion outstanding claims, and you're saying that in 2003 there were 10.3 billion... The funds, and I'm sure in that 10.3 billion is not the 2 billion and 400 that is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] unpaid in Croatian highways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74798	An individual debate, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74799	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Madam Minister with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. All the years of the current mandate, the government has continuously created, and the majority of Parliament has adopted and adopted, the budgets that were based on borrowing and the allocation of the electoral body through the preservation of social peace, and this 2010 budget we are talking about today is no exception to such practice, so it is actually a typical instrument of the current government. Unfortunately, the result of such a policy and such a budget is a general contraction of economic activity for which unfortunately this government has no solution. I'll take a picture of Croatia being stuck in reverse. We are still going backwards, i.e. we are still going down, although the Prime Minister here on a daily basis assures us that Croatia is coming out of the crisis, and its strongest argument is that the rates of economic decline are getting lower and less and less. In her words, it turns out that the slowdown of the fall is actually in Croatian circumstances the good news that it is progress. And that would really, we could say, be funny if it wasn't tragic. I will remind you that the positive economic growth rate was last recorded in the pre-crisis 2008 and was 2.4% then 6% in 2009, so my colleague Koračević said 5.8, but after harmonising with the EUROSTAT methodology, the decline was 6%, and in 2010, we had a further decline of 1.2% or only 1.2%, as our Prime Minister said. In other words, the cumulative decline, the economic downturn in the last two years is actually 10% compared to 2008, so a tenth of the budget is lost and that is about 30 billion kuna. So behind us are two completely lost years, and the economy is currently at a level below 2006. What is more dramatic in the whole story is the fact that the economic downturn continues in the first quarter of 2011 at a rate of 0.9% which is even slightly higher than in the last quarter of 2010 when it was 0.6%. And due to such developments, in the first three months of this year, the Croatian National Bank has reduced the projected, or planned, estimated rate of growth of the 2011 gross domestic product from the original 1.4 to 1%, and in recent weeks the same estimates have adjusted to the lower and most important international institutions, starting from the International Monetary Fund, through the European Commission, to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So 9 quarters consecutively Croatia recorded a decline in gross domestic product, with the exception of the third quarter of 2010 when it was reported for the positive impact of the tourist season growth of 0.2%, however this is still at statistical error level. At the same time, I will say the European Union, as a whole in the first quarter of 2011, records economic growth on average of 2 and a half percent, and only two of its members, namely Greece and Portugal, have negative growth rates. Of course, Croatia cannot be compared to one Germany that records a real economic takeoff, but with those countries with which it can be compared, such as Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and the country already has positive growth rates several quarters back. And I think it is a very unpleasant fact for us that small, therefore small, yet positive economic growth rates also record the country from our most indirect environment, so Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Macedonia. There is no recovery in Croatia, because there is no production on which the recovery would be based. And such a hard-core congestion of the Croatian economy in the zone of negative growth, while other national economies are showing positive growth, is the best confirmation of what we are constantly talking about, that this hopeless situation is only partly the result of the crisis, and to a much greater extent it is the culmination of the long-term bad economic structure, which has not changed in years behind us, so in years when we have much more affordable and much cheaper capital at our disposal. It is extremely bad that the continued decline in the primary economic activities, so industrial production fell 1.4%, after it dropped as much as 9.2% in 2009, the retail trade dropped 1.8% with a decline of as much as 15.3% in 2009, construction is literally on its knees, and unfortunately there is no hope for any significant recovery of this important economic activity confirms that there is no investment. Investments are down 11.3%. Almost entirely, direct foreign investment has stopped, domestic private entrepreneurs do not invest, and because of the poor situation in the budgets, there is unfortunately no public investment from that local to the state level. And speaking of that local level, then I have to stress one heavy consequence of the current tax policy of this government, which is that local and regional self-government are literally on their knees. The municipalities and cities, and in particular the counties literally live off decentralised funds, i.e. from transfusions from the state budget. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the results of Croatian entrepreneurs in 2010 in the context of the fact that income from profit tax as one important income item in the state budget, so these revenues in 2010 have been reduced by as much as 32%, so by a third. In fact, I would like to say that the entrepreneurs in 2010 paid the advances of that profit tax on the basis of the financial result achieved in 2009. I remind you that in 2009, the consolidated financial result of the Croatian economy was positive. It was 1.7, and 2.4 billion kuna, respectively. In 2010, the consolidated financial result of the Croatian economy is negative. Thus, the loss was achieved as the difference between profits and the loss of companies of 1.7 billion kuna. The 28-billion-dollar gain was made by 55,541 entrepreneurs while the losses of €30 billion showed 41,217 entrepreneurs. I only remind you that for the last time, entrepreneurs made a loss at the annual level of 2000, with an amount of 838 million kuna. So it's twice as much as it was in 2010. Therefore, if the revenue from the profit tax is in the State budget for 2010. 32% lower than they were in 2009 with the economy being positive in 2009, so the profit achieved is just what the decline of these revenues will be, so profit tax revenues, in 2011 precisely given the fact that in 2010, the Croatian economy ended up with a negative financial result, therefore by a loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74800	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to correct a colleague who mentions the government's adjudication that it's the main policy. I don't know what she meant, obviously it's not, that it's absolutely incorrect, unless she was referring to handing out guarantees to the bailiffs, to court pensioners for 15.5 billion kunas added to pensions, courtship to defenders and so forth. But let him look at still not so long ago the history of the SDP government there when it was a courtship to say Radiir Cacic to his own companies for 400 million dollars of state money, when there was a courtship to Stroke giving him hotels, when there was a courtship to the Supreme, giving him 100 million kuna so that the government would ride on his yacht. So, then we're really going to talk about courtship or the notion of courtship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74802	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74803	Mr. Vice President, article 209 was injured, you should have warned Mr. Markovanovic not to tell the truth and given a warning. Mr. Markovanovic, although he has a series of documents... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74804	All right, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74805	I'm talking about Article 209's injury. ... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74806	It is not considered, counterpart Linic is not considered a breach of the Rules of Procedure. One was the claim by representative Nadica Jelas, the other counterclaimed by representative Markovinović... You can't talk and throw that something's a lie or something. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nothing is documented, it's one claim, and the other is a counterclaim. ... We've got double standards again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Once we have for ourselves, another time for others. If it's said for someone to correct an incorrect quote, then it's claimed to be a lie, if it's correct for another, then it's claimed that it's an exact assumption, that it's true and that it's false. The infringement of the Rules of Procedure does not correct incorrect allegations and incorrect claims. ... So, there's no colleague of Linic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74807	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I refer to Article 209 of the injury, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part. Because you claim here in the Croatian Parliament that there is no document, and all MPs have received the opinion and attitude of the State's Attorney's Office on the guilt or responsibility of Mr. Radomer Cacic, and about the time he was Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you yourself. Therefore, you deceive representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, and you received this document as well as all other representatives in the Croatian Parliament. That's what I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74808	You have the right to think that, but you're wrong to think that. I didn't claim it at all, you heard it, I didn't claim any document that I saw it, got it or anything else. You need to concentrate a little more carefully and then react in line with what you really heard, not what you are expected to hear. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74809	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The movement of income and thus the expenditure of the state budget in 2010... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74810	Please don't throw me a colleague, Linic. You can't, you're not the judge to tell someone he's lying. ... Well, you can't talk, you can't talk. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, because you can't say that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What kind of insult is that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What kind of a fellow Linic insult is that? I warn you, I warn you, that you insult a representative. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. You can't insult a representative and tell him a lie. It would be your respect for the Businessman, respecting the Businessman to tolerate you from telling a representative that he's lying. ... My colleague Linic, I give you a warning because of the repeated insult of the MPs. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Where you're from, judge, that you'll claim someone's lying. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when he says it back to you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm judging. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's your opinion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you can take offense through your opinion. You think it's your right. ... It's not an insult. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You won't be waiting, I won't please you, because it's obvious that you are sometimes in such a mood. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As far as I can tell, you're well armed with these types of weapons. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're already armed with one of the verbal weapons. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult for Croatian citizens and the Croatian public to pass on a good and positive picture of representatives in the Croatian Parliament while we have representatives who behave and react in this way. We will normally try to continue in a decent, cultural, civilized tone of debate and activities in the Croatian Parliament, and I hope that Croatian citizens will recognise normal MPs in the future, so this is an opportunity in the next parliamentary elections. The movement of income and expenditure in our 2010 budget is definitely a reflection of both the overall economic crisis in Europe and the world, definitely under the influence of the further downturn in economic activity in our country, the further decline in 2010 and the gross domestic product of 1.2%, the 13% drop in investment, and ultimately an increase in unemployment of 15%. These are facts that should not be avoided, these are facts that are shown in a total of 474 pages with a whole set of valuable and detailed data. Annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 of which 974 p.m. the accounts of the reasons for the budget users. And for the first time, this report also contains a report on the audit carried out. Indeed a comprehensive report on state budget developments in 2010. A few words about revenues made in total amounting to € 107.8 billion, which is 2.8 billion less than in 2009. The basic characteristics of income are related to the abolition of the crisis tax in the past year, the increase in income from taxes compared to 2009 by 2% and 14% from income tax. These are important specifics affecting the 2010 revenue, and it is clear that the legislation also led to a reduction in income with the objectives we are witnessing whether or not they were achieved in 2010. The expenditures had an increase of €1 billion, 700 million and amounted to €121 billion. This is an increase compared to 2009 of 1.7 billion, yet it is 0.4% less than the plan. As a result, there has been an increase in expenditures, we have heard already in the reasons and Ms Minister and HDZ MPs. It is mainly due to the funds provided for the regular payment of pensions, maternity benefits, maternity benefits totalling 886 million kuna, which should also be added to unemployment benefits, and interest on loans of EUR 100 million. It should be pointed out that on certain items expenditure is reduced. Reduced employee expenditure, reduced material expenditure, for travel, intellectual services, subsidies, and all in line with the guidelines of the economic recovery programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia last year. Fortunately for all incomes achieved and this increase in expenditure was provided neat payments and salaries to civil servants, an orderly payment of pensions for a million and 100 thousand pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, payment of maternity benefits, payment of benefits to the unemployed, which says the 2010 budget kept the social sensitivity component. And all these categories that are in the particular needs of our citizens have not felt the economic problems that have definitely hit our country. The budget deficit of 14 billion, and the deficit of the total country in total 4.5% is also lower by 0.3% of the plan. And the average deficit in EU countries, EU 27, is 6.4%. Here is when we like to compare ourselves with others, and we heard comparisons and just before in the debate, we should say compared to our 4.5% deficit, for example, the UK recorded a 10.4% deficit. Slovakia recorded a 7.9% deficit, that Portugal recorded a deficit in the past year of 9.2%, that Poland recorded a 7.9% deficit, so that we don't talk about Ireland 32%, Greece 10%, Spain's 9% minus, France 7%, etc. etc. And these countries, unfortunately, also record increases in the unemployed, means that the deficit definitely did not in their case cause an increase in employment and economic activity, but also ensured the deficit in our country's budget in the last year the orderly payment of the rights of the most sensitive social categories of our population, in the first place means those who, in need and the pensioners who participate in a large amount in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here is so much to do with the comments of the execution, the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year of course I accept, and I will remind you that during the adoption of rebalancing during the last year, we have had the opportunity to hear announcements that the budget, of course, will not survive, that the budget will cause a revolt among employees who receive salaries from the state budget, civil servants, tenants. These were the wishes of the opposition, but here is the wise policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all the rights, all the pensions, all the salaries in 2010 were paid, and, of course, it was expected that such behaviour would continue and the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and during 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74813	Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. To discuss today's report on the implementation of the 2010 budget is very interesting because 2010 was the year of economic recovery, at least that's how the government announced it, so it characterised and wanted it to be so. We also see that almost at all government meetings, the first item of the agenda has always been measures of economic recovery. I really wish that were the case and that was the case of economic recovery in Croatia. No matter how much I am an opposition representative, I would like it to be better in Croatia and have an economic recovery. I am not for it to be bad in Croatia so that I can criticise the government, but for myself to make it good in Croatia, so if it is necessary to commend those who work. Unfortunately, this time I don't have a chance. And what is the state of Croatia that is seen from this budget and through this budget, I will speak in numbers so that there will be no false words again. So I'm going to talk about what's absolutely true and clear. What was the economic recovery of the past year, such that in the last year we had a decrease in gross social product by 1.2% compared to the year in which we had a decline of almost 6%, so from 2009 which was extremely bad, the worst since the Republic of Croatia as regards the growth of the social gross product. We had a fall last year in relation to her. This is the result of the government's economic recovery. Industrial production fell by 1.4% compared to that reference pre-2009 that was said and in that segment again bad, then we had a drop of 9.2%. So again in 2010 we fell even more. We've got a low-sale drop in the construction sector so I don't speak about 16%, etc. He was unemployed in Croatia when we watch December 2010 compared to December 2009, so more unemployed for 28300 or 9.7% so almost 10% more unemployed. This is the situation in 2010 that has been the government for years of economic recovery, and the results are what they are. Not to mention further, the foreign debt on record is nearly 46 billion, 45.8 billion euros, almost equalised with the gross social product in that year and most importantly increased last year, so in 2010, by 1.2 billion euros, the total debt. But the debt of the central state for which the state is absolutely and 100% responsible is also recordable and it is 136 billion kuna and higher by 17%, by 20 billion kuna more than in 2009. These are therefore the results of the economic policy which has also been implemented through this budget and which has been manifested through it. Of course, this kind of economic situation has had direct consequences on the budget, and then when you don't have enough money in the budget, then you're in debt, and that's why last year we have a record deficit of 14.5 billion kuna. As far as the report itself is concerned, it's technically well done, there's nothing to add, so the people who worked on it tried to make it, that there's really a lot of data, all right. It is not just a matter of the report, but of the issue of the overall economic policy which has been led and how this situation has been reflected in the budget. So it was spent even more last year than it was, more than it was earned in the budget, 14.5 billion, so much deficit last year. He wouldn't be a problem in himself, alone as a size if he spent on production, in new development, in creating a new value, but unfortunately that deficit was spent on consumption. It's once and it's spent. Someone will say that some results are better than in 2009. Yeah, some of them did, but most of them didn't. The most important thing I said was, unemployment bigger, social gross product smaller, debt bigger, etc. And last year we ended up together with Romania at the start of Europe, and we had together with Romania the worst or smallest rate, or a negative rate of growth. We are all in order to be better pensions, bigger, more money for health, social, better education, science, investment, etc., but in order to be more employed, those who are employed must receive their salaries and regularly and must be better in the economy. And unfortunately, that is not the case with us, and as long as there is no more employees, better economic development and faster economic development will not be enough in the budget for anything or for anyone. And we are developing not to have a faster than we have at all, so we had a decline last year compared to 2009 and three years constantly Croatia tonnes. It's not even stagniating, it's sinking. We in the SDP, and here in this House, have made certain proposals for us constructively and in time for some things to improve or reflect positively on both the budget and economic growth. I'll just remind you of some. We told and gave the legal procedure of the law not to tax the profits that are reinvested and the ones that are held back, the ones that remain as retained profits. Because if these money stays in companies, not to be taxed, and not to be treated just as much as the one that the entrepreneur takes and puts in his pocket, draws as a profit. Because that money is invested in new development, paying suppliers, etc. It didn't pass. The ruling majority and government have not accepted this, and there is no development without investments, there is no investment without funds or crafts. If there are no trades, then credits, and credits are expensive. For these loans, it can be difficult to develop. And that's where we put it in the proposal, the legal procedure of the High Interest Tax Act. Unfortunately, that didn't go away either. So clearly through this budget there was a certain government policy whose results are as we see them, so bad and they are unfortunately bad. Obviously, this budget has served not to move Croatia towards economic recovery and exit from the crisis, but to maintain a coalition existing in power last year, and it seems this year, and it looks like it will take almost the end of this year. It is not a problem when the state is in debt and invests in development, infrastructure, energy or other aspects that are very important to the state. I'm talking about energy here because it's very important. Because first of all, when it comes to investment, it's mostly domestic companies. So it's an indirect incentive to the economy. Energy is the base of development, and on the other hand, energy will be increasingly expensive. Therefore, it is necessary to invest in infrastructure, in energy, and therefore to be in debt rather than in debt for once and for all to be spent as it seemed for us. So the budget was like that. It was a reflection of a certain economic policy that we see as bad, which unfortunately did not produce results in terms of economic recovery. Unfortunately, this year too, the economic policy seems to continue, and it is likely that this year will end as well. We made certain suggestions, suggestions on how to help. You wouldn't listen to us. The results are what they are. They're bad, and as the folk says, "how you sow and reap." So the results of economic policy are as we see in the budget bad because it was a bad economic policy. And unfortunately, we don't see the strength or the will to change today, and obviously it's going to take some other political force that's going to start changing, and this is obviously leading us deeper into the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74815	Thank you. At 16,36, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's quite an interesting debate. It is well colored with a large dose and politics, which is probably an integral part of the struggle in the assembly. And since a lot of things have already been said for the better part about how it's been moving completely how the economy is social, this year I'm not going to repeat all these numbers because I don't think there's a need. But it may look a little bit at the current course of the debate, and maybe give a look at the time we're in, and then where the on-call thinking comes from. It is clear when we talk about the 2010 budget behind us and when we look at the policy that it is primarily a reflection of both the economic movements in Croatia and the great and good part of the world. But interestingly, in daily politics when something suits us then there are businessmen or economies that are hard to deal with, but very often there are tycoons that cheat exclusively on the Croatian state, people. So also when it comes to citizens and all those funds from the budget that go to citizens at some point, they are citizens that this government doesn't care about a bit, and on the other hand they are citizens, that is to say, voters who are being elected by HDZ or by the state-run authority. So, as it suits us at a given moment, it suits us in the daily-political connotation, we comment on and determine our feelings, the separation from the state budget for individual segments of society, and above all, as is the matter of welfare, health, pension funds, which are well and largely affected today, and which bear a large and good part of the budget. And when it suits us then we say that the salaries in the state sector have increased by 50%, but we don't mention what the salaries are and we don't mention that other fact that a lot of quality personnel are just out of that state administration and leaving because the salaries are low compared to some other possible sources of profit or in the economy or in some other institutions. And the state administration keeps fighting and dealing with the problem all the time. When we talk about segments that have fallen significantly, which are difficult, and that is true and above all construction, then again for daily political purposes, the tycoons are the tycoons that have earned big money. And on the other hand, it's clear that this moment is difficult because construction is the most affected. But it should also be said that the construction of the past period has dealt with everything and everything and waiters and chefs and those who had nothing to do with the construction but who at some point felt the need and felt good and possible profit related to the sector and unfortunately and with objective problems but also for subjective reasons came into trouble. The question is in 2010, if she's a crisis at the end, if she's in the middle. I can say, and therefore perhaps in part and in 2011, although it is about the 2010 budget and its execution but perhaps a little bit of optimism in the year that was behind us and this one that came that after 14,15, 16 months in which our city's income tax budgets fell after 14,15 months this month behind us was the first month in which in my city tax register tax income rose and increased after x months behind it. Also, after a few months or a year, for a year and a half, real estate tax has increased, which means that it has finally relived one part and re-traded real estate if we exempt those that are speculative nature from further development and, as such, we certainly support it. We should also say that when we talk about loans as one of the main reasons whether entrepreneurs invest or not, they themselves are a very important segment of investment and total investment, but it is not only because other than credit and various institutional conditions and frameworks are either the basis for development, and when it comes to loans themselves, we are witnessing that other than the state-subsidised interest with respect to the interest rates that banks have in Croatia today, that both the state and the competent ministries, as well as the regional units, and local self-governments are involved in co-financing of interest rates, so today in Zagreb County, therefore the interest rate to invest after all subsidies is below 5% or which percentage point millimetre above 4, which we consider to be in the Croatian frameworks are interest rates which we consider to be more than appropriate, and thus these bodies, together with the ministries, have been included in the Assembly and in the co-financing and co-finance of interest. It may be convenient to say that in the times behind us, and huge investment in municipal infrastructure, and then the policy of this government in time, so over the past years, investments along with local self-government in a large part of the municipal and business zones, after the crisis that was current, are now thanking God a little bit, and the same business zones of investors, which we think is a good sign in the time here at the beginning of 2011. In the context of the year that has passed, and which is really visible to it by its results, still as the year that was stagnation, but these few sentences that I have said in life, are related from data back to 7 to 10 days, tells us that we are on the threshold of recovery, and that in the time that follows both this and next year we expect better quality and better economic development, employment and all that is related to it. I will certainly support this year's report... the national budget for 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74817	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 showed that the government did not hold any strings in its hands, that long ago all the reins, horses rode out, ran horses and stables long ago, so in short, the government did not rule. The government does not almost rule itself, does not rule this difficult economic situation, in which it has led us to do what it has done, or not to act. Zorno is shown, in the end, it is seen from the very reason for the results of the revenue and the receipt of expenditure and expenditures behind the budget users, which the Government itself explains to us, that it has increased the deficit, that it is additionally committed to patching up the holes, and therefore can make a simple administrator, not a complete Government with all its abilities, or incompetences. So at times like this, this is the way he behaves, it can only really be this government, and don't think we've been surprised. That's exactly what we've been saying for a few years now, but just when we're warning about these things, they say we're catastrophics, but the government doesn't want any problems, it wants to show up, reduce problems, and that's the biggest problem. Because by hiding the truth, you've led us into this situation, and by demeaning the problem, by... Even though we'll get those things out of hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So such a new task on the one hand, and on the other hand, what the state audit indicates is that the state does not know or refuse to show what its claims are. The fiscal responsibility law wanted the government to show that it would be responsible, that it would call for order and units of local self-government that dared to behave irresponsiblely, and to borrow more than they were allowed, and more than they could, and more than they could. So the government did it itself, and that's the review and talking. So when the government proposed such a law, when she wanted to figure it out for others and discipline others, she had to discipline herself first. But it didn't happen. And by even being able to say about this proposal, this year's report on the implementation of the state budget? If the government were to behave, it would almost be said by some benevolent indeed Christian, by principle forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. That's the execution, the showdown of the budget, and all the elements and indicators show that this year's execution will be the same when we come next year, if not worse. So these trends show a decline in all activities, all relevant indicators say the crisis in Croatia is deepening. And that's something this government doesn't bother at all. She tried something, and when she presented those measures, then after those measures, it was even worse for us. Now that and the government, we pointed out, the government has vigorously stepped behind these measures, now almost never mention them again, almost in... No, we're not falling under some kind of parachute, we're simply in a free fall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government therefore gave up everything, watched only how to figure and how to survive in power and how to possibly spin and someone else to bribe. If that's evident, I'll show you exactly that from this explanation, the results of income and income, expenditure and the expenditure of the state budget. In fact, income from profit tax, income, property, added value, everything falls. The income from the tax on sales falls, from excise duties falling, except, therefore, it is picturesque, literally depicted what life is like in Croatia and what you have left behind and what you have condemned Croatian citizens to, that only you are growing revenue from excise duties on tobacco and alcohol. So, the increased use of alcohol is increased, and so obviously you gave this authority, obviously this power gave the citizens a nerve, and in this way it solves its problems, which the government was obliged to deal with, not on the one hand, and on the other, tax revenues and fees from games of happiness and fun games have also increased. You see where our people are, where our citizens seek comfort. In alcohol and gambling. Because they don't see any more options. A colleague, Slavko Linic, spoke of the defeating data that is the number of new pensioners. The number of employees is dropping. However, there is no need to mention the income of the contribution, even a little more, so such workloads and those who work will not be able to endure it anymore. Who will pay your taxes, your contributions? Yeah, but still the government protects the rich. And it didn't occur to her to go to that taxation that every normal country has. Get away from it like the devil from the incense. If you hadn't minded those sponsors. Costs for employees, that's interesting, they've grown. In 2009, the stake was 19.1%, and in 2010. 18.5%. A small decline, however, new employment goes. That's familiar to us, you'll even get jobs, I'll tell you in the post office specifically. So why did you leave this period until the election? You've given up everything and you're hiring people again. You employ people with inadequate qualifications besides existing experts, so jobs they are not up to, and then immediately the government directs them to education. People from the post office wrote us a letter and now you're to see what's wrong with it, with the name and place of business and the same day by referring to schooling, to schooling. And the pay already seems to have the necessary expertise. So, instead of being involved in development, that is to say, to see and to see that, in the end, and what you have picked up, and you have directed excise duties into the development of industry, into development, in general in development, education, you have patched up some of the budget holes, you are in debt, and you are happily here giving us information that here we are doing well because our imports have fallen. Our imports fell because there's no money left to import goods. But they are not covered by increased productivity and replacing their own domestic production. So you're acting the way someone would, like a dying patient, and someone's going to tell him, and he's getting better at his temperature, and he's dying, he's getting cold. There, that's your picture, that's our mess. And of course we won't support a report like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74819	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. So regardless of all the economic difficulties in which Croatia is located, regardless of what we may have in this report and face data and indicators that also encourage, but which also discourage this is the highest quality report on the implementation of the state budget that came to the Croatian Parliament in 20 years for its content, according to the structure and information we receive. It reflects all the complexity of the economic situation and also points to positive and negative economic phenomena. It clearly points to everything that has been done positively, as well as all the efforts that seem to be made to achieve the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, but also to some processes and models that require improvements, and even some alternative solutions. It is good that the negative trend in overall economic activity was mitigated in 2010 to a decline of 1.2% compared to 2009 when the decline was almost 6%. It is also good that the slowed industrial production dynamic from 9.2 in 2009 is at 1.4% in 2010. The retail trade fell even 15.3% in 2009, and in 2010, the decline was reduced to 1.8%. He's a good indicator in tourism, but he's also looking for an analysis. In 2010, there was a positive trend and an increase in international arrivals by 7%, overnight stays higher by 2.6%, and income dropped by 2.2%, respectively... The reasons for this should be analysed and solutions should be sought to make income proportional, i.e. to grow as well as the number of arrivals and overnight stays. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2010, the lowest current balance of payments deficit in the last 10 years was reached at 654m euros. Compared to 2009, the deficit was reduced by 74% even. What is well seen is also in the report that the financial year ended in the framework of the planned rebalancing, that the revenues were lower by 574 million kuna, but also the expenditures were lower by 670 million kuna so that the government budget deficit was lower by 95 million kuna than planned. A lot would be read and read from this report, but I would stress only 2 phenomena that need special attention. In fact, construction activities as one of the generators of economic growth, development and recovery are concerned that in 2010 it fell by an additional 15.9% while in 2009 it fell by 6.5%. Such an indicator requires urgent analysis and emergency response and search for a solution. The second special phenomenon is the central government debt, which at the end of 2010 was 136 billion and 20 billion, respectively, higher than in the previous year. Most of the time, although many people ignore and say they can't be saved in much, I think they can save on a lot of things. In its borrowing model, the state depends largely on the central bank's credit policy and unfortunately there is no cooperation, let alone the monetary policy as a component of national economic policy, but contributes to its measures in order to make the country more expensive. Let's just imagine the difference that was a few years ago, 7, 8 years ago when directly the Croatian National Bank financed and credited the deficit of the state budget, and today when it releases funds to business banks on which they made 0.25% of the contributions a year, and then without agreement and with advice and with the Government, these funds are placed by banks under the pretext that they will be targeted at tourism in agriculture and do not end up with banks and blackmailing just at the time when the state is in charge of an additional 145 billion kuna. It is not good and must not be in the Republic of Croatia that production is systematically neglected, and it is neglected and credit monetary policy is working to execute it. Import goods are being consumed, and everything seems to be destroyed by domestic production. And there's a consequence, without production there's no economy. Analyzing but I wouldn't now because it takes a little too much time, analysing credits and how regulatory measures are treated with individual plasmas, it's seen for the last 10 years how much it's been done to stimulate consumption, and detimizing production. Is it encouraging if the interest on the loan is 3.9%, and the interest on production and companies who want to produce something even export because the products for the foreign producer are interest 12 or 14%. With such a credit monetary policy, we cannot recover the Croatian economy as we intend. It must not be the most profitable activity of crediting the government budget deficit in the Republic of Croatia and this is definitely the most profitable and profitable business bank activity in recent years. Banks have increased their profits under these conditions of crisis and recession at the most exclusively on state and state loans paid dearly that interest. In cooperation with the finding of a model in cooperation with the National Bank of Croatia, which is an institution of the Republic of Croatia, and not the Republic of Croatia's National Bank, such models could be found to be saved at the annual level of billions and 500 million kuna on interest alone, but this cannot be achieved without its National Bank. But the National Bank has its whisperers that have no responsibility but with very high bonuses and privileges. With such whisperers, we're not going to get out of a crisis as dynamic as we can and what we could and what potential we have, it slows us down a lot. And that the state pays more expensive and what doesn't need proof is here some day, for example, that INA delivers kerosene to Croatia airlines more expensive than to foreign airlines. This was also established by the Competition Protection Agency. What should I ask the INA not to do? So let our agency learn how the agency in Serbia reacts so they can just read how many million euros have been punished by two of our companies that symbolically violated the competition in Serbia. So imagine what would happen if the Lufthansi oil company in Germany delivered more expensive than Croatia's airlines? And with us, it's like it didn't happen. The easiest thing to do is to deliver to Vlad and Croatia airlines and state-owned companies... Nothing has happened, and such phenomena need to be sanctioned vigorously so that they never think of doing such a thing again. No, they act like it's normal. It is not normal, but I hope that it will mature the time, that finally our competition protection agency will do everything to protect the development of the competition and to fight against both the oligarchy and the monopoly in the Republic of Croatia. But since I said this report is the best quality it's ever seen, of course, that I accept it and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74821	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74822	Thank you very much. I fully support your exposure mainly when it comes to what you said about the possibility of the Croatian National Bank, and further about this case, the case of selling kerosene is more expensive to our domestic airline than to foreign airlines. But what I volunteered for the replica is exactly what you said import, consumption, and destimulation of production. And this is the most and best feeling right now in the import of agricultural food products of 2 billion euros per year or 15 billion. The Central State, or Ministry of Finance, collects about a third of about 5.5 billion kuna in customs, excise duties and VAT. But that's why agricultural production is exactly what you said about production, the processing industry, the food industry, to say it completely lay down and completely died. Well, there's no added value based on this production, so then the situation is what you are and what you said in your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74823	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. ... It was a replica. You picked up a tile. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's get a reply to the replica, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74824	Thank you for your trust. Coli Grubisic, you couldn't read it in the media that INA was more expensive to sell fuel because in Croatia, such things are media silenced, but that's why the day it was published at the Competition Protection Agency came out on two pages or three interviews with a big businessman, a businessman who sold hotels and on the front page says I'm so sorry that the new owner won't let me run the hotels again because he's proven himself in management. These were only proven in the renovation of the hotel and remained in debt to suppliers. And as for the role of the CNB, we're not aware of the role of the CNB. So the whole power of the strongest and most powerful economic tool is in the hands of the CNB. No state has come out of economic recovery without its central bank's policy and only it has not come out that had the kind of credit monetary policy that the Croatian National Bank is conducting and that is why we have not gone out yet. But I think it is time that finally, because the National Bank is the institution of the Republic of Croatia, manages the account and in the name of the Republic of Croatia with a monetary mass, to become an integral part of national economic policy, not as I said the component of the policy of large business banks in the Republic of Croatia and just trying to make sure they get fat pockets anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74825	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74826	Thank you very much. To continue immediately, Mr. Maric, whether there are strategies and policies in general development and, above all, economic development in this country, this is already another issue. Namely, this report on the implementation of the 2010 State budget other than the technical part that you have praised, so two of them are Marić, the State Secretary and you, Mr Gorane, is actually a report of the continuity in which the deficit in the state budget is constant, here's what someone said 14.5 billion kuna. ... 1,3900, good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, it's actually the continuity or continuation of the deficit of the government of the great leader that you spoke of today as if Eve Sanader had been mentioned, so actually that deficit is being dragged...... I'd like you to warn Mr. Representative not to mind, to learn a little by the benches, not just the minister's seat. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, the new Madam Minister spoke of a poor macroeconomic environment or so in the first sentence, of a poor macroeconomic environment in that regard, most likely not a global crisis, recession. But if we look at what's going on in our country, in our country, and given our size, then we could also talk about some microeconomic environment metaphorically in which, in this environment, the governments of corruption, crime, thieving, brimming, or what our pope called an unclean conscience mildly said in which 80 billion kuna was missing, indicatively. Mr. Shuker, you can say it's different. So 80 billion kunas, it's over, not over, but 2/3 of one budget of the Republic of Croatia that's gone, and if it could be restored, or if it were the means to say criminally alienated returns, then we'd be on horseback and then we'd talk differently about both macroeconomic and microeconomic environments. What we can say about the implementation of the state budget when we know that the behaviour of both the leaders and the management of the units of local self-government and then the regional and state-owned has just been infected with this one again, I repeat, with a metaphorically unclean conscience and labors that have actually worked and are constantly acting on exactly this kind of reports that have been continuous with the deficit of the state budget. How to charge the state budget if in the Pokkraj Municipality, for example, people don't know where it is but I'll tell you that at Slavonski Brod in Dilj Gora, the Kozjak hill, which is being dug up and released in 100 million kunas if none of it comes into the state budget of Mr. Shuker or Mr. Seks. So it's the Pokrukalje municipality... Because you were the minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The founding of PV ore of calcite that was embroidered and where it could have been poured into the state register of 100 million kuna, and it didn't match. That's the income from the state budget, and it's gone. He's gone. How to explain the sale of wages in a free entrepreneurship zone in Sibinj where tens of millions of kunas have also disappeared. How do you explain, Madam Minister, that your ministry pays the rent of the IRS office in Slavonski Brod 400 thousand kunas a month or 500 thousand euros a year when you were able to build a new tax administration building for a couple of such rentals. Is that savings? I'm talking about hundreds of thousands of euros, about half a million euros a year, about 5 million euros in 10 years, renting to a private man clearly, thank God. Private-public partnership, call it. Furthermore, what we have received and done to the OIB, have we determined that the incomes of individuals correspond to their property status? How can someone buy a Punta Hotel and have a salary of 20, 30,000 kuna a month. Where did he get the money? Punta in Vodice I'm talking about which currently those trees were cut down around him. How can someone buy a quarry on Brac Island? Where did he get the money? How can I buy hotels in the Adriatic with a salary of 20, 30,000 kuna? As we give the railways billions and 300 million kunas from the budget, correct me if it is incorrect, because I am rounding numbers, as I am not an economist, but a doctor, and at the same time we have a pay manager on the railway, there are hundreds who receive a salary of between 30 and 50,000 kuna, three times as much as the MPs or state secretary, for example. Is that savings? And it's a state-owned company. Is it of particular interest to the state of the Croatian shipyard? They did. Were they subsidized, restructured, or whatever it's called? Are state guarantees issued? They are, and so are some. Is it of particular importance for the state of Croatia Đuro Đakovic is mostly owned by the state? It is. And were there guarantees issued for Djuru Djakovic? No, they're not. How? Take it easy, Shima. It was issued as Mr. Buric said 3 billion for shipyards, 100 million for Djuru Djakovic. But Djuro Djakovic is for Slavonski Brod the same thing as on May 3rd for Rijeka, that's the problem. And what about the 18,000 workers is down to 1,500. It's Slavonia and it's a central, central government relationship. The guarantee is given by the central state, guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, are these, therefore, economic recovery measures? Is the economic recovery measure to come out of Croatia untaxable or untaxed for 8 years, however you want 222 billion kunas carried away by various companies – banks, insurance companies, etc. And these are all foreign-owned banks. 222 billion kunas are gone. Ask Mr. Maric Schuker about it. And then how the state budget will be charged. It can't be filled with nudists. How today our Slavons sing about the Vienna but I won't sing it because they say we don't need tourism we have the most developed form of tourism. It's nudism, because we're naked and barefoot. For budget floods, 25% of what has been reported has been paid. Is this how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined about a quarter or a fifth of those values that are written. But that's why the demands and requests Mr Buric spoke of in connection with the so-called The community of municipalities, I don't even know what they're called Vukovar, Eastern Slavonia, and I don't know if I have any money, and it's hiding, and it's done in closed government sessions. Donations are given by hand and hat. There are also letters from Virovitica, people who are let me say similar or same nationalities that warn almost daily about the occurrence of money spending irregularities for the Serbian People's Council, or the community or whatever it is called. And that's how the state saves itself, so to speak, the state does business, and that's not how business can be done. It is not possible to fill the state budget or to spend it in a household where there is a husband, a wife, a family they know well how much income they have, and how much expenditure they have. And we have a year-to-year deficit all the time. 13 billion and 900 million kuna as Mr. Schucker said in 2010. For that reason and for a number of other reasons, because I don't have time to cite HDSSB as he said, and I will not vote personally for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74827	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74828	Thank you, Mr. Ptorred. So, dear fellow Grubisic, you have well noticed the comparison of the disproportionate between the granting of state guarantees that we talked about when it comes to certain areas of the Republic of Croatia in which Slavonia and Baranja remain suspended again. And that's right. I mentioned when we compare what Djuro Djakovic got as the only company in Slavonia and Baranja, then it is less than 3%. But something else is very interesting if I look at and analyze the 89 decisions I spoke about by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to spend the budget stock. It is not only for coalition partners that I spoke about in my report when it comes to the joint council of the municipality and the Serbian National Council of Money, but it is very interesting to analyse from those 63 million kunas of budget supplies that are municipalities and cities and how much money they get from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for activities from the part-round of their work, so municipalities, cities. There's one county that only got so much money. It is very interesting to conclude that on the last day of last year, on 31 December several municipalities received funds from the budget stock and I will tell you of these 89 decisions almost 20 million kuna of those 63 million kuna the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given in 11 municipalities and cities, 10 municipalities and cities and one county in which the HDZ or their coalition partners are in power exclusively. That's what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74829	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74830	Mr. Buric, an even more eclectic case of the silent or secret giving of money for a memorial in Serbia, where four probably guardians and those who edit were then employed from these funds, working on shifts 12, 24, 12, 48. However, a monument of "Storms" is also being built in Knin for which citizens of the Republic of Croatia themselves are collecting money from their own pockets and through the media from written or social networks. So, Croatian citizens collect money after this and after the warnings we are here to say from this opposition of the HDSSB we sent here from these benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74831	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74832	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, if we're listening to today's debate even though we're not just looking at numbers somehow, then we see that there's a lot in front of electoral rhetoric, but there's something else. So the tendency, the innate tendency of pessimism, and then we're on all the tables European at the top of the system to make us feel better. And pessimism is a well-known thing to make investors, to make businessmen, to stop them, to say it out of practice, unnecessary congestion because all those who thought to invest are waiting because there's half the MPs warning them that there's a black situation, we're failing, there's nothing wrong with it, right? So who's going to invest? Well, no one's gonna invest a normal thing. And that's why I bow as deep as I've been since '93. He bowed to anyone who hired someone, one, two, three, five, to every entrepreneur if he clearly paid his contributions, if he fairly paid his wages and paid his wages in time, so clearly under certain conditions, but the people who invested must have an environment. There's definitely a problem in that environment. Here, said counterpart Maric about high interest rates on loans, it must be bad, but must have local self-government support that can significantly affect the price of building permits, so it should finally be commended throughout the story and the government that has enabled a large number of work zones, helped to achieve a large number of work zones, land giving, land renting and so on. So the predispositions are good. And I'm an optimist here, and I believe that's where he's going. But what's happening to us? We've had our time, we've got our heads full every time we get a few years ago from dear opposition colleagues and colleagues that we have to compare with Ireland, Slovenia no longer mentions it, neither Ireland nor Slovenia, now mentions Germany. And Germany isn't so bright. We all have too many relatives and relatives in Germany who went there in those wonderful times when they had no business here before the '90s, long before the '90s and stayed there. I can give you the name and last name of the company that used to have 34 people before the crisis, now it's 7. And these are companies in Germany as long as you want. Germany pulls out, has a strong industry, that's right. A strong metal, auto-industry, everything we don't have, and that's true. And why we don't have it, we can talk about it, and how the industry went down by the '90s, we can talk about it very long and extensively and specifically, but good thing we're not going. So we have here a report that is very thorough, extensive, expanded. So, for those of you who want to know something, they have a chance to find out, they have a chance to ask, right? But we're pulling out black again, we're not going to accidentally and it's good not to compare ourselves with Bulgaria and Romania where personal income is half as low as we are, not to compare with Spain, we can't unfortunately compare to Spain for sport, but good for Portugal to all the way to Greece. So there are countries in the EU that stand much, much worse and are more insecure in spite of the huge amount of money pumping threatens them with less bad days, and it will take a lot to get out of the crisis they are in right now. We're the only ones who don't admit to the crisis. Croatia, there was no crisis in Croatia, we created this ourselves. We don't recognize war, 10 years lost. While our neighbors were taking our markets and buying us around, which was more valuable because we're losing today and today is finally on it or it's costing us a few billion dollars a year today, but that doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what got so hurt, it's ruined, it's been going to rebuild and what's going on today so much. No, we're still comparing ourselves with Germany, which has been settled neatly since the '50s, and it's been very solid and it hasn't survived after those years, all that we've been through. If we look at the countries of the socialist environment of the former, let's look at what they're offering. They offer free land, they offer tax write-offs, they offer a lot of it, they offer small wages because many times foreign investors came, first they ask how many salaries you have, they waved their hands, we move on, we go to Slovakia, we go to some other countries where we pay better, and that's true. But there are brighter examples. Here, one defense association I have to say from Samobor who has concluded contracts on the processing of plants and others that can't be fulfilled, can't meet all these contracts because so much is the demand for what they do, products. Here's HBOR funded them, that's what we say we don't invest, he financed them, he borrowed more than a million kunas, others will help, and they've hired now 7, 8 people already hired, they've hired all over Croatia the defense associations that work for them and it works well. So people who weren't just waiting for the help of the state, that the state would give them pensions, that I didn't know any welfare, something else, but they were on their own going well. Let us take a look at the example of young people who have been silenced very quickly because they were also in the Assembly, young designers who are now engaged in the textile industry. The textile industry that fell apart. What'd she fall for? Well, excessively, I'm openly speaking textile product smuggling from China, and I made a joke seven, eight years ago, so I said here in the Assembly that it would be good to bring in stamps and alcohols and textile goods, because it certainly wouldn't be the textile industry on its knees today. So, this smuggling that, because the same goods are almost sold on the thighs and on the fair, clearly ruined a lot of things. So we have examples of really good examples, and these good examples would be good to push the same thing first because they would encourage someone else to invest. What are we doing here? We're talking, it's gonna take, let's look at the pre-election now, pre-election rhetoric. He needs this, he needs that. No one's saying in particular what to take from someone when they get out of a deprecated budget, they have to pay for everything out of what they have to. What's left? Which remains for some kind of bribery, is it pre-election that we're already getting on our noses. And something else, how long? There's almost nothing left. For investments, some are still bigger because savings, general savings, and the savings are to be commended. Well, the savings are rigorous, savings are by the ministries, state-owned firms are on their way. And I agree with my colleague Boro Grubisic who said he needed to see how this one could do. I also agree with checking the property cards. That's why they're public. Who's the best guy to check? Neighbors and political opponents, that's definitely it. And that's good. Let him peek, let him say yeah, you wrote this, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it. Or I don't know that's on yours, yours, yours, still. And that's great, and that's what I need. So, by introducing order, by introducing perhaps even stronger ones, I'm always a little more eager to control tax revenues because it seems to me that the grey economy unfortunately has. Many have opened small companies so they continue to work, many have started companies, transferred debts, all the familiar things not to talk. Still, it could still be a little bit of a budget charge, because it's not fair to those who pay for everything, and that's where you really have to go harder with both the law and the rest. So let's look a little bit more optimistic and the smaller minus is better than the big minus, so let's finally watch if the fall stops, and I think it's stopped, that the rise will still be slow, and difficult, but it will be worse, especially by entering here or at least by joining the European Union, it will be at least safer for entrepreneurs, external entrepreneurs, while keeping clearly what is most valuable to us, but a little bit of optimism will come in handy for all of us, especially investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74833	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74834	Comrade Markovanovic, you are calling for optimism, and I agree with that, so let us, come to Slavonia, ask the citizens to come out for the happiness of getting out of the crisis with flags on the streets, but our Pope called for the courage that is... It's almost conflicting, but it's very, very warning, and it's not optimism, it's a slightly different definition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Courage and conscience, conscience is for you. So when you're talking about that exit from the crisis, and that optimism, then it seems to me that you've lost a little bit of a group sense of reality and reality. Ask the citizens and there are also polls on how many they feel poor and eventually how many pensioners there are in percentages below 2 and a half thousand kuna pensions. Over 50%. Furthermore, when you talked about employment and that anyone who hires should be celebrated, you may be unhappy that you didn't hire one of the driving drivers of a blinded BMW, and you could have been in HDZ, but here's something that's fainted, so there's one driver less employed. Furthermore, when you were talking about economic zones and giving land to economic zones, do you know how much it was there not to say wrong moves and crime in that regard? Are you familiar with that? Because you have the same optimism that still stands for you, or let me tell you maybe. Or criminal charges that exist. And fourthly, when you talked about this optimism, it is interesting that from the area of special state care, such as the town of Knin, 55 Croatian families have moved out in the last 2 months, gone to Canada, so much for the care of Croatian citizens, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74835	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74836	Well, here I think a colleague normally goes on in the same tone, I think it would come back the same way, but I don't think it makes any sense and that wouldn't be good. But if we're talking about optimism, then we think that's how it's gonna be. You can talk about Slavonia whatever you want, finally I was born in Slavonia, and I grew up in Slavonia, so I finally know the situation very well, but don't talk about hunger in Slavonia, don't talk about full of it, I know that small incomes are there, but survival can be. Clearly not as well as you here are doctors there etc., we heard about this too many days, there was also a survey etc. Last night and so on, yesterday, but the Slavons can survive, and you humiliate them, dear gentlemen, to raise yourself and your points, political points, you humiliate the people, that they are poor, poor, hopeless, so let's go a little... With rural tourism, Europe is hungry for good food, and you talk Slavonians poor, miserable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who's going to go to that misery after yours? Don't ruin the pride of the people you live with, and you keep doing it just to raise you to... Or I don't know where to raise your ratings a little bit. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Out of Salzburg crack.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74837	Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74838	Dear colleague Markovinović, I give you my regards from Zenica, and you will probably get greetings from Salzburg, where you said hello. I'm giving you a line so you can answer, because you said you're pulling out black stuff all the time, and I'm asking you a question where and in this report you see bright things? On page 517, a colleague Markovanovic, therefore the topic of the macroeconomic environment in 2010, is a table with 19 basic macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Croatia. Of these 19 basic macroeconomic indicators 14 are negative, 14 are black intonated according to the report that came here in front of parliamentary representatives, and you're talking about optimism. We are talking about a real situation, Croatia is in an extremely difficult situation, and when you talk about Slavonia and Baranja, except that you were born in Slavonia and Baranja, after these statements, it would be better never to talk about Slavonia and Baranja again, because you insult people living in Slavonia and Baranja, who live hard, below the level of dignity they deserve. And your findings that Slavons and Baranians, as you said, can survive, are an insult to all people in Slavonia and Baranja who live on the edge of existence. Take a plate on page 517 and see, gross domestic product, industrial production, retail index, registered employment rate, registered unemployed, number of employees, no exchange rate, here we have a exchange rate and a exchange rate of dollars, and what if we put a Swiss franc course on the knees of a huge number of Croatian citizens, not to say by foreign debt that has grown to here 45.8 billion euros. And you're talking about how someone spreads black things about the economic situation, about reality, about Croatian economic reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74839	Okay. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74840	And I mean nothing new, you've continued to humiliate the Slavs again, to humiliate them, because they're miserable and miserable. I repeat only your words. So the pure humiliation of the environment, to lift up here the new leader, the new leader, the führre, probably the Slavonian there that will actually lead people into prosperity. Only if they turn their backs on the government, the state and everything else, then they'll be fine. Let's look at you two, let's find those other two out there who are in town and county, I think Slavons are expecting a bright future definitely. If they're overly optimistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74841	Injury of the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder: Poor thing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74842	... So you mention some words that are often said here that should not be mentioned, such as führer etc. [[Specially enabled.]] I will repeat to you Mr. Markovinović, we are no führers, we are the people's representatives of Slavonia and Baranja unlike you who are a mere obedient and adversaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74843	This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No one called you führer. ... It's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If someone turns to someone, it doesn't mean they named him with the way he turned.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74844	Your colleague Linic told you well, I only added what you are. Besides being a liar, you're also an outsider and a listener.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74845	Great. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Ms. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Markovanovic, I just wanted to say something about your debate about defense cooperatives, who at the time of the recession were, in particular, one of the institutes where they went for self-employment. I was going to say that since 2004, when the first defense team is, that's this samobor you've talked about, and then we have 336 defense cooperatives that hire 9 thousand people, and the best ones in Slavonia are exactly, exactly, the ones best organized, and that's why, in addition to your debate, I'm saying that Slavons don't need to be called poor and miserable because they're not. Another thing that is related to here is the measure of economic recovery, which is that for the purposes of empowering and promoting women's entrepreneurship the government is, it implements various projects aimed at promoting women's entrepreneurship, so in the last few years together with Croatian counties it implements these programmes, so we have loans for young women entrepreneurs, and for employment, and for self-employment. And here he is in favor of your debate, and I wanted to say that he knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74847	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with debate Report on completed jobs and spent funds to produce technical documentation for the census of households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011, continues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-08-0.u74848	We are going to propose an annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. The result? I find that most of the votes we have brought annual reports on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 with 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 27 against. In accordance with Article 111 of the Treaty on the I am voting on the budget law: firstly, the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2010. Please include and vote on the decision to give consent in relation to Croatian waters. The result? I find that most of the votes we have made a decision to give consent to an annual report with 79 votes in favour, one abstention and 26 against. Secondly, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2010. Please include and vote on the decision to give consent to the Croatian road. The result? I find that most of the votes 78 for and one abstention, 29 against the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2010. Third, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan, and the resolution of banks for 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision was made by a majority vote of 79 votes for, no abstentions and 27 against, we have made a decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan to secure savings deposits for the resolution of banks for 2010. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent, agree to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, one abstention and 22 against the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2010. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2010 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan. Please engage and vote on this decision, on granting consent. The result? I find that most of the votes, 79 for, no abstentions and 25 against the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2010 Fund's financial plan for environmental protection and energy efficiency. We move to the 2011 Report on jobs and spent resources to produce technical documentation for the list of population, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia. The applicant is the State Geodetic Authority. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: the 2011 report on jobs carried out and spent on drawing up technical documentation for the list of population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Let's please get involved and vote on the report. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 101 votes for, nothing abstentions and 3 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work and as announced at the agenda point - Report on completed jobs and spent funds to produce technical documentation for the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. The applicant is the State Geodetic Authority, the State Geodetic Administration submitted a report on the basis of Article 44 of the Census, Households and Apartments Act in the Republic of Croatia for 2011. You received the proposal by mail, the government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, you received reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Mr. Zeljko Bačić, director of the Geodetic Administration.
