ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73949	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're starting today's session. Since the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is still going on, we can't, and he's the parent board, we can't start with the announced point, so we'll start with the point - Proposal for a Law on the Culture New Foundation, first reading, P.Z. No. 794. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nina Obuljen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73950	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. In front of you is the proposal for a law on the "Cultura new" Foundation, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Croatian Parliament in its first reading, so in regular procedure. And let me introvert what are the basic reasons for the adoption of this law, which we believe will have extremely positive effects on development in the first row of the civil sector or beyond the institutional sector in culture. As is known, as we know, the civil sector in the Republic of Croatia in the area of culture has an extremely long tradition. However, it can be said that there has been an extremely significant development beyond institutional culture and the civil cultural sector over the past decade. This has been contributed by new networking models, and by the establishment of a number of independent institutions operating in the Republic of Croatia but also through different networks and organisations with their partners in the first row in Europe, in the countries of the European Union. It is important to stress that in some areas of culture and art such as contemporary dance, the civil sector is today almost the only or truly the only holder of these artistic practices. The fact that a number of projects have been withdrawn is also a fact of how well this cultural sector has been recognised in Europe. So many projects have been approved, a lot of funding has been withdrawn from European institutions and foundations. However, it should also be pointed out that the situation is in an economic crisis, and it is not only the specifics of Croatia. This is seen in more than one European country. And in the budgetary savings situation, actually outside the institutional sector, the one that put up with the greatest burden in the first wave of savings because of the simple fact that the public authorities were any state, was the local self-government in the obligation to finance its public institutions, however, the budgetary savings felt firstly on the programme funds. In Croatia, the problem is particularly felt in large cities that have opened up space for an independent cultural sector during the period of their budgets, and now in crisis conditions they are rapidly reducing funds without or without the possibility of a different redistribution of funds. I must stress that this is not the basic reason why this law is passed, because in fact the law and the law has been spoken of for many years. The initiative started already in 2005 as part of the Council for New Media Cultures at the Ministry of Culture and the law is widely discussed. The initiative has been widely discussed, and I must also point out that the establishment of the "Culture New" Foundation is also foreseen by the national youth programme from 2009 to 2013 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in July 2009. I stress that although the Ministry of Culture always conducts a public debate once the text of the law has been established this time, no special public debate has been held simply because the law is referred to in a regular procedure, and the whole text of the law as imagined has actually grown from an initiative initiated by an independent cultural sector, i.e. from a broad public debate that preceded the adoption of this bill at all. In order to achieve its purpose, the Foundation will provide professional and financial support to civil society organisations and programmes in culture that, as a first point, encourage the development of production and organisational capacities of programme holders that raise the level of professional action through informal education and professional training, which promote the establishment of sectoral cooperation, which promote programme networking and cooperation at national, regional and international level, and which promote artistic creation and cultural action of young people. In this context, it is important to stress that the foundation will support the widest circle of the bearer of modern cultural production of the civil sector, not just what is called a new media alternative, urban or youth culture. I must stress that this will also contribute to decentralisation of decision-making, and we have already achieved a good result by setting up a Croatian Audiovisual Centre which is a good example of how outside the Ministry of Culture is self-employed by financing full activity, but also makes a significant contribution to the articulation of specific policies. In this regard, we expect that the Culture New Foundation will also contribute through its activities and through partnerships with similar foreign foundations not only to financing but also to improving the status of an extra-institutional culture. As far as funding is concerned, the Foundation is planned to finance from part of the gambling revenue and prize games, in accordance with the Law on Games on Happiness and the Regulation on criteria for determining users, and how to distribute part of the income from gambling, and from its basic assets, income from fixed assets, donations and other incomes which will be obtained in accordance with the Act on Foundations and Foundations. It should also be stressed that the Foundation is expected to play an active role in attracting both public and private funds from other sources, and in this regard we think that the great potential for greater withdrawal of funds from the European Union is because such funds have the opportunity to withdraw funds for later institutional funding. As far as the law itself is concerned, the law defines the purpose of the foundation as promoter of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, in the area of contemporary culture and art, the bodies of the foundation are arranged, so it is foreseen that the Foundation has a board of directors and trust managers. The Management Board has 5 members, and members of the Management Board are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Culture. The Management Board shall appoint and resolve the Management Board by a majority of the votes of the total number of members of the Management Board. The law also regulates the underlying assets of the foundation, which will amount to 100 thousand kuna, and will be paid out of the state budget, from the division of the Ministry of Culture. And of course the law regulates the funding of the foundation, which I already said something about. And at the very end, as I have said, the law is referred to in the two-reading procedure, we will consider all the proposals and suggestions that we get after this first reading, but it is important to stress it also for your sake, but also for those who follow this debate that the creation of the foundation will not actually replace the programme funding from the Ministry of Culture and other public sources. In other words, as so far, an independent cultural scene, civil society, an extra-institutional culture will apply to the programmes of the Ministry of Culture and other public funds, and according to the criteria and evaluation of excellence, their programming activities will be financed, and the aim of this foundation will be to give institutional support to this extremely important sector, an extremely important part of our overall cultural sector in an adequate way to support it. Here's me thanking you for your attention, and if there are any questions I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73951	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Bozo Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73952	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. In the Republic of Croatia, in the last decade, civil and cultural sectors have been profiled as a significant factor of new values in the area of culture itself. New networking models, social engagement, intersectoral action, the establishment of independent institutions operating at international level, as well as the number of active organisations on the cultural scene were among the most developed in Europe. The achievements and developments so far are not only recognised at European cultural level, but are also significantly financially supported by international institutions and foundations, while at the same time increasing the recognition of programmes from domestic media and the general public, and therefore more systematic programme funding than state and local administrations, but within a cultural model that gives a distinct advantage to public cultural institutions. This when I say local administrations, of course it's not satisfactory. Since the civil and cultural sectors are in an unequal position and the reform of the existing cultural model would require a longer period of time, it is necessary to ensure that the situation of the civil and private cultural sector is improved within the existing model compared to the public cultural sector. On the other hand, the effects of the crisis endanger existing achievements and threatens hard to repair with... states. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For these reasons, the law provides for the establishment of a culture foundation that would provide professional and financial support to civil society organisations and programmes in the area of contemporary culture and art. The proposal of the Culture New Foundation Act came from a multi-annual civil initiative of organizations in culture, and the purpose and objectives of the foundation were publicly presented and discussed on several occasions. The initiative launched cultural networks in 2004, with the intention of improving the institutional framework for the action of the civil cultural sector. The initiative was presented to the professional public at an international conference organised in October 2004 in Zagreb ahead of the Berlin Conference on European Cultural Policy, as an integral part of it. After being discussed within the largest network of civil cultural sectors in Croatia, and with professional publicity, the first presentation of the initiative to the general public took place in May 2005 in the stands... about the position of an independent culture and youth in the city of Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result of these stands was the inclusion and establishment of the "Cultura Nova" Foundation in the Declaration of Independent Culture and Youth in the Development of the City of Zagreb, as one of the measures to improve the situation so far. The Council for New Media Cultures in the Ministry of Culture discussed the initiative for the first time in December 2005, and in January 2007, the same council began the process of identifying the needs and basic objectives of the foundation that resulted in the establishment of a working group for the definition and development of the "Culture new" delinquent foundation and finalising the draft "Culture new" Foundation Act. The foundation of the "Cultura Nova" Foundation is planned for a national youth programme from 2009 to 2013, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in July 2009. In the participatory advisory process, which was attended by representatives of youth organisations for the establishment of the foundation, it is envisaged as the first measure in the chapter of the youth culture and at the same time, and the adoption of the Law on Foundation "Cultura Nova" was planned for 2010, but the start of the foundation's work for 2011. In addition to the long-term participatory process, which was attended by representatives of the civil cultural sector, competent administrations and relevant professions, initiatives... the definition of the purpose, objectives and part-round of the foundation that are formalized in the proposal of the "Culture New" Foundation that is before us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to achieve its purpose, the Foundation provides professional and financial support to civil society organisations and programmes in culture, which promote the development of production and organisational capacities of programme holders, raises the level of professional action through informal education and professional training, promotes the establishment of cross-sectoral cooperation, promotes programme networking and cooperation at national, regional and international level, promotes artistic creation and cultural action of young people. For that purpose and the detour, it follows that the foundation will support the widest circle of the bearer of modern cultural production of the civil cultural sector, not just so-called. new media, alternative and urban or culture for young people. Until, on the other hand, professional organisations which are not holders of this production are included in this coverage, whose core institutional activity is financed on some other basis. It also follows that the foundation will not be a competitive, i.e. a replacement source of programme funding to those existing at national and local level but complementary, or complementary, within a cultural model that does not provide for systematic capacity building of civil society organisations in culture as well as long-term platform cooperation. In the area of building the capacity of the foundation will operate in two fields: building institutional capacities of programme-holder organisations and informal education and professional training. Institutional funding of civil society organisations exists in different parts of the state administration and the public sector, except for the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which through its institutional support programme provides support to civil society organisations operating in the area of democratisation and civil society development. Such support shall also be provided by the ministries in which the organisation is part in the fields of protection, social care and disability, and... for their core activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Fund will encourage dynamic institutional support to increase production capacities aimed at institutional development of those organisations that show their best performance in the public competition. Institutional funding of an organisation will be limited to a certain number of years, and will only be able to be repeated through a new public tender after the evaluation of the work of the organisation and the effects of the funds used and after the time break. Institutional support will focus on improving the activity of those who contribute most to the visibility and development of the civil sector in culture, in particular through the programming of public spaces, the organisation of festivals, the management of permanent and multi-annual programmes and the organisation of artistic production. Support will focus on stabilising working conditions, developing core activities, material technical equipment, professional training and public visibility. In Croatia there is no system of academic education or vocational education in the field of cultural management appropriate to the contemporary cultural context and the needs of civil society in culture. In addition to the study of production at the Academy of Drama Art and the direction of culture management at the High School of Business and Management from Zapresic, it is difficult to find anything that can at least formally meet the needs of that kind of education, and on the other hand the holders and organizers of independent culture, cultural and artistic production, knowledge and skills, cultural management are crucial not only for their professional improvement but also for the functioning of their organisations in a modern, dynamic and demanding cultural environment. In order to mitigate the impact of these shortcomings, as well as to take advantage of existing resources, knowledge and experience of foundations, it is necessary to organise or encourage the organisation of informal educational programmes that will respond to the need for knowledge from cultural management, strategic planning, cultural policy and advocacy, fund-raising, project management and others. One of the key features of civil society's action in culture to which the current cultural model of one-year funding of projects and programmes in development activities is difficult to respond is the creation of co-operation platforms characterised by interdisciplinaryism and very often intersectoral action. More organisations, participants from very often different places, multi-annual duration, software complexity from different programmes and projects, and often every platform of specific forms of joint management and management. The Fund will achieve the legislative objectives of promoting, establishing cross-sectoral cooperation and improving programme networking and cooperation at national, regional and international level through support for the development of long-term platforms and cooperation. The development function of such platforms is obvious, as they respond to the need for more intensive cooperation models, which are structuredly involving a number of participants, thus exceeding simple project cooperation or one-way content distribution. Such platforms increase the total number and dispersion of cultural content, create social capital, encourage more efficient use of resources, enable more responsible and autonomous action of civil society and dynamic relations on the cultural scene. It is therefore necessary to encourage their establishment in different fields of cultural and artistic action, and within the current funding model, such a task cannot be fully achieved, so this should be one of the fundamental tasks of the foundation itself. Because of the dynamics of the social environment, diversity, purpose and objectives of their own action, and the desire to influence the positive social transformation processes of many of the targeted initiatives in culture have a strong need for action in other social areas, which is why they establish partnerships with various entities. Three main directions of such cooperation are: within the cultural sector with public and private entities in culture, within the wider civil sector with organisations in the field of environmental protection, human rights of young people, social care and others, and within a wider social field with trade unions, universities and other public and private institutions with facilities. The Fund will encourage the establishment of stable inter-sectoral cooperation platforms in those three fields where civil cultural sector initiatives as a specific cultural interest will play a pregnant or equal role. An extremely large number, the great development potential for the civil sector in culture, represents participation in European projects, especially those financed through the European Commission's programmes. In addition to youth culture programmes, science and others, there are regional and development funds in which cultural organisations can participate most often with European partners in joint projects. Due to the size of financial support, partnerships that are implemented through projects and the complexity of their operational implementation of organisations that receive funding in European competitions to organise the project in an international context will be set aside for excellence and quality in the same way as in the domestic context. The conditions of these tenders require a certain percentage of the pre-secured financial participation. Since it is often a matter of major financial scale projects, mandatory financial participation can be in the amounts that civil sector organisations in culture can hardly provide. Not only are they in an unequal position towards public institutions in culture, given the total institutional capacity needed to participate in such projects but they are far more difficult than public institutions can provide or display, for example, wages as a share, the financial resources required. On the other hand, these organisations in the past have proved to be the most active in finding new partnerships at European level and in finding foreign sources of funds. It would therefore be harmful not only for the development of the civil sector in culture but also for Croatia to participate in the withdrawal of funds from the European Funds unless the capacities of local organisations are sufficient to achieve that purpose. The Ministry of Culture is part of the financing of projects supported within the European Culture Programme 2007-2013. But not entirely and not for other programs and funds. The four forms of action of the foundation are necessary for the purpose, the first form is to include the usual activity,... financial support, the second management of their own programmes which contribute to the achievement of the purpose of the Foundation and the third partnership with various public and civil social entities and the fourth, of course, the provision of technical and other assistance and services for the civil cultural sector. The Fund will be financed from the revenue of gambling from prize games in accordance with the Law on Games on Happiness and the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute portions of gambling revenue, and from the basis of assets, income from fixed assets, donations and other incomes in accordance with the Foundation and Foundations Act. In accordance with this Foundation, additional funds will be set up for the achievement of the basic purpose for which it is established to deal with the collection of financial resources from both domestic and international both public and private sources. In this context, the active role of the trust on the one hand should be highlighted by increasing the absorption capacity of culture in view of the European Funds, especially where it comes to extremely large projects or where civil society organisations do not have sufficient capacities. For independent participation, on the other hand, in ensuring access to domestic private sources of funding, which very rarely, with considerable resources, participate in the financing of civil sector programmes in culture. It should be stressed that we hope that this Law will also contribute to a better understanding when it comes to local administration and self-government of better understanding of the activities of these cultural associations, the Foundation of Culture Nova and of course all the associations that belong to it and I would like to say in the end that the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73953	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73954	Proposal for a law on Culture Foundation new. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A proposal for a law on the Culture New Foundation is being adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions delivered in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. With 95 votes to three abstentions, this conclusion was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one notice. Access to information will be delayed for additional consultations. We kindly ask you to fill out the accreditation printers and put them on the table in front of the assembly. Two printers have been delivered to you and to your spouses. Without full and timely filled-in accreditation printers, we will not be able to make applications since the deadlines set for us are very short. The last time limit for receiving those are if you do not leave them on the table today in front of the assembly on Tuesday 24 May 2011. Years. The Protocol of the Croatian Parliament will inform you of the method of download related to the transport to the track. It is noted that the Croatian Parliament will organise transport from the Tuškanac garage to the hypodrom for all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and their escort. We'll let you know when the bus leaves. In case of need of additional information please report to the Croatian Parliament protocol. So it's about the visit of St. Father Benedict XVI. The Republic of Croatia. I'm interrupting the session. The session continues on Wednesday with a debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. So next week it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73955	We will now begin with the point that was announced last night and that is - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 820. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You've received reports or just received reports on the benches, at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Mlakar, Minister of Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me just a few things that I think it is worth saying on the occasion of these presentations Amendments and the addition of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. In February, the Parliament passed the Law, which for the first time very detailed and rigorously arranged the way in which the funding and election promotions took place, so that all possible election campaigns but also the regular work and business of political parties and all other political entities competing in a political fight with a whole series of new ones, I would say to the institutes which are controlled with certain amounts to which it is possible to encourage the financial political struggle or political parties of independent candidates and representatives of national minorities. And that law is I dare say the law that rarely the European Member State of the European Union has so detailedly arranged. However, after adopting the law that was in line with the European Commission's representatives after subsequent talks and negotiations on the conclusion of Chapter 23, which included one of the criteria for the conclusion and the Law on the financing of political parties of electoral promotion, as a result of negotiations only this week, at the beginning of this week, more precisely on Monday, we received an additional condition from the European Commission which she thinks should be incorporated into our Law in order to control the financing of political parties as strictly as possible, or to carry out as best possible. We are of the opinion and today we can discuss that this control has been established by the authority of the State Office for Auditing that election promotion has been established and special control through the State Election Commission, and what was said at the beginning of these negotiations, it would be very difficult and that it required the establishment of a completely new independent body and thus the re-awakening of the administration which would activate the financing of election campaigns, we have decided and today we believe that this is a good decision that the existing bodies that have these powers are controlling the financing of political parties and therefore we have kept it completely unnecessary to establish some new special body that would naturally require both new costs and new efforts in the budget. So, the condition that we have received in the conclusion of the negotiations as a new condition this week was the European Commission's condition that in our existing law, whose solutions have been adopted, we further determine the possibility that not only the State Audit Office but also the State Election Commission, apart from this period of electoral promotion, has the power to oversee the financing of political parties during their regular work, so beyond the time of election promotion. Therefore, for a period of 4 years other than the State Audit Office, which conducts a business audit, this law now provides that the DIP also has its capacities, but also at the request of their other bodies, which are authorised to monitor and control the financing of all political states and all political entities on the political stage. That is the point, it is the only addition to the amendments to this law, it is a new condition set by the European Commission for the closure of Chapter 23, and this is now through the proposal to amend and supplement this law technicalally elaborate this requirement, so jurisdiction other than the State Office for Auditing, now according to this proposal and the State Election Commission for the whole period would be able to monitor the financing of political parties, independent candidates and candidates of members of national minorities. What I have to say here, and I think it's important to mention. This law to kind of refer to what has already been said, the fruit of our work is de facto in two days after negotiations with the representatives of the European Commission have been held after a new condition set by the subcommittee with which we negotiated last week and finally on Monday, and this is the result of the work of all those in charge of closing Chapter 23 in the section relating to the financing of the political party. Therefore, the addition or strengthening of the obligations and responsibilities of all those involved in the political fight but also the possibility of additional control set as a new condition for the conclusion of the negotiations. I think a new step has been made, or a tighter control given the possibility to the State Election Commission. The DIP will probably be able to carry out its capacity, possibly even upgraded tasks either alone, or through the competent authorities that do so. And I think that in two days, it is a great success that we have done this by law until the end to resolve the issue of financing political parties and to get the consent of the European Commission that this is a good solution and that this solution is a quality conclusion of this part and a de facto fulfilment of the conditions set before us here in the last few days to close chapter 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73957	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Previously on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73958	On behalf of the SDP club, please rest for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73959	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73960	Joining this one initiative So that, as far as I know, we might be talking about a boycott of the Parliament but also abuse of institutions in the case of one of our colleagues. [[I didn't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73961	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73962	I'm also asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73963	Thank you. I'm declaring a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 10.15 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73964	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73965	Dear colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens. (Laughter) I don't know why you're laughing. Citizens and citizens voted for us. If you think we're here because we have beautiful eyes, then you misunderstood Parliament. Parliament is the place where we are all chosen by citizens to talk about them and their problems here. Therefore, my address not now but every time goes not only to you here in Parliament but to citizens and citizens who voted for me and for every MP here in Parliament. Yesterday, SDP representatives left the hall, missed work because they protested the abuse of parliament institutions. It is not regrettable for the first time, because, despite the talks in Parliament's presidency, the abuse of institutions is repeated mainly by the same people who chair the Croatian Parliament. The work of the chairman is not only to read who will speak but to hold a session and maintain order, to take care of the integrity of the debate in this House. When there is no reaction to unacceptable speech, insult and disqualification, then it is called the abuse of the institution. Yesterday, all the boundaries of civilised behavior were indeed torn down by us. And from the SDP often in the heat of fighting and debate come some inappropriate statements but every time, my fellow citizens and citizens, it is sanctioned by the chairman as opposed to the withdrawal from the ruling majority. And that's what bothers us, the double rules of the game in the same hall, and the same rules of the game should apply equally to everyone. We don't care about fighting in the SDP, we're interested in citizens. In this session of Parliament, we gave more than 35 laws in the parliamentary procedure in which we mainly wanted solutions to economic problems, in order for citizens to stop losing jobs. Unfortunately, these laws were not only rejected but the debate on them was at the lowest possible level. Citizens expect us to have a serious and reasoned debate, not an insult and disdain. We have also voted and supported in this mandate all the laws necessary for Croatia's entry into the European Union, except for those laws for which we have filed a constitutional suit because we believe they have elements of the anti-constitution. As a result of this, citizens don't trust the Parliament, citizens have more and more problems every day, are left without jobs, are left without apartments, and here individuals are trying to manage every serious debate on how to solve citizens' problems. Dear citizens and citizens, on behalf of the SDP club, I can say that we do not agree with any offensive statement that has been made in this house. Because of the behavior of individuals who buy their statements minutes in information shows you get the impression that we are all the same which is not true. We from the SDP club were constructive opposition, we were equally responsible in opposition and when we were in power unlike some others. The only salvation for the citizens of this country is that this assembly of Parliament will not last much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73966	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73967	Dear Mr. Chairman, Vice President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. And a boycott of Parliament's work is also a kind of political expression. My principle has always been if you're willing to call someone, clearly when I do it I only make arguments... Then you have to be ready and take a clear shot and it's like in the ring, you have the right to hit an opponent by certain rules, he has the right to fight back, but the judge must be impartial, not hit you in the back of the head. It's also true that my predecessor said that the chairman doesn't have the same criteria for everything, but what we do is we're all just as bloody under the skin as the people would say. So in Parliament, it's not a problem, let everyone clearly attack the words, understandably, don't give God to his fists, let him challenge, don't need to be offended, but what's most dangerous, shouldn't be planted and shouldn't be hinted at as it happened in the current morning. Persecution by the authorities of their political inexperiences. It means what's far, far more serious to me, and what needs to be fought against and what needs to be stood up against, it's this instrumentization of institutions. So we're all following up on what's going on, I'm going to say it out loud, and it's been happening to Mr. Linic lately on the basis of one fictional, one ridiculous, dilettane anonymous application. And gentlemen, it's not only embarrassing but it's dangerous. If everything in that application is correct, and I know it's a lie, then Linic should immediately end up in prison. But if all this is a lie as it is, if it is a coaster, in a civilized country those behind it should bear the consequences, at the very least, gentlemen should be resolved. And now you're asking yourself the question of who's behind that anonymous. I claim that behind that stands the top or the state or the MUP itself, and that gentlemen are dangerous, it's dangerous. The election gentlemen can't be led by packing, so Tito didn't let Tudjman pack up like he's doing now to some in the opposition. And in one word, parliamentaryism, gentlemen, is not an abuse of the position or institution of government. If this continues clearly, you must also bear in mind that the beating has two ends and that any fair authority must be taken up, and especially the future one that will be composed of the opposition ranks, that institutions be autonomous, that they do their job, that no one should abuse and control them, that institutions should not abuse their powers. E, because an individual of any of us according to one institution is absolute, absolutely powerless and you all know very well, and Linic especially because it survives that it is absolutely not the goal of punishing Linic because it will not happen, but it is to disabling the credibility of the SDP and that is the background of this anonymous. This is proof, gentlemen, that these institutions are being abused, it's dangerous, and this is happening in the Parliament whether or not someone is going to be or going out, it's more of a folklore nature because there's little that this Parliament is deciding about anyway, and I want to believe that this practice is going to change, too. So what's fundamental is how to be just, how to be principled, I guess. It's hard, but it should in some way try to be, not to have ministers, to have people run by institutions, who aim to pack up the opposition because of someone's party interests, to furniture the processes, to instrumentalise events in these countries. The opposition can even misrepresent an event or the behaviour of a minister. But the opposition very well you know can't abuse an institution. This is reserved only for power, and such practice is today in the Republic of Croatia and it needs to be fought today and when changes in power occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73968	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Branko Box, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, you've shown behind the anonymous stand at the top of the country. That's not true. Which is why my colleague Linic would be in a different position than all of us who, for example, work in local self-government. In particular, I've been working 17 years in local self-government as a leader, and for dozens of times I've been on an intelligence conversation with the police based on anonymity. So, colleague Linic doesn't me and the others do. Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73970	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain incorrectly said that when he said he was always speaking argumentically. Well, that's incorrect, so you're, if he's speaking in favor of it, so you're a recordr by the number of correcting incorrect allegations and that's in favor of your argument. You've been starting lately... and warnings about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I find it interesting that today you have extended your interest and your interest in legal waters. I suggest you stay original nice, keep celebrating Tito or maybe in the woods as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73972	HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73973	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I don't know how many times we've had to deal with each other and the consequences that come out of it, and the horror of those who chose us, who listen to us and look at us. We agreed both at the Bureau of Parliament and at our meetings between clubs to keep our discussions within the framework of politeness. I know it's not always possible. We have been to other parliaments and we can say that we are babies towards most of them. But still, the public may be more sensitive to insults, slanders and what is happening in this Assembly for the simple reason is the economic crisis and people are looking at us and asking us to act positively, to try to get the state out of that crisis, which, of course, we do. But then we spoil everything we do with a few of these scenographic shows that really don't do us any good. I know we may have gone a little too far yesterday, but remember your colleagues from the SDP. There was that on your side, and we swallowed a lot. It's not just a matter of being said by a representative in this assembly. The problem is what he says outside of the assembly when there is no chairman, and it echoes much further and stronger. Remember the biggest clashes have begun between us when fellow Jovanovic, who is not here now, is not working on Fridays, when he declared us first declared us a criminal organisation. Then he said correcting the diagnosis of HDZ is not a criminal, it's a criminal organization. And then he said it wasn't even criminal. It's a joint criminal enterprise of HDZ. Well, of course it's giving birth to us certain emotions, certain stressful situations, and that it's giving birth to a desire for an answer. So I appeal once again from this place, please all parliamentary parties including mine. We discussed it a lot at the club. Let's refrain from insults and individuals and parties. We're going to fight arguments, with arguments that can be quoted and checked, not slanders and insults because we need to serve as a role model to this country rather than as a means to prepare in media black and red chronicles. So let this brief conversation between us be over, I ask you again one conclusion. The battle politically fierce yes, but only with arguments without personal insults and no insults by the parties. There are, of course, grains and weeds in each party. We're all human. The party cannot be personified with someone who has done something wrong in this party, because every party has worked for Croatia as well as she thought it does and as much as it can from its worldview. I do not believe there is a party who has been knowingly and deliberately doing something that is not in the interest of the Croatian state. So here's with this attempt to make peace, I ask that our debates remain fierce without insult, slander by individuals and parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73974	Thank you. We continue to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73975	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As Mr Minister said, it is another correction called the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions with the final bill of law, which we are working on at the request of the European Commission, which has set us up with another additional condition, although we were convinced that we have regulated this area legally, as Mr Minister also said better than many of our other friendly European countries. But it is just another proof that Croatia is under special increase, not because it is Croatia, but because the criteria of the European Commission have changed and we are the first to come up with these criteria and we want them and we want them to meet them. With such a message, of course, we are also entering into the amendments to this law concerning donations in election promotions. In these donations, there were elections that were, of course, a lot of things behind us that were not subject to the light of the public, nor subject to different inspections or audits, because it was not regulated by law. The law we are changing here is very well regulated and it is clear that all the receipts we have in the election campaigns, from the level of campaign for the President of the Republic, to the level of resources of the Parliament, to the level of local administrations and regional regional administrations, all donations are subject not only to records but also to the possibilities of supervision and control. This is the responsibility of a state audit, an institution that has all of the human rights organisational conditions to control such duties, giving is limited in quantity according to different elections and according to the manner of application, or control. Another institution is now being introduced at the request of the European Commission, and it is good to introduce an existing institution, which is the State Election Commission, and not that there is still an increase in unnecessary red tape, the administration, very likely not sufficiently effective in its first years of existence, but is entrusted to the State Election Commission. It is thus determined in Article 3 that Article 27, which reads the State Election Commission, is overseeing the annual financial operations and the annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives, etc., which is a new addition with the control of these donations in election campaigns. It also means control of the annual report, plus control of all donations at all levels of the election. What remains then is how the State Election Commission will do it when it is not teamed up for it. This is settled in paragraph 6 which becomes paragraph 7 and the State Election Commission exercises control through other competent authorities, it has written so far, and now it is said in the exercise of supervision of the State Election Commission to carry out control and verification through other competent authorities. Therefore, the State Election Commission will not increase with new experts in financial operations, but will benefit from the institutions that exist in the state and under its supervision, and under its control these institutions will also review the annual financial report from parties, independent representatives, etc., and these grants. We believe that in this way there really has been a quality leap, that this is now a law that is on all sides surrounding all the possibilities of abuse, especially in election campaigns. I'd just like to add another very important fact here. The law very precisely determines and determines the control over the entry of funds into the campaign, so primarily of donations. The law in application must also look at the equally important side, and these are expenditures in campaigns. Much more fraud was in the statement of expenditure than in the statement of income. The revenues could be covered up because they are quite indistinguishable to the public, but the expenditures are completely transparent, and therefore I believe that both the State Audit and the State Election Commission will strictly monitor the expenditure side of all election campaigns, it is very simple, it must be recorded every advertisement in the public media in its duration, every video on TV in its valuation and duration, each poster by number, locality and dimension, the unit prices are known when all these promotional messages are added to those places that are being paid, very easily can be calculated from the outwards of the campaign and compared to the upcoming one. I believe that now with the help of the DIP, this financial control will be even better, even better, and all for the development of democracy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73976	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73977	I haven't been able to say it before, but I'm gonna say it now. Yes, exactly, why the opposition too, why the opposition would be excluded from any control, if necessary from prosecution. But once again, gentlemen, let's not pack unargumented simple procedures. Clear and pack, pack, pack. We have before us this Law on the financing of political activities and amendments to the promotion with the final proposal for a law. The first thing I want to say is, the government was considering him yesterday, and here's the date of May 19, 2011, today we're 20. What we were hoping for during yesterday that we would get the date when Croatia will conclude negotiations with Europe, but instead of the date we received this law. Otherwise, it is one thing to complete the negotiations, the other to enter Europe, we read before today 1.7.2013 most likely before 2014, we will not enter Europe, and then someone should really ask themselves who has made it possible for Croatia to enter Europe even 14 years after our first Slovenian neighbours. But let's let it go now. Earlier, the minister also said the law is one of the conditions for Croatia's entry into the European Union. I said yesterday the government, so on May 19th, was reviewing this law during, yesterday afternoon this law was included in the parliamentary procedure, this morning an expeditionive parliamentary committee gave a confirmatory opinion, and now at 10 o'clock and 15 or 20 minutes the debate on the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions began. Clearly and I want to say this law does not require Europe, one such law and these legal solutions are primarily needed in Croatia. The supervision of work and political parties understandably must be carried out, as it seemed practice, may be discussed by someone, but recently examples of Mr. Sanader's mention, Barisic, have simply testified. If it hadn't been for that, probably HDZ wouldn't be in power today, you'd be an opposition, and probably this country, if it had been called happily, would have been a little bit more orderly. There is when we talk about this financing and the problem of tycoon financing individual choices, when these same people have the media, when they have or affect the writing of certain journalists, when they control houses for distribution, etc. When, for example, it will be. to announce who was also giving money from these black funds to a television set. So it can almost be said that this law of Europe has been sought by the HDZ. However, regardless of all, as is necessary for the sake of HDZ, this law should be registered for the purposes of the IDS, SDP, HSS, CNS and any other party, as well as those which will be registered and appear in that Register of Parties or Registers and which will also participate in the political promotion for the next elections. Personally, I feel that even more rigorous legislation is needed, not only on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activity but also in conflict of interest. Of course there are absurd provisions there, for example. Giving away banking secrets, etc., but good. The fact is also to be pointed out that in other countries, both Italy and Germany, so here if I'm not mistaken, one Kohl has almost ended up in prison four times chosen for the prime minister of a great Germany, who united Germany precisely because of these financial moments. What do I want to say? Elections are made in both the world and Croatia. So money is also being won in the United States, Obama is reportedly going to spend more than $1 billion on the upcoming elections for the first time in history. If you believe it, as I know, to one Gaddafi, even he invested in European elections, in European politicians not to mention the same and not to talk about which countries it is. So, no money, no power. Without money, there's no government in Austria, there's no government in Germany, there's no in America, there's no in Italy, there's no in France, and we know for a fact that no one would win power without money, not even in the Republic of Croatia. So, the pattern isn't ours, it's been passed on, and maybe we're the ones who perfected that pattern in those early years of our democracy. Funding political campaigns or party campaigns is understandable that one is a democratic gain, but I agree that it should be regulated because if these relations are not regulated, why should they also be regulated? Then the kid will never be able to track big political parties with his finances. Clearly, a lot would change by direct elections in this country, then these funds could be significantly smaller, if they played more on individuals, and less on imaginary party stamps. Without money we all know you can't get to television, you can't be in the media, you can't have those videos, you can't have posters. One word with no money, you're almost undetectable in the election game. Who has the money, who has the media at this point in the Republic of Croatia? Perhaps those who have authority in this country can control their behavior, for example. Some public institutions or media, on the other hand, the media's money in this country is largely controlled by tycoons who are increasingly expressing certain and political ambitions to keep what they have gained from politics. Only one kind of democracy or worse than a party democracy, which is the tycoon democracy. When these tycoons sort themselves out, then they really don't grow any more. How much can an election in the Republic of Croatia cost? We know that presidential elections per new can cost up to 8 million kuna, elections for the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia per election unit a million and a half kuna, which means 16.5 with that 11th electoral unit, local elections can reach the figure and 70 and 80 million kuna as much as they can spend, for example. One party, and all of us, let's face it, we know that the strongest parties for parliamentary elections have spent far more money than these mentioned now and the estimated 16.5 million kuna. That's why we need public television where no one will be dependent on capital, not on power, not on parties, because without public television, small political entities simply don't have the opportunity to express their personality. However, what I will say once again, if I do not read the provisions of this law, indeed, gentlemen is not the time to play with the institutions, it is not the time tomorrow nor tomorrow for any rematchism as I will also say why normally and someone from the opposition would not be or prosecuted, why would not be supervised, why would not I also not know any other measure of police or criminal surveillance have been carried out. But please, let's not pack each other, especially not abuse the institutions of government. What is this law talking about? We know that the total amount of donation, I quote, of legal persons to one political party and candidate for elections for the President of the Republic can now be up to 200 thousand kuna in the calendar year. The total amount of the donation of the legal person to an independent representative, the representative of national minorities, etc., may be up to 100 thousand kuna. The financing of political parties, independent representatives, etc., by foreign states, foreign political parties, foreign legal persons, natural and legal persons who have outstanding obligations either to employees or to the state or budget shall be prohibited, however. Then, it must not be financed normally by state bodies, public enterprises, workers' associations, employers' associations and foundations etc., foundations representing or representing state officials or officials of local, regional (regional) self-government. We can't get money from religious communities, we can't get good from them, there's no fear, etc. Now, what's so important? The State Audit Office has so far carried out an audit under this law, and from now on it will be audited or controlled to express the work of the political parties to be carried out by the State Election Commission, which can permanently request the necessary information from the State Office which could so far request information from the State Audit Office, and according to me, only to find the proposed provisions in the future, it will be able to do so in permanently by the State Election Commission. Now it's only a matter of whether they're qualified for one such oversight for one such work. As far as the State Audit is concerned, it is clear that it is unequivocally qualified for this, but whether this State Election Commission is qualified, whether this conflict of interest committee is qualified to check accounts in business banks etc. These are some moments that we should normally discuss. There is a kind of responsibility, etc., but no matter what, not only because this legislative proposal is one of the preconditions for Croatia to simply join the European Union or to better say, to conclude these pre-accession negotiations, this legislative proposal is primarily needed by ourselves. Whether our political parties, or those who will also run for office in some local or state elections the next day.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73978	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's how many colleagues of Kai's have argued how he said it, just to correct two allegations. He first said that we would enter the European Union in 2014 which is not true, we will enter 2013. Secondly, he said that we will enter 14 years after Slovenia, so the basic data, he does not know that Slovenia entered the European Union in 2004 as part of the enlargement when 10 countries entered the European Union, here is how much Kai's argumentatively spoke. Furthermore, I think that you insult Croatian citizens and demean when you say that money is the one that wins the election, Croatian citizens know the platform of all parties well, and that is not the case, some elections show, say, the richest country such as the United States, where multibillionaires also compete and have never passed the elections. Therefore, do not belittle the common sense of Croatian voters. And third, there's no need for you to sneak in so much to your SDP partners here, posing as a judge who knows who's innocent and who's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73980	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73981	Now he's got a Rules of Procedure and I haven't even started. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] But he said she was looking for HDZ. That's incorrect. Surely this law is needed for our sake, transparent funding, but it is good that the European Commission has welcomed and has no objection to such a law. But from your debate, I'm reading your concerns about IDS financing. I believe that you don't have that much difficulty because if you achieve your intention to collect that tax for those who think differently about Ucka, there will be as much money as you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73982	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73983	If there were fewer like you, there would certainly be more money. In Istria and throughout the Republic of Croatia. But I want to tell him something, I said without money I can't get... [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73984	My colleague Cain, so every time you do a breach of the Rules of Procedure, every performance you perform is a violation of the Rules of Procedure when you report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You regularly polarize, replicate under the company's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Club representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73985	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this Legislative Proposal because we believe it defines more precisely the supervision of the financing of political parties, independent representatives, representatives of national minorities and independent members of the unit of local and regional self-government during the year. In this regard, the role of the State Election Commission in this matter is regulated. It is proposed that the State Election Commission also oversees the annual financial operations and annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives, representatives of national minorities and independent members of the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government. It is also determined that the amount of donations that go beyond the legal amounts and which the donor pays during the year, other than the State Audit Office, are also reported to the State Election Commission as well as donations paid from unauthorized sources. The Croatian Peasant Party club supports all efforts to better and clearer the area in order to prevent any possibility of non-transparent business. Political parties and politicians are obliged to explain to the public, prove to them where money for funding can be returned to the transparency of finances by Croatian citizens who often consider people who are mostly interested in their own breakthrough and the duty entrusted to them by a mere means of obtaining power and material benefits and are precisely the finances of political parties and, in particular, the financing of political promotions are often the subject of criticism from the general public. In fact, if policy is defined as a concern for the general good, unfortunately the perception of the public is that politicians are more concerned about the welfare of only some and very concrete material good, so the transparency of the amount as well as the way the financial resources of candidates or political parties are spent, in the election campaign, is an important factor of public oversight in the election process, as well as an indicator of the degree of democraticity of the elections. When this year's Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion was adopted in February, a system of independent supervision of the financing of political activities of electoral promotion of political parties, independent representatives, representatives of national minorities, independent members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, or independent lists and candidates was established. They are provided with transparency and control which will ultimately contribute to greater citizens' confidence in the action of political parties and we have also drawn closer to the norms and practices of the European countries. Since the legal solutions at that time have been upgraded in those issues that have been inadequately arranged until then. The law thus provides for the supervision and audit of the DIP and the State Audit Office. The DIP, in cooperation with the relevant electoral committees, oversees compliance with the provisions of the law relating to election promotion. Financial accounts relating to the financing of election promotion, collection of donations and the cost of election promotion, as well as other activities related to the financing of election promotion of political parties, independent lists and independent candidates. It is also determined that the DIP monitors the financing of the electoral promotion from the day of the opening of the special account for the financing of the electoral promotion until the end of transactions over these accounts or the end of the elections. In addition, the DIP shall carry out supervision through other competent authorities which may request the necessary information as well as the taking of the necessary actions, and the competent authorities shall provide all requested data and findings within the requested time limit. In addition, the State Audit Office shall carry out an audit of the annual financial operations and annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives, representatives of national minorities, independent members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government as well as independent candidates and lists, as well as all other tasks of its competence given to the State Audit Office. We at the HSS Club believe that this solution will further define the supervision of annual financial operations and financial reports of political parties, independent lists and independent representatives, as well as members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, and make clear that the requested requirements we have received from the EU are more up-to-date. We therefore believe that it will also contribute to the conclusion and conclusion of these negotiations. The HSS Club will therefore support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73986	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73987	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In principle, all amendments and additions to the rules defining the transparent financing of political activities and election promotions are highly acceptable to the HNS club of liberal Democrats and HSU. However, changing the law on which there was so much public talk three months after it was passed testifies that we did not do a good job. Or that the proposer, which is not the first time, shows that he is actually unprepared to do the job well when he needs to be done and ready not to listen to what he is told when he is told, because he listens to who is speaking, not what he is saying. It is not the first time, but in this particular case, what is surprising is the fact that the provisions which create a whole set of new commitments for DIP are introduced to the DIP in addition to 1 in order to prepare it without any consultation with the DIP. Professional DIP members are embodied with this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and I cannot believe that this is the night to force changes and supplements that will be completely unprepared for this type of task overnight. What's this about? The business of financial control of all political parties, lists and candidates who are assigned to these amendments and amendments to the laws overnight or 8 days from the day of adoption, or when it is published in the National Journal, that job is, say, 30 people in the State Audit Office, 6 months after the last local elections, 30 people, 6 months. And today, this task is given to the DIP, which only has four new employees in the reception process. And it is said that no additional resources are needed to implement this law. So you really think we can't read the papers and we can't read the report. This is not a law that you fund with correct information, and in this sense it is not good to pass a regulation for which the DIP is not prepared at all. I hope that behind the proposal, he was the kind of person who stood up to the sincere desire of the people most responsible in political terms in the name of the ruling party to at least partially redeem their conscience for what happened in recent years and what the investigative procedures are being conducted against, and the racketeering of state firms is being discussed. I hope that behind this is the sincere desire of people in the ruling party to never again happen to the public sector, that the public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia become a hostage to the financial needs of the ruling party when it comes to elections regardless of whether it is parliamentary, local or presidential elections. I sincerely hope that all those who will sit in this Parliament tomorrow will have at least more respect for their work, their mission and what the voter has given them when he voted for them or the Constitution when he defined their role and that he will contribute to returning at least a grain of respect to politics and politicians. Because the way that political parties, political campaigns, independent MPs, election promotions have been financed so far, but also the way you've brought it back to the citizens through the work in this House, and today we've heard words that are beneath the dignity of the parliamentary representatives, where luck is that the next parliamentary mandate begins people who will hold to the dignity of the house where they work and in which it is an honor to pay them and to do the honors given to them by the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73988	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Beus incorrectly claims to say that the promoter shows that it is unprepared to do the job well. It's a very incorrect allegation because Mr. Beus, I must remind you that so far the issue of financing electoral promotion has been arranged in five different laws. Of course, this was incomplete, and the new law uniformly established legislation in the area of financing of electoral promotion, entirely and in a unique way, for all elections where the right to compensation for election costs from national or local or regional, local and regional self-government budgets is determined according to the criteria of results achieved in the elections. Laws in the field of public administration such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure have also been adopted, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Right access to Information with a view to achieving greater transparency of the public administration, as has been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is a proposal in line with constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73990	SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament will vote for the bill for two reasons. The first is, this proposal is another step in building formal legal frameworks for fair elections in the Republic of Croatia i.e. One step in building a system that ensures that elections are fair, but let us not forget that it has been 20 years since the introduction of multilaterals and independence and democracy in the Republic of Croatia. We're still going to vote for it, it's one step. Secondly, this amendment and the addition of the law are on track or is in line with the requirements of the SDP club. When a law is passed which is being amended at the same time, it is very sad to say, perhaps too difficult to say, that the Croatian Parliament is changing the Law on the financing of political parties to the European Union's intervention at the last minute. And at least ten times we could have solved it by now because there were suggestions in that direction. There were suggestions in that direction. Unfortunately, it seems to me that we are self-representing insufficient courage and determination to deal with corruption when it is in our own ranks. The third thing I'm saying is, this bill of law really is only on a formal level and meets the needs of a formal level. Those who know the conditions under which the State Election Commission is working cannot expect effective implementation of the Law on the financing of political parties and political activities of election promotion in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the requirement is now and always has been that in real time, not post-festum, documents and their logical consistency can be controlled by electoral promotion and financing of election promotion. Whether the State Election Commission has been trained to go to a political party or a television house or another media house during the campaign itself and check and minutes of the leased time, price and payment. If it isn't, we haven't done what we want, and without it, it's hard to talk with pride about fair elections. If we add that, after 20 years of Croatian democracy and multilaterals, we haven't arranged the lists of voters, whether or not I should come to say so, so let's sort it out in a way that is regulated by countries that have the legitimacy of democratic and fair and democratic elections. There's one more question I'm asking the proposer's representative to answer, and I don't have any, and I haven't found any rational reason with my efforts why it's left. This is Article 22 of the current law, which is amended by this novel, but is left to sponsors, donors can be natural persons from abroad. So it is not forbidden for the Germans, the Swedish, the French, the English and the Chinese, even more so because it is not even limited to the countries of the European Union, but you can donate to Croatia a political party from any country in the world without having any reason or rational explanation as to why it stands. And I wouldn't want to speculate why it's left. I can document that I have at least three times asked to rule it out or to explain why it remains in the law. At the same time, I can understand why, and it is said that this is at the request of the European Union, the principle of corruption in Article 1: donations in money is paid by the donor. Well, because of the experience we had from Fimi-media and HDZ. And I support that, of course. So, I'm afraid that even after this law has been passed that we support, in two or three months, the addition of this law will come again, and the possibility of donations being made by natural persons will be excluded, citizens of countries outside Croatia, no matter where it comes from, because there is no real or rational explanation. In the end, it really should be said that building a legal framework takes a long time. If the implementation takes as long as is said to be modern in real life, there will be more problems in the Republic of Croatia with elections, including with reviews of these elections from either country or abroad. But every step forward is welcome so the Social Democratic Party, or the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73992	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73993	Dear Vice-President, as far as this law is concerned, the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions will certainly be on trial for the first time in the coming elections in order to prevent non-transparent financing of political parties and independent candidates. The proposed amendment and supplementation of the law highlights the role of the State Election Commission as the central body of the electoral process. The State Election Commission, with the State Audit Office, will control the regularity of donations that pass the legal amounts allowed as well as donations paid from unauthorised sources, as well as annual financial operations and the political parties' and independent representatives' report at both national and local level. Such an orderly area of control of the financing of political parties and independent candidates, and later independent representatives will significantly reduce the space for various corruption games and that is precisely what this Government of the Republic of Croatia is after, and that is the fight against corruption. Although the amount of donations is threefold reduced or fivefold the amount of donation by a legal person, this introduces enhanced financial control, and I believe that finally and financially, certain companies, public enterprises, private companies, as well as individual entrepreneurs, who are exposed to various pressures in each election with the demands they will make, donate money to a political party or individual in an election campaign. Such a pressurizing way of extracting donations for parties and individuals was in fact the beginning of the planting of corruption whose fruits donors expect normally after the election victory. It is important that such corrupt harvests will no longer be counted on in the financing of the presidential campaign, and even though the donation has been reduced. The greater transparency of financial control must prevent so far various speculations and blurring donations and the election account of political parties. The next for political victory must primarily be competence and honesty, not the wealth of individual parties or individuals in election campaigns. And finally, I believe that this is the European Commission that has requested, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to strengthen the control of the State Election Commission of Finance, the good thing that has been done and you know that it has asked a question before counterpart Leko how the State Election Commission will enter political parties and control finances. Well, it doesn't have to be done by the State Election Commission. That's why the law says it can be done by the State Election Commission through other competent authorities. So you don't have to be afraid if they can do it human or how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73994	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I support any progress that will improve the supervision, control, financing of political parties and all those involved in the election game. These amendments to the law came in a very fast procedure, because the European bureaucracy said that we must complete this not-so-old law. But I must warn that this law, in certain provisions, is particularly inconclusive of Article 10(5). And this is a classic example when Europe imposes certain game rules on one area, because it is not familiar with the environment and system of financing, collating funds through accounts. Indeed, this law in the implementing sense should be followed and read together with the Regulation adopted by the Minister of Finance as a sublaw for the enforcement and compliance of this Act. What it's about. Article 10(5) states that political parties must keep records of all donors, whether they are donations to finance the political party’s regular activities or specific donations to finance political promotion, or election promotions or campaigns. In its Regulation, the Minister of Finance has operationally accounted for the data the political party must monthly for each donation payment. Among other things, she also prescribed forms and stated that these were data, regular number, name and last name, name, address of residence or residence, seat, OIB natural or legal person, payment date, amount paid, and so there are 10 points of mandatory records. If the political party is able to keep records in accordance with the provisions of Article 10(5) and Article 4 respectively. A rule book? I am most responsible to you that it is not possible to do so unless the political party has previously broken at least two laws. What's this about? 14 months of instructions to all members and sympathisers we gave that certainly on the payment card when payment of donations of 15, 20, 50 or 100 kuna put their OIBs, believing that the OIB data would be sufficient to identify donors. However, the largest number of banks, i.e. financial institutions carrying out the transaction in the delivery of the funds, do not contribute to a copy of the payment order or payment order, and as a paymenter information, most often only lists the number of accounts from which the payment came or possibly the OIB of the payer, whether it is a natural or legal person. And when we get a copy of the report on payments received, we see either the account number from which the money came from, or possibly the OIB if the bank officer was so patient that he wrote it down during the transaction. And it happened to us that during the last calendar year of 14 thousand kuna donations, 5 and a half thousand should be paid into the state budget, because we couldn't identify these required data for the payers. We also spoke to the State Audit Office for instructions on what to do now. Their answer was very brief, the law is clear, the money you have to pay in the state budget, and later we will triple the amount of donations received that you don't know who paid you for. There comes a new law and a new rule that is even more rigorous and does not solve a fundamental problem. Namely, the bank or other financial institution refuses to provide information on the payer at the request of the political party. So what now? How do we keep this record if there is no record of payment of such data, and the OIB so solemnly promised system that will enable supervision and control is not sufficient identification information for the legality of the donation to a political party, regardless of whether the payer is a natural or legal person. Now aside from the fact that the OIB does not recognise the Croatian state by this law as sufficient identification data, and when it has an OIB payer, it cannot make an identification through the OIB because it is not authorised, the supervisory authorities that, but the political party is not, in breach, that money must be paid into the state budget and expect whether it will be punished or not. It is clear to me that any amendment that the Government would give will not be able to accept because these amendments are written according to the precise dictatorship of Europe, Brussels. However, in order to make this regulation and the purpose of control of money's entry into the political parties enforceable, I kindly ask you to see with the Minister of Finance that she has made an amendment or addition to the rules she adopted 10 days ago, and the options are two. Either to prescribe a specific form of order or payment for donations to political parties or to oblige financial institutions, or banks, to supply at the request of the political party the information prescribed in Article 4 of the Regulation. So far and at this time there is no regulation that would oblige the bank to deliver these data, there is no other way to identify the payers, and I ask the question of how to implement this obligation under Article 10 of the Law and Article 4 of the Regulation, so that you are not in violation, that the money that citizens, Croatian citizens or legal persons donate to regular political activity does not have to be paid into the state budget pending... Those who have requested and proposed such a solution have obviously forgotten how banks, i.e. financial institutions, report to the payee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So everyone forgot that there was simply no such information in regular reporting, nor did anyone commit to giving it to anyone. And now you're going to force us if there's really no urgent change, to violate two laws that regulate banking by illegal means, we come to that data to satisfy this form. Therefore, please try to make the most of the effort and as soon as possible by intervention in the Rules of Procedure by the Minister of Finance will solve this problem, because otherwise all political parties who receive donations from their sympathisers in best faith, not only will be punished, but that donation will have to be paid into the state budget, just because there is another regulation, another obligation for the party to receive that donation and the data prescribed by the Regulation to be kept as mandatory data. I want to believe that those who are responsible for respecting and implementing these regulations, I want to believe that someone in the Ministry of Finance will hear what I am now warning and speaking about, and to implement the correction of the implementing rules as soon as possible and to allow legal, transparent and clean receipt of donations from supporters and citizens of political parties in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73996	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73997	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So the bill that is before us, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Activities and Election Promotion, in fact, regulates the exercise of supervision over the financing of political parties, independent representatives, representatives of national minorities and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government during the year. The adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws, as has been said, is also necessary in order to fulfil the assumptions for the closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and the fundamental rights of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. When we talk about the financing of political parties, of course, and independent representatives from all other entities to which the case and the law applies, that I do not repeat them all, it is an opportunity to say that the new Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, so that which was adopted in February of this year has actually united the legislation until then contained in a number of laws relating to this issue, to the problem of financing political parties, at all levels at which elections are held, from local level, state level, to elections for the European Parliament. The law also precisely regulated the permitted means of acquisition and spending of funds, the conduct of supervision of financial operations, and the supervision and revision of financial reports and financial operations of political parties, so when we talk about political parties, I think of all other entities, as I have said about the law in question and what I consider to be a good step which contributes, which will also contribute in the future, so the transparency of their business. As regards this law in particular, it is proposed to arrange for donations, therefore paid from unauthorized sources during the year, other than the State Audit Office to also be reported to the State Election Commission. It is proposed to establish that the State Election Commission also oversees the annual financial operations and annual financial reports of political parties and that the decision to suspend payments for regular annual financing from the state budget, i.e. in the event of infringement of certain provisions of this law on the proposal of the State Audit Office, i.e. the State Election Commission, shall be adopted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government, therefore at local level. Therefore, given that there are further improvements and the precision of certain norms of the proposed law, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73998	Thank you. We're moving forward with an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u73999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. So I will, of course, say in the introduction that I support this bill, but I will also remind myself of the fact that we have discussed and passed this law in February of this year and its basic characteristic is that it is indeed a modern, good law that respects everything in terms of the control and way of financing of political parties that we have translated into legal norms and, in that sense, really represents one quality law. And these changes and additions only add to those institutes that we have worked out in this basic law and actually improves them, i.e. to specify them. What is this really about, and what norms, which institutes should be highlighted, would I dare say, in both law and law? In the first place, therefore, the ban on anonymous donations with a limitation of financial resources and whether natural or legal persons. Second, the definition and implementation of supervision of the collected but also spent funds in real political time, so also in real political time when these funds are collected and spent. And thirdly, also very important, it is an affirmation of institutions, namely affirmation and the State Election Commission and the State Audit as an institution which, in the process and the collection and spending of these financial resources, has its role in control and has a well-developed law within the meaning of their competences that they can at any moment control the basis of the law, the basis of legal provisions and the collection and use of those funds. I think that this should have been highlighted not only at the principle level but also at a concrete level because these changes are affecting these things or those norms, or articles of the law that we amend in this basic law, especially as regards the rights that we give to the National Election Commission, because it will also be able to control these annual financial reports on the basis of these changes, and all those concerns of the Dahl will have an instrumentation that does so in my opinion is not justified because it is an explicit legal provision that the State Election Commission can carry out, through other bodies and independently, monitor and control everything that is also prescribed to be supervised in terms of financial control itself. Furthermore, some colleagues have mentioned why this law now, whether it is enforceable or not? It is my opinion that this law is absolutely enforceable if the enforceability of a particular regulation, therefore, puts this important regulation in the context of a sublegal act, a regulation of such or such a content of a problem is not available. Because very simply these acts as sublegislative acts can be changed, and all those perceived shortcomings in the sense of the implementation of certain legal provisions can therefore and quickly and efficiently change in order to achieve the purpose and purpose of the law itself. And this is primarily the control of the funds spent, the way they are spent and the ban on anonymous donations, regardless of whether these donations are made by natural or legal persons. So, and in conclusion, this law in terms of amending and supplementing the basic law absolutely needs to be supported and stressed, and why we should not say that if it really is so, that in terms of financing political parties, in terms of controlling the collection of funds, in terms of controlling spending and not only during the financial year when there is no choice but in both the course and the course of election activities, this law is certainly a good tool, a quality tool that all these controls can be done absolutely and in real political time. And it is another step to make the system of financing political parties, the system of financing all those entering the election game transparent, clear, but not only that, but to enable mechanisms of control and correcting all those irregularities or illegalities that can occur in these times. So this law absolutely needs support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74000	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 11.29 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So, this law must surely be passed because by this law every newspaper that's here I think is welcome. First of all, we have a limit on financial resources and at this time funding must not be excessively exaggerated in campaigns, and above all, transparency in the campaign is important here. This is where the State Election Commission really got a lot more work now, but as it says in the law, it will be achieved through other mechanisms. So he can empower someone to give him reports. So far, it's only been going to the State Audit where we've received a good review, but I don't think the State Election Commission has had such a good look at everything that's going on here while here in the Continuity Eve will be able to monitor the financing and the parties, the financing of political actors throughout the year, and it'll be much easier for them to control it on their own, all the events that happen in the campaign. In fact, this law is also necessary because the conditions for the criteria of closing chapters 23. So I think it will contribute and I think it's perfectly consistent, and we know the problems in all the campaigns so far have been quite a bit. Namely, after each campaign, it resisted a political opponent and accused in every way possible that the campaign was more luxurious compared to the financial indicators presented by the parties after the campaign. I think there's a lot to be controlled here if the media is also transparent because at last the most money goes to the media and to advertising companies and it can be checked out. So we know that there have been parties that have had an extremely luxurious campaign of general surprise, and that the sources have never been discovered, we finally remember campaigns at the highest level and for the former president of the state for which we do not yet know the sources of funding, and we will never know which will always remain the subject of speculation. And I think it was good for him and for the public to find out. Lower-level politicians were also able to spend money from different donors, unnamed donors, and they had to report everything and yet to achieve as much equality as possible. I think we're all going to accept it, that all these changes that are in there that are the most authorized by the State Election Commission that they're good and that we're going to vote today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74002	Thank you. It's our guest, Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The reason for the adoption of this Act, such as the Minister himself in the introduction, has highlighted the need to bring such amendments to this Act as a new condition for closing Chapter 23 at the last moment. In fact, the fact is that recently the previous law whose amendments have been passed was also information that this law is in line with the requirements of the European Union and that it is recently adopted as one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23, but the fact that new conditions are being laid down in the finale of the negotiations right now, it also speaks of something else. It speaks of an obvious intention, above all, of some members of the European Union, and is already openly talking about what these are, who are seeking in any law the reason that Croatia cannot complete the negotiations and that certain laws must be amended. On the one hand, the policy options prone to Croatia's entry into the European Union will probably need to propose parliamentary duty, which will be permanently sitting 24 hours a day to amend certain laws. That raises two questions. It is one of the qualities of the amendments to the laws themselves and the content of the laws that will be changed in this way, while on the other hand it raises the question of the impact of Croatian diplomacy in preventing such conditions which have entirely other reasons. The reasons for this are not in the content of the law, but in some other interests, and then it wants to respond to Croatia in such a way that it does not meet the conditions of different standards is precisely this chapter 23. As far as the text of the law itself is concerned, it is likely that no one is disputed that the State Election Commission itself is working on certain control systems. The question is how will the State Election Commission carry out these controls, but there are no employees trained for financial controls. IS there any change in the composition of the State Election Commission that will appoint them or be in charge of certain bodies remains to be seen? No one is likely to mind more detailed control, but when it comes to this whole process of controlling the financing of political parties, the electoral promotion of it is probably not known at this time. The Law itself has also provided for dragon penalties for cases and most banal violations so that it has become an extremely demanding, serious system and, if so applied, a number of policy options which are not widespread, which are just entering a political campaign will certainly have not only minor problems but will be subject to the adoption of a number of criminal provisions against them. All in all, the content of the law of Croatia is not questionable, there is no reason not to support it, what bothers us is the way in which the European Union refers at the last moments to the laws that Croatia has adopted in this process and that there is a constant demand for some reason why Croatia would not apply to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74004	And last in an individual debate, Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, perhaps a little recalling the last few years of some history of the creation of this Law that is before us today, so today's amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities of election promotion, we know that it is in 2006. Croatia has adopted one serious programme against corruption, the first serious programme with precisely established measures, entities in charge of implementing their terms, deadlines for implementation, etc. One of the measures under the 2006 programme was also the adoption of a special law on the financing of political parties, and if you remember the law adopted at that time for the first time, anonymous donations are prohibited, these donations are limited to natural and legal persons, at that time in a much larger amount than this new basic law is provided for. This law has been a major step towards curbing possible corruption policy in the event of the receipt of anonymous donations not transparent or uncontrolled spending of these funds in the electoral promotion and activity of political parties. The question was already raised whether political activity or the electoral activity of the parties was, in fact, during the party's overall action and during that inter-election period of 4 years, or whether provisions should be laid down in particular for the financing of the political campaign itself, so the collection of donations, the collection of funds for the political campaign and the control of their spending. It is precisely on the trail of these remarks, as well as the revised Anti-Corruption Strategy 2008 and later in 2010 the result is a whole new law dealing with the problem of financing political parties, which is now called the Law on the financing of all political activities with specific provisions for financing and controlling spending in election promotion. Therefore, these basic laws limit donations to significantly lower amounts than they were before and resolves the issue of supervision. Namely, one of the long-standing remarks was established by the first proposal of the Law on the financing of political parties we introduced control by the Tax Administration or the Ministry of Finance and by the State Audit. He was then objecting that the IRS and the Ministry of Finance cannot be completely objectively controlled because they are nevertheless executive power and as such may be subject to ruling parties or ruling parties whoever it is and tends to introduce an independent and impartial supervision. In this respect, the proposal of the basic law therefore established a series of provisions which are primarily provided for in the control of donations, the limitation of donations which ensure effective control of the spending of funds precisely for those intended by this law and the control of the collection of funds. Today we have a law that is very short, it is changed in several provisions but all in the wake of clearer determinations of precisely those provisions that reflected the meaning, nature and intensity of the adoption of a new law in 2011. I am also absolutely in favour of this amendment in Article 11(2), where it had a passive statement, so donations are paid to replace it for the donor to pay donations. This may not be necessary because this law in Article 22, but since it is at the other end of the law to say so, it may be difficult for someone to see from this article. However, Article 22 has already been established in the existing law to prohibit anonymous donations and to prohibit donations in cash or in some form of product through third parties, therefore, intermediaries. We have the current law, so the prohibition of anonymous donations, the ban on donations through intermediaries, but this statement now in the amended Article 11 in paragraph 2 simply explains the situation that may have been questionable so that someone else's name could pay a donation, so in fact, let's kind of clouded who the real donor is. With such an expression, that doubt is completely eliminated. Therefore, it is clearly said that this donation is paid by a donor clearly at the expense of a political party or an independent representative, etc. And these other amendments actually strengthen this control with the State Audit as a completely independent body in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. It extends to another additional control of the DIP also as an independent body. We have heard today that without the consent of the DIP, they are thus dramatically increasing their work, that they are not teamed up and ready for it. These were objections and were then set out in the draft basic law that the DIP exercise control over the spending of election promotion funds. But that's a fact-finding solution. Therefore, simply from the system of state administration, persons who previously did so in the Tax Administration have now been transferred to the DIP and are doing the same jobs within another body. Equally this way will be solved, will have to team up the DIP is going to be serious financial controls all the time, not just during the election promotion. But if we will, and we will, a transparent collection, transparent spending in accordance with this law of money and in all political activities, all political parties and independent representatives, then we need to ensure and ensure these mechanisms and in reality ensure that they are able to carry out the work that this law gives them. For all the reasons because it's only about improving the pronunciation that could better achieve the meaning of the basic law, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74006	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague in the part where she analyzed all the laws that were in force so far compared to how she referred to doubts or different legal decisions on supervision. In that sense, and in my opinion, the quality of this law and the law we voted on in February of this year, because it and the surveillance process itself defines one completely different way, another way by me, a more quality way. So, by removing or withdrawing supervision in terms of funding and spending collected funds from the executive authority by defining two independent bodies, it is therefore the State Audit that we... in the Constitution with its powers and... [[You don't understand.]] the special law, but also the State Election Commission, in fact, we have legally defined control in a better and more quality way in my opinion. [[You don't understand.]] So that's the question that's been removed, I don't think there's any doubt, I think this is a more acceptable legal solution, and all those concerns about whether the State Election Commission will have the capacity, have the opportunity to carry out this surveillance work, my opinion is yes. And in all those situations where it really won't be possible, either because of inequitableness, the volume of work or the scale of political events that occur at a certain time, it will certainly be able to work on the basis of this law, asking for cooperation and requiring other bodies to do so as explicitly and legally provided. So in conclusion, in terms of the replica itself, I absolutely support your debate, I absolutely support all the important points you've touched, and especially this one, I would now say the resolved doubt about the supervision, the manner of monitoring and the definition of those independent bodies that will carry out that surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74008	Replication response, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, buddy, we totally agree here. Perhaps we should just point out that we have already been fundamental, fundamentally this law we have completely avoided controlling the political activities of the electoral promotion, so we have completely removed it from the executive bodies, so the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration. That little thing that may have remained questionable, which is actually completely resolved by these changes, which is a provision in article 27 that spoke precisely because it was thought that the State Election Commission would not be sufficiently capacitated for all these financial supervisions. So far, the provision said that the State Electoral Commission is carrying out surveillance through other competent authorities, in which case it could be suspected that these other executive bodies are actually monitoring the State Election Commission. It is now significant, almost excellently corrected by the provision that the State Election Commission conducts control and verification through public authorities in the exercise of control. Therefore, it is said that the supervision remains with the State Election Commission and that it can use the capacity of personnel and ines to carry out verification and control through other state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74010	Thank you. Final review, Minister Davor Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am obliged to answer something that is highlighted in the debate and say something in the introduction. We're not talking about the Finance Act. We're just talking about this amendment and supplemental proposal. I thank the esteemed representative Lovrin for saying one part of what I was saving for the final address, and then I'll cut it short and skip it. But I think it's important to say a few things. There has never been a system set up to control the financing of the work of political parties, let alone election promotions at all levels when it comes to elections, so whether it's central government or local self-government units, and I think it's the first major contribution to what you've been saying, the fight against corruption that has always been suspected in pre-election matches. This is a law that will act on all parties. So first, I thank everyone who supports the law. We believe that he will introduce a lot more order in the work of political parties, in the work of candidates in the elections that so far, we are all witnesses to that, there was a reasonable doubt that this job was not done in the most proper way possible. This is a law that will certainly introduce new criteria, new criteria and much greater order and legality in electoral promotion, but also in the continued work of political parties over the years in which there is no choice or no election promotion. What is addition to this law, if you would just let me say, the Prime Minister has announced that the government will work if it takes 24 hours a day to meet all of our obligations to join the Republic of Croatia. And what he was saying in one part of his presentation, Agent Cain, quoting the dates is exactly what we are ready and we are doing if it takes day and night to meet the criteria we hold worthy of in Croatia, which Croatia supports. These are not as some say only the criteria in order to join the European Union. This is a condition for closing, or one of the criteria in Chapter 23, but that is also what we hold to be a good and quality solution in our law. What makes this addition to the law is that it would not lead to confusion because it was said in some statements where some MPs may not have understood it very well. The State Audit Office shall have constitutionally guaranteed independence, a special position as a service and shall audit the business of political parties and candidates. They can't control and monitor daily funding. And that's why this job is now, apart from the election promotion, somehow assigned if you want to the State Election Commission and beyond election promotion, so during the work of political parties. What is also important to say and has become questionable has already been said by Mrs. Lovrin. It is not true that this law requires new financial commitments and that it collects or places new burdens on the state budget. Moreover, if we had accepted the idea of forming a special independent body with new experts, this would mean additional costs to the state budget, and this is how those personnel that the State Election Commission needs to control the financing of political parties will de facto be transferred from the system to those people who have experience in this work, who exist. For example, it's just the IRS. It can be from some other bodies and will be deployed to work in the National Election Commission. This is why we argue that there is no increase in costs, and that is why this bill is made up. The State Election Commission will exercise control and supervision directly. They will be able to give orders to all bodies who otherwise do so in a job description to carry out controls when they consider it necessary to control each individual account or each individual financing of any party or any candidate. That's why we hold that, I say this solution technically if you want a slightly improved text of the law, etc. We believe that it is good, that it introduces order and control into this activity throughout, and that is why I call you here on this occasion, if possible, or I believe that it is out of the majority's statement that you support this law, because we believe that this law introduces more order. And only in the end. And so did Agent Lesar. The technical implementation of the law since we never had such a system, of course, that we would need some additional editing and coordination. In the specific case which he was referring to, we believe that it is possible and simplest, and that is to say, the Regulation which brings the Minister of Finance will then determine exactly what data in banks should be indicated in order for a donation to be considered legal and not to be in the process of reviewing such amounts. Here, I thank you for everything you said in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-20-0.u74012	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities of election promotion is proposed by the Government. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities of the electoral promotion. Please, let's get on with it. What's the score? With 90 votes for, and 2 abstentions, and one against the proposed law.
