ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. We have yet another law in the area of justice, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. The Law on Court Taxes has so far been amended on two occasions, but today in 2003, there has been a change of procedural rules, primarily the Law on the Procedural Procedure, as well as the Law on Land Books, which has been introduced by new procedural institutes. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes primarily relate to the acceleration of the procedure for the payment of an unpaid court fee. Under the current law, the procedure for the collection of unpaid court fees was conducted by the branch office of the Ministry of Finance's Tax Administration. However, with effect from 1 January 2011, the Financial Agency shall implement the law implementing the implementation of the financial assets, i.e. the reduced FINA. In the light of the fact that the Act on the implementation of the law on financial assets is significantly accelerated by the procedure of enforcement, these amendments and additions to the Law on Court Fees are proposed to amend the procedure for the payment of unpaid court fees in such a way as for the Court to decide on the duties contained in the order of the parties to pay the amount of the tax within the prescribed time limit at the expense of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia as well as the order of the Financial Agency for the implementation of the conduct of the party's financial assets from all its accounts and the money allocated in the event that the party does not pay the due fee. Where a party does not pay a fee within the prescribed time limit or does not notify the court without delay, the court will, within a further 8 days, place an enforcement decision on the fee and forward it to the Financial Agency for the purpose of carrying out the audit on the party's cash assets in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the implementation of the budget. These amendments and additions to the laws would significantly speed up the payment of unpaid court fees, and only in the event that the Financial Agency does not carry out the conduct of the payment procedure within a year on the financial assets and the means of the party will the solution for payment of the court fee be provided to the competent authority of the IRS in respect of the residence or headquarters of the party, as well as the parties for the implementation of the exercise on its entire property according to the rules on the forced collection of taxes. The second part of the amendment and addition of this Act stems from the need to bring the Law on Court Taxes in line with the amendments to procedural regulations and the Law on litigation and the Law on Land Books. It was therefore necessary to indicate in the tariff of court fees which is an integral part of this law in certain tariff numbers the new submissions submitted by the parties to the court, i.e. to determine the court fees which are due to the parties to those submissions and to pay. The increase in the court fee is also necessary in the section relating to the land-booking process, for the purpose of further modernising land-based books and the completion of the land-book reform project with the ultimate aim of increasing the effectiveness of the land-booking process and the land-book administration and the legal certainty of real estate citizens, especially through the establishment of a land-book database and land-based books in electronic form. In the tariff of court fees, it is also necessary to regulate the payment of the court fee and for the judgment for deafness, for the judgment on the grounds of denials which were not covered by the amendments so far and the additions of the Law on Court Fees, and also fall within the circle of the so-called ‘Court Taxes’. the judgment on the basis of party dispositions, together with the ruling on the grounds of the absence and the judgment on the basis of recognition. Since such judgments are not preceded by the whole litigation procedure, it is prescribed that the payment of fees in these cases is also in a small amount. The payment of charges for appeal and review against the verdict and the appeal against a settlement in disputes over the interference of the property, in the amount of the claim brought and the action brought, was increased by 100%. These amendments, which increase the fees compared to the amount of 25% in respect of the existing legal solution, seek to detimise the impact on the application of legal remedies, continue to extend the duration of the procedure and in an indirect manner and to encourage and act on the conclusion of court settlements as a peaceful solution to the dispute in the first instance in which the interests of both parties are respected in the proceedings. A significant newspaper in this law is that a court fee adopted during a first-degree procedure is not subject to a court fee, a pardon to actually be made at a first-degree settlement if the parties do not pay a court fee in the first instance, so they are exempt from the payment of a court fee. This provision, however, aims to foster a peaceful solution to disputes between parties and to make court settlements in such a way as to contribute to the discharge of courts and the effectiveness of the judiciary in general. In accordance with the Law on Land Books, an increase in the fee for submissions which is required to be entered in the land book, booklets or notes or to delete them for 20 kunas from the existing 50 kuna to 70 kuna, as well as the introduction of a fee for enrolment in the EOP land book of 50 kuna. This amendment complies with the termological provisions of the Law on Court Taxes with the provisions of the Law on Land Books. This law also proposes to increase the fee for appeal against a decision requiring entry into the land book or erasure from the land book by 50 kuna, from the existing 250 kuna to 300 kuna. In relation to the provisions of the existing tariff number 17, the text of this provision has been amended by taking the form of the Law on Court Fees due to different interpretations of existing provisions. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. It is also proposed to increase the fee for land-book extracts issued at the request of the party for 30 kuna, from the existing 20 kuna to 50 kuna, as well as the introduction of the payment of the land-book tax issued at the request of the party of 30 kuna and the payment of the fee for historical extracts from the digital land book and for historical extracts from the land-book database also in the amount of 30 kuna. For the purposes of verifying the copy or copy of the document contained in the collection of documents, a fee of 20 kuna shall be prescribed regardless of the number of half-arraks of the originals. A fee of 50 kuna shall also be prescribed for the purpose of verifying the signatures of the hand-run land book, and a fee of 30 kuna shall be prescribed for the verification of the copy. Since the current tariff on court charges did not provide for a court fee to apply for the appointment of a permanent court expert or a permanent court interpreter. A court fee of 100 kuna shall be prescribed on application, and a fee of 200 kuna shall be fixed for the decision to appoint a permanent court expert, i.e. the appointment of a permanent court interpreter. This law also provides for a court fee at the request for the storage of the general powers of 100 kuna and for a decision to establish that the general power of attorney is stored in the amount of 200 kuna. In the end, I would like to stress that the adoption of this law certainly does not endanger socially sensitive categories of citizens, and neither is the right to an equal and smooth approach to the court since Article 15 is an article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on court fees which has not been amended by this proposal taxfully lists a whole number of persons who are excluded from the obligation to pay taxes such as workers and subsistence workers in labour disputes, persons with disabilities of the Homeland War, care users and a whole series of taxable persons already want to prevent, above all, the so-called ‘domestic’. adjudicate litigation and disbursement of courts of unnecessary proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73038	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. Do the work bodies want reporters? On behalf of the Legislative Committee, the chairman of the committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 124th session held on 10 May 2011, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 14 April 2011. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law with a proposal to review the possibility of including court fees for administrative dispute cases in the preparation of the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73040	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73041	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 62nd session held on 10 May 2011, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Fees, in accordance with the powers laid down in Article 73. Rules of Procedure. Following the opening argument, the committee members unanimously supported the amendments and additions to the Court Tax Act. The opinion is that this proposal should have provided for mechanisms towards stronger protection against judicial litigation by questioning all cases of exemption from the payment of a court fee. It is suggested that the right to compensation for charges in proceedings where there is no other party but that only one party and the court should recognise the complaints brought against the decisions required to be entered in the land book or to delete from the land book or any other right when a complaint was lodged and adopted for the obvious error of the court. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided by 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions: The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes is hereby adopted. Any objections to the proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73042	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73043	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable motions from government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, it is necessary to declare on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club that we will support the adoption of this law in the first reading. Despite the general support of the law, we would like to problem some of the solutions offered in the draft of this law. The proposer himself says that court fees have more goals. Therefore, payment of court fees is intended to achieve more goals before the court. In this law, the Government states some of the goals. It's speeding up the process or detimulating actions in front of the court. So, due diligence or abuse of party and litigation rights. In this sense, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament supports ensuring that court fees are charged as the applicant states. In fact, the truth about the will to conduct money has been significantly accelerated by the latest amendments to the Implementing Law, and it is also necessary to ensure that court fees are charged more effectively in this respect. It is then worth supporting that changes to the procedural rules that have provided for some actions before the court which have not been also paid for them by court fees. It is then good that payment of the fee on appeal, review against the verdict and the solution to disputes on property disturbances should be introduced and increased by 100 per cent. However, or even better to point out that reaching a court settlement is stimulated by fees. That's what we support. So there's no payment of a court fee if a settlement is reached, court settlement which is very good. This is in terms of objectives that can be achieved by court fees a very good attempt to settle disputes in court settlements. However, as far as increasing tariffs are concerned, it is known in Croatia that courts and land books are not regulated, that the right of land books is not entered for many reasons, and that one of the most important economic measures is to take care of land books, to enter all property rights, including burdens and others in land books, to raise the price of taxes, and even to be 100% and no longer stimulating for what we want. Namely, court fees must not be pro fiscus, in favour of the budget alone, that is not their purpose. It is not possible to raise money from court fees as much as it needs a state budget, to watch and watch what is achieved by increasing, so with a strong increase in court fees, and the price of individual fees itself, 300 kuna is not insignificant to Croatian standards. I think that it would be wise for this stage to say that Croatia's legal system does not increase land-book fees, that it encourages citizens to have every change related to rights, burdens, services, which we have very much, entered in land-books, and that there are still waiting to be entered into land-books in some courts for more than a year, and European countries that want to invest land-book copies in their office, qualified and certified, from urbanistic plans to ownership lists. So our opinion is that it should be considered until the final proposal of the Law on Court Taxes is whether today's good move is to enormously increase the fees for registrations or changes to the state of the land books. I hope that the Government will consider this in good faith and in good faith and give valid reasons for the submission of the final proposal of the Law on Court Taxes. And in the end, once again, we agree with all the measures that I have made at first to speed up, to destimulate conduct, but not for land books. We'll support the law in our first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73044	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73045	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, there is a need to change the Law on Court Taxes in addition to other laws, however, in every law, and especially in those laws that penetrate citizens' pockets should go with considerable caution and with a good sense of measure. We cannot at this point ignore the crisis which, the economic crisis in, the economic crisis, the crisis in the finances of our households of families and individuals, and simply regulate certain relations and prescribe an increase in the amount of court fees. Of course, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners do not doubt that there is a need to regulate this, but we are frustrated with one behaviour in Croatian society, which is by starting the exercise over everything and everything. It is almost daily that citizens who have been activated by a utility company and have never signed a contract anywhere, only on the basis of a settlement of a municipality or a city with which a certain municipal service costs so much, which may never have been done, so there is no evidence that someone has done the service, simply there are no people from the village, where the city is less often driven from garbage, hair access roads, etc., simply such services are rare and none, but in the absence of money the units of local self-government activates these payments, i.e. activates the solutions to the performances. We also have a case where people pay a certain payment for a certain service to the state institution, and nevertheless because of the non-verification, there is an emergency. Now you see the nonsensical at the end, the burden of proof and the burden of compensation damage, all of it acting so it's not my job, I don't know anything about it, mostly a man twice pays and it has to be, you know what it does to torment him to get his money back and there are no defined legal ways to solve it. So we're having this relationship, and here we're bringing in new errands over something that I don't think should happen, and I think it's very hard to say that the execution is going on because of the unpaid fee. I mean, I know that every time I asked for anything in court or in land books, I've always paid or paid a fee before, so I got a favor. I don't understand how the exercise should be initiated because of the non-payment of the court fee, when most of these fees are paid in advance. So we're putting in another one, and because of this whole top-of-the-line clamper, we won't even support this law in our first reading, even though we don't doubt the need to settle this. What's good is that this law is in two readings, that something can be corrected, fixed. I haven't found it, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, a release from court fees for socially endangered citizens. Is there a minimum, so is that the poverty line under which citizens do not pay court fees? If that is not there, then I ask that it be prepared and in any case enters another reading, because no system in the country can be blind and deaf and insensitive to socially sensitive groups, so to those who have insufficient means of life. I agree with my colleague, Lek, in part, that regarding the extracts from the land books, it should motivate citizens to mobilize their now immobilized assets as soon as possible because if someone owns it in 12ths, in 100 parts of the total ownership, then it must be immobilised property because it takes time and time to clear up and enroll ownership relations. And I think the goal of this country is to take care of land books and in some way to mobilise, activate that capital, that property of citizens because the total property of citizens is the property of the state and we do it all for the common good. I am especially saying this because the wish of our pensioners in the final stage of life, in the third life, most of them, is not to leave their problems to their heirs but to solve their problems for their lives. To clear the land books, to make a will. So, to settle these ownership relations. If we make their lives worse, if we introduce new taxes to them, then it will certainly be harder because I remind their average pension is a million and almost 200 thousand pensioners in Croatia are 2 100, below 2 150 kuna, and there is no room for wishes, there is room only for covering basic needs. The HNS-HSU also opposes this proposal, which Mr Tomljanovic presented, to introduce fees for taking certain activities before the Administrative Court for one reason – the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are getting up before the Administrative Court for reasons which are unsatisfactory with the solution, slowness, bureaucratisation of the system, etc. So they object to system failures and I don't think that part should be burdened with court fees. I think it should be one good, one good control function of the efficiency of all systems in the Republic. So, once again, most of the process before the Administrative Court is against bureaucratic behaviour of the system institutions, and I repeat, there should be no payment of court fees. So, of course, in good faith, we understand the need to pass this law. Of course, this law can be corrected in accordance with this debate and suggestions. Of course, we would like you to consider this procedure of conduct because it is quite burdensome, in some way endangering the existence of citizens. We get regular reports from very poor people, people with very small incomes that 150 kunas do because of a certain municipal service means a lot, so I'd like to ask you to take care of it. So far, we've said that we're going to act in principle that the HNS-HSU club won't support this in the first reading, and hopefully we'll have a chance to talk and fix all this until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73046	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73047	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a respected colleague incorrectly said that I was giving my opinions to the speaker, I read the report of the Committee on Law, where in a professional discussion and external members, university professors pointed to the problem of regulating court fees and in the context of managing administrative disputes. Because we're going to have a problem with that law if it doesn't work out, and now it's time, since this law is in the first reading, that this problem is primarily apostrophe and then we don't get into some kind of legal vacuum to cover it with the law itself. So offices and court fees, court fees under the management of administrative disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73048	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73049	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. In view of the fact that since the adoption of the Law on Court Taxes in 1995, i.e. since the last amendments and the additions of 2002, there has been a change in procedural rules, and in particular the Law on Procedural Procedures, as well as the Law on Land Books, which was introduced by new procedural institutes, it was necessary to approach the amendment and addition of the Law on Court Taxes. Moreover, in order to speed up the payment procedure of the unpaid court fee implemented so far by the Office of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, since 1 January 2011, the Act on the implementation of the law on the implementation of the fines under which the implementation of the law on money is implemented by the Financial Agency should be amended and amended and the existing provisions governing this matter. Thus, these amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes in the procedure of payment of an unpaid court fee are prescribed that the court no longer provides the order to the parties but a solution to the payment of a court fee containing the order for the party to pay the amount of the fee within the prescribed time limit on the revenue of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the order to the Financial Agency for the implementation of the commission over the financial assets of the party from all its accounts and the fines provided for in the provisions of the laws governing the implementation of the fines in the event that the party does not pay the due fee. The party may object within 3 days of the date of delivery of the solution to a first-degree court which may terminate or modify the contested solution, or refuse to object. An appeal decided by the second-degree court is allowed against the first-degree solution. In the event that, within a year, the Financial Agency does not carry out the implementation of the law governing the implementation of the implementing act, it will provide a solution for payment to the competent authority of the tax administration to the residence or headquarters of the party for the purpose of carrying out the enforcement on its entire assets according to the rules on forced tax collection. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the tariff of court fees introduce new judgment charges on the basis of the denunciation and to the judgment on deafness, in order to comply with the provisions of the law on litigation proceedings with the provisions of the Court Tax Act. New charges shall also be laid down for the application for the appointment of a permanent court expert and a permanent court interpreter who, on a decision to appoint them, and upon a request submitted for the storage of the general power of attorney as well as a decision to establish that the general power of attorney is stored. And since the submissions and decisions of this kind engage part of the civil servants in the affairs of the judicial administration. In order to detimulatively affect the submission of legal medicinal products and to further extend the duration of the proceedings and to act in a stimulating manner on the conclusion of a plea as a peaceful solution to the dispute in the first instance in which the interests of both parties in the proceedings are respected, it is proposed to increase the payment of charges by appeal and review against the judgment and to appeal against settlements in disputes due to disruption of property. Until, on the other hand, a court settlement adopted during the first-degree procedure is paid by a court fee which seeks to achieve a peaceful settlement of disputes between the parties and the conclusion of court settlements, in which way it will certainly contribute to the discharging of courts and the effectiveness of the judiciary. The remaining proposed changes in the tariff of court fees relate primarily to the increase in the amount of court fees due to the need for further modernisation of land books and the completion of the land library reform project and to increase the effectiveness of the land library procedure and the land library administration and to achieve legal certainty for real estate citizens through the establishment of a land library database and land books in electronic form. Smaller amendments are proposed due to the time-consistency of the provisions of the Law on Court Taxes with the provisions of the Law on Land Books. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73050	Thank you. The chairman of the Board of Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Petar Selem convened a meeting of the Committee today at 13:30 in the Hall of Josip Jelačić, former Centre. So it's 13:30. We're moving on to club representatives. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73051	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Let me first quote "part" of this Law on court fees or arguments, in the end I will talk about performances. But let me just say that, for example, paying an appeal fee and reviewing the verdict and appeal against the settlement of disputes over the disturbance of possessions, that means increasing the amount of the fee for the action brought and against the suit is going up by as much as 100%. These changes here say, and this increases the fee compared to the amount of 25% according to the existing legislative solution. Destimulatively, it should affect the application of legal medicines and further deepen the duration of the proceedings in an indirect manner and act in an incentive to enter into a court settlement, etc. So you don't quote all those tariffs now, so I don't quote all those arguments, just to say that the gross court fees are going up by 50, 100, and some I'd say over 130 or 140%. I simply cannot understand gentlemen, and it is particularly difficult at this time to accept that anyone is raising in this recession 2011 some service by 50, 100 or 150% and it is particularly relevant whether it is a fee, d but it is a court or administrative taxi. It does not matter if it is an increase of one such amount of electricity price, toll, utility fee, kindergarten prices, oil, gas, etc. There can't be a message about how we have here in this explanation, so let's raise our fees and people will be "less suing". I first read that message in some media, I couldn't believe it, but that's the same explanation I come across in this explanation of this bill. And it is literally said that when the party does not pay the fee within the prescribed time limit, or without delay, it is literally said that this will adversely affect the application of legal remedies and further deepen the duration of the proceedings, and in an indirect way act in order to make a court settlement as a peaceful solution to the dispute in the first instance in which the interests of both parties are respected in the proceedings. Okay, here is an emphasis on the peaceful settlement of disputes, on the settlement, but that we are thus simply detimulatively affecting the submission of certain claims or similarly simply not appropriate in the light of this legislative proposal. You already have a situation today that precisely because of the price of court fees some citizens simply cannot exercise one of their rights in one of our courts. The price becomes an element of whether someone will run slow or not. As far as I know, in my dispute with HRT, I've paid these costs, I've had 10 grand in costs, but only the court fees I paid 2000 kuna, the answer to the complaint, the answer to their complaint, and now I don't know what else awaits me for one spoken word for this Assembly payphone that almost every show on HRT can buy. What do I want to say? The price of fees becomes an element of inability to exercise one of its rights in front of some of the Croatian courts. For example, 2000 kuna is now an average pension, for example, in the Republic of Croatia. If you get slow, it'll cost you 10,000 kunas, if you don't give it to God, it'll cost you at least 150 or 200 thousand kuna. So in all of this, I kind of have an impression or I want to advocate the principle of having a measure. In all, especially when proposed in these recession times some new price, under quotes of any service, should be firmly on the ground. Someone will say what it is, if it goes I don't know some tariff up in 20, 30 or so kunas. Well, we really don't have 20 kunas, but some 20 kuna gentlemen right now are three loafs of bread. If we split that average pension of 2 thousand 200 and something kuna by 30 or 31 days then you see that people simply live on a month with 70 kuna, and then these people get 20, 30, 100 kuna or I don't know how serious the expenditure really becomes. If someone is building a house or if they buy an apartment, I'm talking about, of 100 thousand euros, then maybe it's not a problem if you take out that ZK extract and you pay them 30, 50 kuna more, but if you're pulling out a ZK excerpt to regulate the price of kindergarten, some social benefits under the law that we're going to discuss after this, some other rights, then 20, 30, 100 or 50 kuna, it can literally turn into 3, 5, 10 loafs of bread, and then someone can really look a lot. I want to say everything you need to have a measure. We cannot deal with court backlogs with prices, or we cannot deal with the burden of courts with prices. If the intention is to propose this law, then it is absolutely wrong, as with the price of the fee we also cannot free the state from its obligations to provide the means for the functioning of the Croatian judiciary. Well, it can't all be covered from court fees, it's more than anyone's clear, but once again I want to say these increases in fees by 50 or 100 percent or more, I think at this point it's at least brave. Interestingly, it should be fair when it comes to this law, and see when the last time prices for court fees were corrected. It was 2002. So from 2002 to today, it's been nine years, so these amounts haven't been corrected, but I also dare say no matter how much the prices of certain services have increased, that today it's possible to allocate some funds, perhaps even harder than it was in 2002. What needs to be done, in my court, is not only to retain these fees at the existing level but also to reduce the bar fees and the notation tariffs. True, because of the crisis, the notebooks were mainly driven by an activity that was extremely lucrative. There are no more company registrations in that existing volume, but it is still simply these services to average citizens simply or better said prices are not understandable. We used to have a signature certificate in our community congregations, which was paid for by some equivalent, let's say 5, 10 kuna, today I think it's 60 or 70 kuna in the notebook. All is well normal if a person can pay something, but in a growing number of citizens, it is becoming increasingly difficult, especially if we have in mind that 20% of citizens in the Republic of Croatia are socially at risk, and if we translate it into the number of inhabitants of this country then we can say that 850 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia live below the poverty threshold and then these people have these 20, 30, 100 or more kunas and a lot more. Therefore, a clear state should be made as efficient, cheaper, more accessible, more professional, fairer, more open. It is clear that this applies to all courts, etc., including executive and representative authority. What is also interesting is that, when the party does not pay the fee within the prescribed time limit or does not notify the court without delay, the court will, within a further 8 days of the decision, place the fee on the basis of a certificate of enforceability and deliver it to the Financial Agency for the purpose of carrying out the enforcement on the party's financial assets in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the implementation of the law on money. You esteemed gentlemen must know that at this time in the Republic of Croatia we have 150 thousand accounts of natural persons who are blocked by various tasks. Probably the biggest culprit that this is the case at this point and what is being charged and the funds that should be excluded is this new law which now gives this possibility to the FINA instead of the banks. The financial agency simply sits on the funds it sees in the account, but this FINA cannot know where certain payments are coming from, or whether they are exempt from the implementation, unlike the bank that has all the information, but it normally allows the mechanism to be placed on the FINA from those funds that should be excluded, probably because the banks are entitled to, after the fact that the FINA settles a cost on the basis of the implementation, additionally burdens the user of that account on tightened interest. What gentlemen are excluded from the exercise, these are receipts based on legal restraint and damages caused by health or reduction disturbances, loss of working ability and compensation for loss of restraint due to the death of the maintenance provider. Then there are compensations for physical damages according to disability insurance regulations, social welfare benefits, temporary unemployment benefits, it is child benefits, help students, students, scholarships, compensation for the work of convicts, receipts based on distinctions and recognitions. And it should be excluded from the occasion. However, clearly this is not the case in this country and a new social impact on the most vulnerable in the Republic of Croatia is being created. From the FINA when we ask them questions, then we find out that 35219 transaction special accounts of citizens were opened from January 1st to May 10th this year, while currently, as I said, more than 150000 accounts of natural persons were blocked. They shall also have the right to open a special account with a salary and a pension, as only one-third of the receipt may be applied from the new year. But if they want to dispose of the other two-thirds, they'll only be able to do it if they or only if the bank transfers them to another account. The problem of these performances today is one of the most life-threatening problems I would say to Croatian citizens, and I think so much that this matter should be regulated again in one correct way. Mr. Hrelja who used to speak is absolutely right that everyone, is wrong that every service is paid in advance. I see it every seven days in one of my examples when I appear before a court of law. For you, it's good and economic and mental to put it that way. But I think the court still has to warn first, set a time limit of 8 to 15 days to pay the fee, and then start the commission. But it is also not allowed to sit on what I have stated before, and the basis of the law excludes it. As HNS, here's the HSU you can see that there's no dispute, and the IDS doesn't support the correction of these tariffs. But we're also aware that the new institutes of the Law on Prosecution were simply created, created the need for some tariffs to be introduced further. So, new tariffs, yes, but no more tariffs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73052	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club. And the correction, I didn't see. Excuse me. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, correction of an incorrect quote. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Agent Cain wrongly said that this was all about a new law on cash performance. So it's not the law. The law set out exactly what money can be used to implement a performance on which money cannot be implemented. For example, child allowance, alimony, maintenance income, etc. And he incorrectly said that Finna didn't know where the payments came from. FINA knows and has information about it and needs to be excluded. If it was in the beginning of some of the cases that we read about happened, then the error in law enforcement I believe will be corrected and it's being handled right now. Therefore, those who receive arrive and are no longer carried out on them. But if there's a mistake, it's not the law, it's the implementation, and it needs to be controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73054	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73055	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes primarily relate to the acceleration of the procedure for the payment of an unpaid court fee. Under the current law, the procedure for the collection of unpaid court fees was conducted by the Office of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In the light of the fact that the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the fines is significantly accelerated by the procedure of the implementation of these amendments and the additions of the Law on Court Taxes, it is proposed that the procedure for the payment of the unpaid court fee is also amended in such a way that the Court makes a decision on the fee contained in the order of the party to pay the amount of the tax within the prescribed time limit at the expense of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the order of the Financial Agency for the implementation of the conduct of the party's cash on all its accounts and of the fines in the event that the party does not pay the due fee. These amendments and additions to the laws would significantly speed up the payment of unpaid court fees, and only in the event that the Financial Agency does not carry out an application within a year over the financial assets and the fines of the party will it provide a solution for payment of the court fee to the competent authority of the IRS in respect of the residence, i.e. the party’s headquarters, as well as the parties for the implementation of the exercise on its entire assets according to the rules on forced tax collection. In view of the amendments to the procedural rules, it was necessary to approach the amendment and the addition of the Law on Court Fees in such a way as to indicate in certain tariffs the submissions submitted by the party to the Court of Justice, i.e. to determine the court fees which are due to the parties on those submissions. In the tariff of court fees, it is necessary to regulate the payment of the court fee for both the deaf and the judgment on the grounds of the denials which were not covered by the amendments so far and the additions of the Law on Court Taxes, and they also fall within the circle of the so-called ‘Court Taxes’. the decision on the basis of party dispositions, together with the ruling on the grounds of the absence and the judgment on the basis of recognition. Since such judgments are not preceded by an overall litigation procedure, it is also prescribed to pay a fee in a small amount. The payment of the application fee and the review and the judgment, and the appeal against the settlement in disputes over the interference of the property, in the amount of the application for the action brought and the action against the action, was increased by 100%. These amendments, which increase the fee compared to the amount of 25% in relation to the existing legislative solution, seek to de-simulatedly affect the submission of legal medicinal products and the further extension of the duration of the proceedings, and in a direct way and incentivise the conclusion of a court settlement as a peaceful solution to the dispute in the first instance in which the interests of both parties are respected in the proceedings. A significant newspaper in this law is that no court fee is paid to a court settlement during the first-degree procedure. This provision seeks to encourage peaceful settlement of disputes between parties and the conclusion of court settlements in such a way as to contribute to the discharging of courts, as well as the effectiveness of the judiciary and in general. We certainly support and support all these measures related to action in terms of settlement of disputes by settlement at the Croatian Peasant Party club. However, according to the Law on Land Books, an increase in the fee for submissions required for enrolment in the land book, booklets and notes, or the entry of their obligation by 20 kunas from existing ones means 50 to 70 kuna, as if the payment of a fee for enrolment in a land book amounting to 50 kuna, this amendment complies with the termological provisions of the Law on Court Taxes with the provisions of the Law on Land Books. This law also proposes to increase the fee for appeal against a decision requiring entry into the land book or erasure from the land book. It is also proposed to increase fees for... from the land book issued at the request of the party for 30 kuna, meaning from the existing 20 to 50 kuna, as well as the introduction of a fee for stamps from the land-book database issued at the request of the party of 30 kuna, and the payment of the fee for historical expenditure from the digital land-book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purposes of verifying the signature or copy of the documents contained in the collection of documents, a fee of 20 kuna shall be prescribed, regardless of the number of half-arcs of the originals. And a series of these are tariffs that we increase or introduce related to land books, we at the Croatian Peasant Party club, given the state in the land books, and our desire to update land books and offices, this increase in fees we don't think it will motivate citizens to update the land books, and of course leave clean property relations to heirs. Therefore, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club think that the proposer should consider this situation, and see how to motivate citizens to solve these existing problems, it is certain that the increase in these tariffs is not a motivating factor, and we believe that here until the second reading, the promoter sees how to keep these existing tariffs or coordinate them, ultimately and with the opportunities of citizens, and I say everything in order to update and edit land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73056	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73057	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. In the opening part of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Fees, the Proposer of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, inter alia, also brings an assessment of the situation, into the fundamental issues to be regulated by law and the consequences of the adoption of the law. The assessment of the situation found that the Law on Court Taxes, which was passed since 1995, has been amended twice in 1996 and 2002. In view of the fact that there has been a change in procedural regulations since 2003, primarily by the Law on the Procedural Procedure as well as by the Law on Land Books, the Government considers that the need for a further amendment and addition of the existing law has been imposed. As a reason for the adoption of amendments and additions, the proposer of this law sets out a desire to speed up the procedure for the collection of unpaid court fees. Since the entry into force of the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the implementing act on money from 1 January of this year, the conduct of the fines has begun to be implemented by the FINA, and as this law speeds up the procedure of enforcement, it is the intention of the proposer of this law to also charge unpaid court fees, instead of the branches of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, which have so far done, to carry out FINA from now on. With the new bill, the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only seeks to speed up the procedure for the collection of unpaid court fees, but also introduces changes in the tariff of court fees. Nor would it in itself be disputed if this really concerned only an attempt to indicate to the individual tariff numbers the submissions submitted by the parties to the court, i.e. to determine the court fees owed by the parties to those submissions, as explained and stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The dispute is that this bill significantly increases amounts to payment of a whole set of fees. An explanation for one increase in the fee can even be accepted. This refers to an increase in the payment of charges on appeal and audits against the verdict, and to a complaint against a solution to disputes over trespassing. In particular, the Commission notes that, in the light of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the European Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the This legislative solution, in our opinion, can indeed encourage a peaceful settlement of disputes between parties, and the conclusion of court settlements, which can ultimately relieve courts and increase the efficiency of the entire judiciary. If the proposal to increase the tariffs mentioned above is seen as an effort to directly and incentivise the conclusion of a court settlement as a peaceful solution to the dispute in the first instance, in which the interests of both parties are respected in the process, such a proposal may be accepted. But the problem arises when this bill proposes an increase in prices for a whole series of fees that have been paid so far, but also significantly less than is now proposed, as well as the introduction of new fees that have not been paid so far. I'll count it. This bill increases the following fees: for submissions requiring entry into the land book of the book or the receipts or registration of their removals, the increase is 40%, for a complaint against a decision requiring entry into the land book or erasure from the land book is 20%, for land book extracts issued at the request of the party, the increase is 150%. In addition to these increases, payment of new fees, which have not yet been introduced. Thus: the payment of the land-book registration fee by electronic data processing amounting to 50 kuna, the payment of the land-booked data-based tax issued at the request of the party 30 kuna, the payment of the tax for historical copies of the digital land-based book and for the historical records of 30 kuna, the payment of the registration fee or a copy of the documents contained in the collection of documents, the payment of the fee for the certification of the copy of the hand-held land-book of 50 kuna. Payment of the fee for the verification of the copy of the hand-run land book of 30 kuna, payment of the fee for the appointment of a permanent court expert, i.e. an interpreter of 100 kuna. Payment of the fee for the decision to appoint a permanent court expert of 200 kuna, payment of the fee for the storage of the general power of 100 kuna. And here's another example, paying the fee to determine that the general power of attorney is being stored another 200 kuna. It is particularly controversial that the legislator of the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not trying to explain these price increases and the introduction of new charges. Such a relationship with the citizens who have chosen this authority and whose well-being they should work for is not acceptable. And we're not so worried about fees that, for example, for their appointment, the future permanent expert or permanent court interpreter should be paid. They will charge it very quickly and fat again on the burden of Croatian citizens. But in the situation in which Croatian citizens live today, in poverty and misery, without work and without pay even when they work, and all thanks to the disastrous politics of the HDZ government in such a situation, introducing new taxes that are nothing more than a new harrass and a new impose is ultimately impertinent and hypocritical. The government of the Republic of Croatia also treats Croatian citizens as feeders against farmers in this case. I'll cut you up and cut you up. Well, basically, you better figure it out, buddy. Franjo Tahi ruthlessly trampled his subjects, the Partisans emptyed out the barns, and the HDZ government first robbed its own people, the state cashier and state-owned companies, and then introduced a hack and imposed on them to fill these same robbed citizens with an empty state register. For the above reasons, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives will not accept this first reading of the bill. But, Mr. President, allow me to say one more thing, and this is now addressed to the motionary, in this case to the representatives of the ministry. I must especially highlight something that applies to this law, but also to almost all the laws that the Croatian Parliament has passed over the past few months. Something about that started talking yesterday from a colleague of Dr. Boro Grubisic, however, cannot get over the problem just like that. Namely, it is a problem that appears continuously in every draft law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to representatives of the Croatian Parliament in recent months, which refers to calling for individual articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on which all legislative proposals are based. Any legislative proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the last few months as the basis for a proposal for each law is referred to in Article 84. The Constitution, instead of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cleared the text. Thus, in today’s proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the basis for this proposal is found in Article 84, referring to the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia. 76/2010. and the National Journal 85/2010. It's a refined text. It's this text that we all have representatives. So, this consolidated text that was published in the National No. 85/2010. They all have parliamentary representatives. It can be bought in all the bookstores, it costs $69, I know because I lost one, so then I went to buy another. But the problem is that Article 84. The Republic of Croatia's Constitution in the consolidated text called on by the Government of the Republic of Croatia reads: "The meetings of the Croatian Parliament are public." And this article cannot be the basis for proposing any law but for Article 85, which reads: "Rightly propose laws has every representative, club representatives and working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia". It is not only a problem in this article but also in almost all other articles called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia when proposing almost all the legal proposals that came here after the June amendments to the Constitution since last year. For example, here is an example of yesterday's freshest, yesterday's proposal for a referendum law as the constitutional basis of those articles 45, 84, 132 and 141. Of all articles, the only correct article is Article 45, which speaks of the voter's right to a referendum. All other articles are incorrectly cited as the basis for the law because they do not refer to a referendum but to something completely different. So I have already said article 84 about the public work of the session of the Croatian Parliament, Article 132 when we discussed the referendum is actually talking about the procedure and the conditions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, but the next Article 133 speaks of a referendum. Article 141 to which it is called as a constitutional basis for the adoption of that law, e.g. discusses international contracts which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, if they are brought to the Croatian Parliament. And Article 142, which should be called upon, is also the one that speaks about association and disunity. This would be, this was just another example with this today, but this is the case with all the proposals of the Government coming to the Croatian Parliament since the amendments to the Constitution adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 16 June 2010. I am personally sorry that Mr. Vice President Vladimir Seks is not here right now, but I am going to say this because it is an important message to correct this. The culprit for this legal mess is known. It is the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, which is signed in the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as a editor of this consolidated text. Here it says, by Vladimir Shakespeare. On 16 June 2010, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision to declare the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was published in the mentioned National No. 76/2010. The decision found in Article 9 that I should be quoted as saying, "Article 53a, which speaks of the State Audit Office, is added beyond Article 53a." However, in the consolidated text of the Constitution, which was organised by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Republic of Croatia, which is signed by Mr Sheks as a editor and which is published in the National Journal and printed and sold in bookstores in that form in the National Journal 85/2010. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. All the articles behind the 53rd have been increased by one number compared to the number they should have, according to the Croatian Parliament's decision of 16 June 2010. No one, nor Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, has the right to change or disrespect Croatian Parliament decisions, and especially when it comes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Seks, in the opening part of this consolidated text, stated that this was the fourth intervention in the first, that Christmas Constitution since December 22, 1990. And with this, Mr. Shakespeare made a voluntary intervention in that same constitution. This certainly needs to be corrected because it leads to confusion and even raises the legality of the adoption of the Law in the Croatian Parliament and this is the most legislative body and cannot be allowed to make the laws and regulations that are adopted here legally questionable when many already are. Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly of the Seks is, I said in the opening part of the extended text on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament does not address the first person of the plural with us, but in the first face of the one I am. This has already been seen in the Ban's Courts by the Adriatic, and now we're supposed to get Ja Shakespeare here. It is true that the Romans had Tiberius Claudius emperor and deity, known as me, Claudius. We know that Mr. Shakespeare sees himself as the maester for legal proceedings but is not allowed to be the maester for legal executions. And I must remind you, I'm glad you came, that you Mr. Shakespeare are not even Armand Jean du Plesis more famous as Cardinal Richelieu but I must remind you of Croatia it's too Jadranka, she doesn't need me yet, because it's too much for the nerves of patient Croatian citizens. Therefore, I ask that the error be corrected because the legality of the work of the Croatian Parliament, the seriousness of the work in the Croatian Parliament, and even this booklet with the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which the citizens buy for 69 kuna, is not what the Croatian Parliament has brought but what Mr Vladimir Seks wrote. This raises the question of what citizens buy this book for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73058	We have two counts of breach of the Rules of Procedure on this exhibit. First vice president, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73059	A little unusual, 209. The Rules of Procedure on this part of the exhibition where very respected MP Buric apostropheed me in some parables which I can only answer with one other illustration of this one attributed to Caligula that he named a horse as his senator.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73060	The breach of the Rules of Procedure has been reported by Mrs. Djurdice Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73061	Thank you, Mr. President. This has really become inadmissible, Article 214 of my colleague Buric was injured, if he can call himself a colleague, he has been using 5 minutes of glory to say stupid things, insulting all of us, insulting the Croatian state, insulting the government. I think he deserved the least said warning because we didn't deserve to hear this kind of speech, impatience, hatred, and I don't know in any way how a man could characterize it without being worse than he did.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73062	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73063	Thank you. Article 209 was injured, you didn't give me a word when I hurt Mr. Shakespeare, but I don't blame you for that. So whatever we're saying here remains a fact and look at all the legal proposals that arrive in the Croatian Parliament after the publication of the National Journals No. 85/10. All the legislative proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a constitutional basis for the adoption of all the laws that we have then passed list the wrong articles. It's the one who signed here. Having nothing personal against anyone, Mr. Shakespeare, you wrote it, I prepared it. And you did not respect the decision of the Croatian Parliament since 16 June to follow Article 53a. You willingly put in article 54 and changed it, that's your 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament made the fourth intervention in the Christmas Constitution and after a few days you made the 5th intervention, it is not allowed to anyone, nor to the emperor, the emperor, later declared deity. But also you won't reach his glory, Mr. Shakespeare, I ask that this be corrected not for Mr. Shakespeare's sake, I demand that he be corrected for all the laws and regulations we make. They will laugh at us all, they will go to the European Union, they will laugh at us on the basis of which we are laying down regulations. We are talking about a referendum on the basis of an article on the choice of constitutional judges. That really doesn't make sense, if it's from Mr. Shex, it's too much. Mrs. twilight and you hurt the Rules of Procedure, I really have no intention of replicating you, because everything you say is not for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73064	Mr. Representative, what you said was that the order of articles and the invitation to articles, and the second is the mention of individuals and the insult of individuals. Don't do that. Besides, you're out of time. Although I don't think these problems are being solved by some kind of reminders, etc., but if it continues to work like this in the Croatian Parliament we won't actually finish our work plan because each will be able to extend their discussion as much as it wants. Don't do that, I tried to interrupt you two three times, but I don't know what to do. Now there have been two more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First is Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73065	Thank you, Mr. President. It is indeed already inappropriate to use the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure repeated, but it is repeated each time that it makes the same mistakes. I really beg you, you said that, article 209 was injured and was the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73066	Also Mrs. Representative Gjurjica Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73067	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, if Articles 209 and 214 allow us in this House to win the terrorism of a group of MPs or one, then indeed we are most of us, all of this majority in the minority, I ask you nicely to warn or talk to a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73068	Thank you very much. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure now, Mr. Buric?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73069	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Mrs. twilight, colleague twilight, I'm still gonna call her a colleague because neither am I here by her will, nor is she mine, if it were me she wouldn't be there, as if she were wondering I wouldn't be there. No one is allowed to prohibit representatives of the Croatian Parliament from expressing their opinion. Therefore, if any of the ruling ones still expects that MPs, not just us from the HDSSB club, but completely from the opposition, will come to the Croatian Parliament and just say we agree with the proposals that come here, then there is really no need for us to come here at all. We have the right and the obligation to make, we have made observations, we have made comments, we have made something that is important not only for this law but for all legislative proposals that arrive in the Croatian Parliament and what needs to be corrected...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73070	What did Mrs. twilight's Rules of Procedure hurt her?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73071	And nobody did, I didn't hurt just name the culprit, that's Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare who signed up for it and that's it. Did I make him sign it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73072	We are not here to determine the guilty because the guilty are determined by the appropriate judicial authorities. We are here for discussion, but rightly you say that MPs should speak, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not on their own terms, not as much as they want and not as they want, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure are precise. And therefore, I ask you, although I do not believe in these reminders because it seems that the warnings come more as an honorable act than some reproof, and then people are proud of the warnings, I think that they should be correct to the Rules of Procedure if not to colleagues or government or parliamentary officials, vice presidents, etc. So you don't have to respect your colleagues, but we all have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Please don't call me back, you've called three times for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's all more or less an incorrect reporting to an institute that's not founded at all because you've been out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73073	I agree with you, Mr. President, I agree, but the Constitution needs to be respected, not just the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73074	Why do we create an atmosphere so the people can understand whatever is in this House? Please, let us endure these several months in a correct relationship, let us not create such an atmosphere that only extends the work of the Parliament and solves nothing. It doesn't solve anything, everyone stays at their stand. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73075	I thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Buric, HDZ did not rob Croatia but contributed to Croatia's international recognition and defence. The HDZ did not rob Croatia but contributed to Croatia's international affirmation and Euro-Atlantic integration. All those who robbed Croatia are criminals, even though they had HDZ's card in their pocket or HDSSB or IDS or SDP, and they should be treated the same way, just as the Croatian Government is now trying to lead the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, who is not robbing Croatia, but is trying to deal with those who robbed her, so with criminals. So let us stay away from this, stay away from the debate that each time ends exclusively by dealing with HDZ and people, leading people responsible for the creation of Croatia, among other things, for their own personal reasons. That is truly unacceptable and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73076	Mr. Dinko Buric, did you ask for something?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73077	I did, I did, I picked up, yeah. ... Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209., Mr. Honorable colleague spoke about things I did not talk about, about the foundations of the creation of the Croatian state etc. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] But I'll just tell you, Mr. Bagaric, I absolutely agree with you, I absolutely agree with you that HDZ was creating a state, that it hit the foundations, that I agree with that. I won't comment on what you said HDZ didn't rob the state. I especially need to stress this... Not all of them are HDZ members, not related to them or generalised. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's a large majority of HDZ honest people, but there's no such ones at the top of the party, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73078	I take away your word for it because you have incorrectly raised the plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure since Mr. Ivan Bagarić said on one of your claims that it is not correct and he has corrected it correctly, and you are incorrectly again because of this now and the fourth with great regret, it will probably serve you in political affirmation but I am telling you anyway. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs. Ana Lovrin is in an individual debate, and in the meantime, at 10.44, it's past 10 minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a return to this debate really on the subject of the agenda point, which is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. I will support this proposal in the first reading, of course, because it brings some quality changes, but I must say that this is one of those laws which, by its regulations, can contribute to that fine-tuning balance as well as to the Law on litigation, between ensuring citizens access to the court and between citizens not to abuse their rights and that there is no unnecessary burden on courts. Therefore, these amendments and additions are first and foremost governed by the issue of enforcement in unpaid court fees, in accordance with the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation and, of course, it would be illogical to charge taxes in one way as cash claims, and in the other, all other monetary claims on cash. We heard in some MPs' debate that they are again being brought into an unequal position of citizens in relation to the state because they are being forced to charge taxes without being notified or told before. This is simply not true because here is the intended article of these amendments, so Article 1 is exactly how the court determines the fee, how the party informs if the action is present or if it is not present in the judicial action leaves it with a period of 3 or 8 days and the period of 8 days, and only after that goes into forced payment, so all in accordance with the law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on money. What I would do here is a little problem with the fact that it is the first reading, so that is the provision of paragraph 7 of this Article 1 of the amendment and the amendment amending Article 39 of the basic law which reads: "When an unpaid fee in certain cases is less than 100 kuna, the provisions of this article will not apply". So, first of all, and it's written correctly, I think it needs to be questioned because it means that all charges are, for example, land-booked or in some procedures where these fees are below 100 kuna, and such procedures are very, very large and by law large numbers then they are you and amounts great would be reading this provision of citizens can say so what I would pay for that fee when no one will ever force me to charge it. In any event, it would have to be stated that when an unpaid fee in certain cases is less than 100 kuna, the provisions of this article will not apply but only on the forced charge, as it would have turned out that no other provisions of the warning article would apply, etc. It won't apply. But I certainly put it on my mind. As long as there is no law, and here we have talked about why they are even introduced into this law and why the provisions on forced collection are when everything in court needs to be paid in advance. That's not true. So sometimes there was a provision in the law, for example in filing a complaint that a hearing would not be scheduled until the fee was paid, etc. I think there have been objections to human rights, protection of human rights, access to court, unconstitution or something. Therefore, that provision from the law has been cast out, no more. Therefore, the court has no way of saying that it will not take any action until the fee is paid. I'm not satisfied with the offeror's answer, let's say in the land no one will do anything to you until you pay the fee. It may be usually the right thing to do, but it doesn't say it in the law. It may appear in some sublaws regarding land-booking procedures. But if this non-payment provision is forced into law, then that provision must also be made that, that it will not be acted before the fee is paid, it will stand in the law. If she's not here, I suggest you delete this provision from the law as well. In any event, this law also provides for a provision under which a tax will not be paid on all agreed settlements if they have been reached by the end of the first-degree procedure. On the other hand, there is an increase in the application fee for a solution to disrupting the property, to appeal of the verdict and to an audit that has so far been increased by 25% compared to the basic tariff for the lawsuit, and now this increases to a 100% amount. And that is, the intensity to stimulate settlement, peaceful dispute resolution, and not to go into appeal proceedings unless there are really arguments for them. I would warn here about this already and we were saying that by the second reading it is certainly considered in some way issues of due diligence and for categories of citizens who are exempt from paying fees. In fact, certain categories of citizens have been released for certain procedures in which their existential rights have been compromised or otherwise. But certain categories are exempt from paying fees for all kinds of procedures, so it should also be considered because that circle is quite wide. And certainly the provisions of this law should be questioned in relation to the Law on a litigation procedure that we discussed yesterday on its compliance with the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Because actually these three laws regulate the same matter of tax exemption and free access to court for citizens, so it wouldn't be good if they were in college. So, I suggest you ask that one more time because there seems to be collapsies in some provisions. Also, since the first reading can be considered until the final proposal of the law, the issue of increasing the charges in land-book items can be considered. Namely, the explanation is very simple. The land-booking process costs money. All this technology that has been introduced and improved requires large funds for maintenance of IT equipment, etc. Therefore, that is the reason for the increase. That someone today will be discouraged by the book because that submission costs 70 kn I absolutely don't believe it. Let us remember in the former as the inherited regulations of the former Yugoslavia in the early 1990s it cost 300 kuna. And let's remember sometimes the real estate tax was 45%, and that's why people didn't carry out their contracts in the land because it was a condition that 45% of the taxes had to be paid on real estate before they entered it into the land book. This amount will certainly not discourage anyone. Other reasons are why no books are carried out precisely because of these unsettled land-marked states of 50 or 70 years back. And it's also good, because we see here that there's a difference between fees if an excerpt is sought before a court and if that excerpt is required from a public notary or a lawyer who's authorized to do so. In this way, of course, it contributes to the disposal of courts from those cases that other entities can do and is stimulated in a way that the tax in this case is lower. Similarly, the second reading should consider what we have warned the Justice Committee if no correction is allowed but an error is allowed, a correction of the court's obvious error through the appeal procedure to then consider and the possibility of the party having the right to return the fees which is now increasing here to 300 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73080	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73081	Dear colleague Lovrin, you said this law puts all citizens in the same position. I entered this replica not to oppose your position, but to be offered by a telephone call from a judge who warned me of the following. Payment of the fee in the executive procedure. According to the existing legislative solution, if the procedure is carried out by radio based on a court ruling, the fee should be paid. But if the enforcement procedure was initiated on the basis of a public note, no fee was paid. People are asking what is the difference now in the procedure of the exercise if it is initiated by the basis of a powerful judgment they must pay to the State tax, if they are based on a public record no, and they suggest judges, so the lady who called me that in either of the other executive proceedings, citizens are either equal or are paying, or are not paying charges for executive proceedings. If that finding of diversity is correct, until the second reading, then I ask that it be corrected in the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73082	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73083	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Lesar, that's exactly what this is about, if that finding is correct, then this is also an opportunity for the ministry to warn itself about it and see if there really has been some inequality in the procedure of enforcement against the citizens, or if it has its own special purpose, so that it is also manifested at the time of the proposal for the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73084	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73085	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will introduce that, in my opinion, there are three basic reasons why this law should absolutely be supported. The first of them therefore refers to the amendments and additions to the laws that we had the opportunity to bring to this House of Commons, the first of which is the amendment and addition of the Law on a litigation procedure, and in that sense the Law on Land Books, which introduces a whole series of new procedural and legal institutes, should therefore be adapted to the tariff system, or to the Law on Court Taxes. The second reason is quite certain that we have a new way of charging unpaid court fees, it is not to be excluded to mention that since 1 January 2011, in a procedural sense, it is a very different situation which this law speaks of and, of course, in terms of the jurisdiction of FINA, as an institution which is competent to implement these types of decisions. And the third thing I would like to stress, and indeed it is one of the grounds for the adoption of this law, so it is necessary to arrange payment of the court fees, in the first place to the verdicts that are... Involved in the Law on the Procedural Procedure, it is the verdict of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and rule on the grounds of denial, so with the absence of judgment and on the basis of the recognition of a specific type of judgment that is actually made in a specific possibility of disposition of party will, and in that sense, of course, this law would propose that court charges be prescribed for such species... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I would like to emphasise in my opinion a very important provision of this very law, I think that we may have mentioned it too little, and these are the first-degree settlements, which is what this new law brings, namely that the first-degree settlements will not be paid by the court fee, which will certainly result in one special way, so stimulating the settlement of the parties, that the parties' lawyers will be directed to conclude in a certain litigation procedure, which will directly and indirectly prevent or that is a tool to prevent further litigation, in fact, the conclusion of court proceedings, and I would dare say so in a shorter period of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for landowners, land books, land records, and whether this law will condition that people are actually destimulated to enter property rights in the land books for the sake of this law, my opinion and answer to this question is no, absolutely not, not only because of the nominal amount of taxis or fees provided for by this law, but because of the essence of the problem itself. What exactly is this about? Three basic or characteristic situations are in a procedural and legal sense when we talk about paying taxis in the land-marking process, it is paid either on a proposal to register property rights, or on a complaint, on a solution which the party is not satisfied with, and of course, when we want the ownership list, when we want a document that proves our right of ownership, then the tax is paid. Let's run an analysis of how much there is, under quotes, there's been a collection. It is from 50 to 70 kuna, certainly that difference expressed in kunas will not detimise someone to write a proposal for the registration of property rights or to request a land-marked excerpt when they need it for any reason. On the contrary, it was already mentioned by the esteemed colleague Lovrin, a large part of the unsettled land record in terms of the transfer of ownership rights that lasted in these premises for many years, who dimmed the right of ownership book in a manner of tax, that was a sales tax on real estate, which at that time was determined by autonomous decisions on units of local self-government, so they were 40.45%, so the one who wanted to prescribe the apartment, the house had to pay the tax liability 45% of the estimated value of the property itself. The tax rate is now significantly lower in that sense, the fees are as they are in the law itself, absolutely not a destimulation of someone who wants to enroll in the right of ownership that because they will pay between 50 and 70 kuna on the proposal for the book that they will not do so. Furthermore, we mentioned me insufficiently in this context of our debate today, Article 15, so we have this law defined a very broad circle of persons, and in this sense, specific litigation procedures where there are no court fees or taxis at all. So for certain characteristic litigation procedures, or for a circle of persons who are in a particular, we can define them as social or weak property powers, which means, as such in the sense of law enforcement, that payment of the court fee would be an additional burden on them, they are excluded by this law that they do not pay the court fee. This is the first reading of this law, in such situations we always have, we are on the trail of those discussions whether this or that norm in a certain sense needs to be fixed, whether there is a certain uncertainty that we have seen more precisely by law to standardise,... We have heard in these replicas between the esteemed colleagues, my opinion there on that threshold should be made a maximum effort, that these ambiguities in the sense of implementing the exercise of the witness, while it is clearly prescribed that the norm should therefore be clear and that any disagreement in terms of interpretation of certain legal provisions should be reduced to the least possible measure, and in that sense I support the law, there is no reason for any other reading and of this matter that we have discussed to be precisely solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, this law for all of these reasons absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73086	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Moving around this capital of ours to a lot of store windows, we see the sign we've given up. Unfortunately, when we talk about the application of this amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Taxes of State, the Government did not give in much more clearly and loudly on the increase in the tariffs of court fees by many elements. Here's just one example, so the requirement to store the general power of 100 kuna, and the decision to determine that the general power of attorney is stored 200 kuna. I'm surprised it's not prescribed and that entering court costs about 50 kuna, in a court building. Therefore, as part of the general impression of the common state, including the judiciary or the judiciary, it is clear that this legal proposal is also part of that global assessment or assessment. For 15 years, I've been going to the barber for a haircut, the price is 30 kuna, I speak in Slavonski Brod. That's a good price, yeah. Unfortunately, the application of this law will be a price that will make it impossible for many to see what they need and what they need. Mrs. Lovrin said 70 kuna for enrollment in the land books isn't much. Seventy kunas today is more than 10 kilos or 10 let me say a loaf of bread. I don't want to speak out here with a population exclusively, but believe me, Mrs. Lovrin, there are people today who have an increase of 20 kunas or 25% as they say in percentages. It can simply be said that this is simply a new imposition and then it turns out hypocritically that Chapter 3 states that no additional funding in the state budget is necessary for the implementation of this law. No, these make it clear how it still writes and completes or that is the additional revenue of the state budget. To give up suing because of what the borders or borders say, etc., and if there is so much abandonment as the proposing's intention to reduce the court's burden whether this reduction of the court's burden will actually lead to the fact that despite the increased price of court fees, the charge of the budget will be the same as before. Therefore, a smaller number of services, regardless of price increases, remains the amount to be filled with the state budget. So that's why this reminds me of these tariffs, these fees that are called here in the legal proposal like those bank credit processing 1%, 2%, 3%, soloisation and other so that when the bank starts already has profits. So here and here. Many of the charges imposed here will indeed be inaccessible to the appearance, or to the reporting and actions that citizens need to carry out in court. The very foundations Mr Buric spoke of, the constitutional basis for and the proposal of this law, I will not talk about, but as counterpart Buric told the HDSSB club and I personally cannot accept this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73088	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73089	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, you really did say and you said you wouldn't, but you really did say the populist, pathetically recalculating 70 kunas into black bread crumbs, etc., and I'm telling you that no one will really be discouraged by this land-book entry fee. For example, read Article 15 of the basic law, this article lists all categories that are exempt from payment of the tax, so social aid users, people with disabilities, workers in labour disputes, etc., etc. Therefore, anyone who is so weak in property will not have to pay this fee, and do you really think that all those who traffic every 3 years with real estate and acquire 10 or 12 real estate that they need to be reduced to the fee for enrolling these properties in land books. And yet another, a man of poor property, how many times do you think in life there is a need to enroll real estate in a land book? Well, probably once because you have that one real estate. If he has five, six or eight, then he's no longer poor. And one more thing, I will answer that, and perhaps, you have reiterated the remarks of my colleague Buric about the numbering, I really cannot be sure that there has been some printing error, but it is very likely that the applicant is calling for the numbering of the basic text, rather than the numbering of the consolidated text, because it is in line with the position of the Constitutional Court which has taken a no-technical position to use the numbering of basic laws and basic texts, rather than the consolidated texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73090	Final review, State Secretary Tatijana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73091	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the last thing I'd like to say is thank you to all the parliamentary representatives for the debate and for the constructive proposals. Since it is a first reading my associate and I have listened carefully to all your suggestions and recorded up to the second reading of those we consider to be able to classify to make the law better and better. Once again, I would just like to apostrophe what I said in the opening statement, which is to be referred to in Articles 14 and 15. The law on court fees of the current applicable law which are absolutely not touched, has not been amended and in fact they allow all socially endangered categories and a whole series of other categories of persons coming to be exempt from court fees, will not prevent access to court and will not compromise their social opportunities. Thank you very much again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73092	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73093	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. It was the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 800. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on court fees is adopted. Second, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? This proposal was adopted by a majority of 85 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 12 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73094	We are going to the next point - Final proposal of the social care law, second reading, P.Z. No. 746. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Health, Social Care, Work and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Antun Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to point out in a few short words, for 7 years a new Social Care Act has been being prepared, a year in public shows the thesis, or a proposal for a new Social Care Act, and over the past two months a public debate has been held and a presentation of the existing Proposal for a Law on Social Care has been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73096	Just a moment, Secretary of State. I read the first reading, and it was a mistake, it was a second reading. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73097	I thank and must say that the debate was held in the first reading, and after the debate was held, it was continued with a public debate so that you now have the final proposal of the Social Care Act, where only a few directions should be given in the opening statement. It is certain that the Law on Social Welfare is a Law which is one of the fundamental laws in society, and certainly as such has caused numerous discussions, controversy, and is also part of these discussions and polemics that have come up with any proposals, and as such the Ministry of Health and Social Care has publicly presented these proposals and has repeatedly indicated what was in the context of a vision of the development of the social care system as such and acceptable. And just let me briefly try to make certain changes to the Social Care Act in relation to the first reading where the debate was held. According to the comments and suggestions we had through the public debate, we received a short term in this proposal because some of the concepts defined in the article were returned to the articles to which it relates and one new definition was added, the definition of income. Furthermore, better precise users are further abandoned foreigners under subsidiary protection, unaccompanied children, persons who do not live together, have common children, and the term mental illness has been deleted because it is right to say today by all conventions signed by the Republic of Croatia by persons with mental illness are the same persons with disabilities as any other person with any other disease that is classified in the category of persons with disabilities and that it is simply that, regardless of what is a kind of positive discrimination, it is nevertheless discriminatory to specify persons with mental illness in relation to the general person with disabilities. Furthermore, in Article 50 of which there was a lot of debate during the preparation due to a lack of understanding that the proposal was intended to ensure that someone could be provided with a savings of up to 100 budgetary bases and that they could still receive State aid, the statement changed, in such a way as to define that it was exclusively a property, that someone who, apart from guaranteed real estate, meant 35 squares which, according to the proposal of this law, had earlier been 25 and 42 squares for a person with disabilities, there was no difference in the fact that there was a certain additional part to the 100 budget base did not put as an obstacle to obtaining aid. It is also accepted in this proposal that a decision on the right to housing aid is adopted at the level of the unit of local self-government, not as we have previously proposed to be at the level of the area, but because of the practice that a large number of solutions are not being adopted, we have introduced a safeguard provision which may be appropriate to the unit of local self-government if it does not bring a solution to the right to help. We also prescribed in this proposal even more favourable conditions for parenting status. When a child has no parents or no parent lives with a child and does not care or live with a child but is unable to provide the necessary measure because of his psychophysical condition, one family member can at his request acknowledge the status of a parent. But we also took into account what was proposed and these are single - parent families where if there are two or more children with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities that other than that parent’s status can be acquired by another family member, which in some way equalized the opportunities that we gave to parents who have two or more children with developmental difficulties. We introduced a new part, it's a family counseling service, we complemented professional preventive action in the local community, which is a provision provided by the family center. We have more clearly defined accommodation as an institutional care is accommodation in homes or other legal persons and extra-institutional care, which is accommodation in a foster family, foster home, organised housing or community of residential units. I am especially referring to this because during last assembly debate one of the examples such as SOS Children's Village, which by law, if we hadn't done an expression in this way, could not have been interpreted as a direct institutional concern, thus jeopardising the provision of assistance to children under the age of 7 that we predicted to be less institutionalised and increasingly directed into foster families. I will especially mention at this time all children who in the Republic of Croatia could be sent to foster families who have these conditions have enough existing capacities, i.e. there are enough families, foster parents who are willing to accept these children. Also, social care services in... public social services are not provided for obtaining profits, and we have specifically stated in the first reading of this Act, and we have also stated that if the home of social care is a religious community, an association, another legal person earns a profit, or we could say this extra income over expenditure, but make a profit in order not to use the article of the Law on Institutions, where Article 2 states that if a profit is created, it is exclusively the Law on Commercial Companies that applies. When that provision, as such, does not ensure that the social care service is non-profit, we said that okay, we cannot suspend the article of the law, but we can add that this profit should then be used to develop the activity or to transfer it to the next year for the functioning of that own institution. This was agreed with the Croatian Employers' Association in such a way as to ensure that all services provided in the social care system are provided no matter how they are provided, but that they are not provided for the acquisition of profits but are provided for the basic purpose for which they were intended. Social services are provided within the framework of the social service network under equal conditions in social care homes and legal and physical persons receiving concessions. I will repeat, concessions and in the first proposal, and today they intend for services not for institutions. Therefore, in the last debate it was repeatedly spoken, although it can be read in the article of the law, that the envisaged concession concessions are for services. From the novelty of this law is the introduction of the Ethics Committee of the Ministry of Monitoring, research into the system of social care which is clear that it is justified precisely because it is a very large number of surveys which, which are referred to institutions and homes of social care and other than the protection of personal data, other than the protection of medical data, we will provide the part, which is the protection of the rights of every citizen to his privacy, not to be covered by various attempts to develop and create statistical bases exposed to those who need our help, unnecessary risks of loss of personality. This should be made clear because that part of the research that we really need for scientific purposes, for the purpose of developing the system, can be carried out by the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty, can also be carried out by scientific institutions, but the ethical commission will be the one to determine the ethics of all these research. In a special section, it should be pointed out for two years on the right to compensation for paying employees the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for people with disabilities. With this law as we clear and make clear and transparent all provisions and all courses of providing services and providing cash compensation, so the right to compensation will no longer be requested from the Centre for Social Care but directly from the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. There have been more proposals that have been accepted, which may not change anything special, but I would now like to point out several proposals that have not been accepted and give clear reasons why they have not been accepted. It is not accepted that, instead of determining the property census, instead of rejecting claims on unsoldable properties, which are above the 100 budget basis census to be transferred to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia or entered into a publishing right. This provision is unacceptable to us for the reason that such property on the one hand would be a certain burden to Croatia clearly that there would be the possibility of manipulation, selling below the price, and on the other hand the purpose of monetary social assistance is not, I repeat, not to exclude users from society and create dependence on social assistance and him and his family but rather vice versa, to strengthen him by our own strength and to provide him and his family with the possibility of abstention. It's clear that... If such a provision were to be caught in order to put into a situation the irrevocable meaning of the klutzulus vitiosus, that the user who needs help to take away something that he would have in the property or conditioned that they would get help with the situation so that he could become a permanent user of our help that definitely should not be our rule. [[You don't understand.]] It is also not accepted that the accommodation facilities are up to 200 users for homes for old and powerless because, except that it is not in accordance with European standards or the deinstitutionalisation process to which the Republic of Croatia has committed itself is also not a provision that should at the moment mean a provision on 70 users to compromise any institution, meaning no home for the old and powerless because the transitional period foreseen for the existing homes is transforming a period of 10 years, and this provision on 70 users is a provision that has its own economic account, and is foreseen by this law to be for the establishment of new institutions. In one of the amendments that we received during the committee discussions, we clearly pointed out, there were speeches that these two objects should not have a distance less than a kilometer and 1,000 meters respectively, believing that it was only one norm that would prevent the possibility of manipulation of objects for 70 users. We gave up thank God of those 1,000 meters because we got, we'll accept the amendment, because we got to make it 70 users in the facility at one location. So the condition is that it's a stand-alone object that we get what was our purpose. Also, the objection which was practically more rhetorical, that no decentralisation was carried out, is not true because on the one hand I have to stress exactly on the debate at the City Association and in the debate at the County Association we have been warned that there is a major problem, the problem of decentralisation in the way it has been implemented so far and that this problem of decentralisation and the Equality Fund creates problems in the functioning of local and regional self-government units. That is why this model of decentralisation is in the two phases that we have proposed, this law defines exactly the first phase, and also the strategy adopted by the Croatian Government on 2 April and the second phase will ensure the conditions for decentralisation to be carried out in one rational way and so that units of regional and local self-government can also assume responsibility for the functioning of the social care system on their part without these negativitys that have occurred in this second part, so in these other sectors of decentralisation. There have been a lot of objections, and I think that during today's debate on the law, it will be possible to comment on these remarks, and we expect, in any case, that, with the adoption of amendments submitted to the Committee, you will be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73098	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73099	The imprecise quote by Mr. Secretary of State is that raising the percentage of the relative line of poverty would compromise the incentive to work and lead to the permanent application of these social rights. It is simply a shame to miss an opportunity to show that the Croatian state can care according to its economic capabilities. The proof is that the Slovenian economy is one quarter stronger than the Croatian economy, but it is three times more productive when it comes to social assistance, or help with our case. So we're missing that opportunity, we're not showing that we're solid with people who really need help or as much as we could given our economic situation, our economic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73100	The committees. The Labour Committee? The Committee on Health and Social Care, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed the second reading of the Social Care Act as a parent working body. Once the applicant presented the paper in this law and after the opening explanation, he explained how the proposed law simplifies the existing system of multiple social assistance in terms of clearer terms, as well as simpler and more effective exercise of rights in order to ensure the minimum standard of living for the most vulnerable part of the population, and to meet the personal and family needs of socially sensitive groups. The accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union puts particular emphasis on the European Union guidelines on social decision-making. By pooling the existing cash payments on seven programmes and introducing an inclusive add-on, administrations in procedures will be reduced. The comprehensive and necessary reform of the social care system includes the reform of the cash compensation system, the reform of the social services system and their financing as well as the reform of the public welfare system. One of the main objectives of reforming the social care system is to deinstitutionalise, i.e. to provide services outside institutional forms of social care, and to increase access to users. The network of public social services may give concessions to the provision of social services to legal and natural persons in compliance with the conditions laid down by law. On the basis of the concession, advice, assistance and care services can be provided in the home, professional assistance in the family, early interventions, assistance in including education and education programmes, as well as better regulation of the parent status of the receiving parent. Under the proposed law, one parent and another parent may have two or more children with developmental difficulties, or persons with disabilities, if the family has two or more children. Or another family member if there are two or more children in one parent’s family with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities. The proposed law establishes a national social council to identify and study social problems, and to give and propose expert opinions in the field of social planning and developmental orientation in social care activities, as well as advice on social care in counties which now play an important role in social planning, monitoring and development of the social services network and the exercise of rights, obligations, measures and social care objectives in their field. After the discussion, members of the board voted mostly, 7 for and 1 against the Croatian Assembly proposed the adoption of the Social Care Act. At the same time, the Committee proposed 15 amendments, which, as we heard, the Secretary of State was ready to accept. Those 15 amendments so I don't bother you with the long reading you have attached to your benches, so please read them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73102	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73103	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership held today at its 54th session on the final proposal for a social care law. Not to convince now what the motionary's representative said positively about this law, and we also heard it in a debate from the Secretary of State. I'll just mention what the board members pointed out in their debate. In the discussion, the committee members praised the efforts of the resolution ministry and indicated that this law would solve some of the major problems encountered by persons with disabilities until a special Act on Inclusive Supplement was passed. In the debate, the applicant accepted an amendment to Article 86 extending the circle of persons with the status of parents and other family members. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Social Care Act along with the next amendment. In Article 86, paragraph 6 adds a new paragraph 7 which would read: "Right to the status of parent-teacher instead of parents can also be achieved by a spouse or an extramarital parent with developmental difficulties, i.e. a person with disabilities referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article who is not his biological parent, who lives in a family community with a child." In the same article, Article 7 so far becomes paragraph 8, and paragraph 8 so far becomes paragraph 9. And behind, in paragraph 9, the words "supply" are added, "except for parents". This amendment is necessary in order to level the rights of family members who want to exercise the right to parent-care status. The applicant's representative has declared that it accepts this proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73104	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73105	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here in the opening part, Mr. Secretary said that this law has been written for 7 years, that a good, quality public debate has been conducted. If that were the case, then today this would not be just one small segment of the observations that have arrived. These are the remarks of the profession, social workers, the Faculty of Social Labour and many others who work in the welfare system and all warn that a good expert debate has not been conducted above all. And that this is a law that, unfortunately, will destroy this little social care that has so far worked. So, instead of 7 years of working on this law, I'm afraid that for 7 years, nothing has been done in the welfare system and that it has always been in some way an ugly duck in this mega ministry between health care and social care. The second profession also says that you took a British model from '67. For years, it would have been much better if you had sat down our people who work daily with troubled families, with families in a difficult social situation, so if you had asked them what to do with the welfare system, this law would have been much better and better quality and would have been more life-saving, this way he doesn't correspond to our needs at all. The social workers, unfortunately in the last 7, 8 years, have actually been turned into normal administrative workers. When more people from the ministry are controlled by administrative solutions, how solutions are written, and that's why these people don't really have time to deal with what's their basic job, which is working with family, working with users, so because of their 170 powers and jobs that have nothing left, almost no time to work with families, and that's why we have this condition that we have. And this law instead of going to discharge the social care system, one part of their jobs, the law actually gave additional jobs to the welfare system, and so in recent changes they got some more jobs, but also with this law now that definitely only burdens the system, instead of disbursing social care employees. Here, earlier in one correction, my colleague Vidovic said something about property censorship, about general help and what is a function of social care, which is to help those who are unable to earn themselves for their lives, but I will say here that unfortunately full 7 years has not been done nor in the social care system, but nothing has been done at all, regardless of what we have had JMBG, and the OIB, to network the system, to network all the information and to introduce order in the system, because justice in this system is extremely important and people are in pain when help is not given to those who need it, and even when help is given to those who are very skilled and who take advantage of this mess within the system. As far as decentralisation is concerned, there is no decentralisation here, you have changed terms and times for decentralisation from document to document, this is the third time you have moved a year, or time to implement decentralisation, and unfortunately in this moment a good part of the business will also depend on political will because it was not a real decentralisation, and that is how to lower the power to lower permanent finances, like this every year when a budget of political will decides who will receive some funds and who will not simply not be good, primarily for the citizens. I'm going to say even better here, and I'm going to focus on a few things that I think are very important. First of all, as far as foster care is concerned, we definitely didn't do anything in Croatia to get a sufficient and increased number of foster parents, for us over the last few years, the number of foster parents has been falling slowly. The last time I spoke here was about some counties where we have an extremely small number of foster parents, so I'm going to do it one more time, but this time with numbers, so there's no story of me telling anything that doesn't stand, so I'm going to say, like, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey that in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska only of 32 although it is difficult according to your data, because you do not have them, at least we are not available, correctly worked out, children and adults are located in a foster family of 32, in Sibenik-Kninska 43, e.g. These are the two counties in which the minimum It's parallel to that, for example. you have in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, in the home of Maestral 25 children until the 7th year, which will need to be placed in a foster family. You said there would be enough foster families, and I don't see where these foster families are by these numbers right now, and it's not good for those kids to be placed in a vervain dubrav if their basic family is in Dubrovnik. So here only the problem has been re-cosmetically solved in the law, with these SOS villages that you've put here in some way by the institutions, so it's not the right foster care that you're talking about here. Second of all, what about children who have certain health problems? You know that foster care is not categorized in a way that there is one number of foster parents who will be specialized, or rather educated enough, but also get enhanced funds for child care that have certain health problems, who will care for them? Right now in institutions, as much as we don't love them, these kids have both a nurse and a doctor, they have access to hospitals, rehab because of their homes in big places, so the question is, what's going to happen to these kids, who's going to deal with these kids the moment you decide to put them in foster homes? On the other hand, we have a situation with foster care because centres do not have time to look for foster families because they deal with this administration that I was talking about at the outset. When it comes to family centres, there's a lot of mess that's also occurred to you, the family centers belong to you so in the formation of the government, to the Ministry of the Family, you've now installed them here in the welfare system, then here you said some statutes legal acts will be passed and decided by the Ministry of the Family, but we'll decide some jobs for them. You guys make a deal. Are the family centers part of the welfare system, if they have changed the Law on the formation of ministries, and take it all into the welfare system. This kind of bipolar behavior towards the centres of the family will only create additional problems for these people, because they will no longer know who is giving them jobs, who is in charge of them, one ministry for one another, another ministry for another, so this is something that is not good and should be dealt with. On the other hand, the family centers at this point, and by this law, what I've seen here only work with people who willingly want it. So family centres have no obligation to a social care centre to relieve themselves and help users, for example, to leave a part of these users. to the treatments at the family center. They accept and only work with people who willingly want it. I’m not sure how many people have some problems that are not aware of these problems, but often they need to have awareness of it or people from education who work with their children or who do it at the social care center, that these people are aware of their problem, and that they will come looking for help at the family center. So it should be a family center, and that's what I'm saying to tie him up so within the social care system, and give them also one commitment, which is that I can act according to the social care center's instructions, to do a part of the job, and so maybe a little social care system would be released, and it would help a little more users. I'm going back to foster care now when it comes to adults, so people or the third age or people with certain mental difficulties. You said here that regardless of these concessions, there is one long deadline, you say 10 years of adjustment, but I think you should tell the people who took the loans, who pawned their entire assets to build homes in which they currently house about 200 people under existing legal regulations and on the existing network of foster homes. There are individuals who have taken full advantage of the current law, so they set up for example. in 3 homes about 600 protégés. Now, when you tell them that those 600 protégés have to deploy to several locations of 70 protégés, you have to explain to people how they're going to get new space, which is going to happen to these extra protégés. I mean, it's just something that you've been doing again without some consultation with people who are currently working in that segment and you're changing their business conditions and you're putting these people at great risk. On one side of the standard that 70 people in one family home may be much better and quality, but on the other hand, quality is ensured by equal conditions and equal standards for everything we don't have today. We just don't have it today. We don't have the same standards prescribed, nor the same conditions prescribed, nor the same supervision for all. Some surveillance comes five times in two years, some never come in, even when there are reports of their users' depravity because apparently people have a connection, and then they don't go into surveillance. On the other hand, foster care must be linked to institutions. This kind of foster care as it is now organized is often left to itself, and they must be tied to institutions because often times simply without this connection with other institutions cannot function. Unfortunately, in Croatia over the past seven years, nothing has been done to open up some hospice to accommodate a special category of people who are therefore in some terminal stage of the disease and who really need a specific type of care. Homes, currently family homes in most cases do not have the appropriate conditions for people who often stay with them, they are people in a deep coma. And often when people who come infected with MRSA from the hospital, those who are doctors in this hall know that MRSA is something that can be threatened if there is no kind of isolation, it can endanger other protégés, so the question is why nothing has been done to categorize certain parts of homes or complete homes in which people who have no place to be located but in such a kind of institution and who are currently in a coma or have some other difficulties. The problem is that they now settle at the same price as those who need much less resources and much less care. So there should also be seen how for certain cases therefore increase the amount of funds and ensure that those persons can be placed, but then much safer, much more quality than they are now. And then when it comes and some family homes don't want not to, but simply because of the responsibility not to endanger other users, they don't want to see someone who's infected with MRSA, then that's the problem, of course. But it must not be the problem of people who are dealing with foster care and who are those who are running family homes but must be the problem of a state that must provide certain conditions for those who work with such patients, as well as, of course, part of our citizens who are here must, in that way, welcome the end of life. In the end, I'll just say on behalf of the SDP club this law, it's one of the few laws that we didn't support in the first reading because we think it's bad, that it didn't help the social care system, that it hadn't introduced order, that it would be much harder to work now under this law than it was under the existing system. We will not support it in any other reading, because we simply believe that this law should start over and not so that consultants and law writers are the people of the UK but that it is our people who work in Croatia and who work with our citizens who know the problems of both their professions and the needs of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73106	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations from a representative of the lady who incorrectly claims that everyone is warning that no expert debate has been held. And another false allegation, that what little social care we have left will be destroyed. Well, ma'am, I'm surprised that you don't know that making this bill takes nearly five years and this opportunity is due here, and I'm going to thank the team at the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Health and Social Care who's been working on the preparation of this law, and in the last few months it's been working even 20 hours a day. It is also important to thank the whole set of institutions, and there are about 30 of them who have participated in the creation of this law in the closest possible way. Likewise, when the law was sent to a public debate, it was published on the Ministry's website with the intention of making certain remarks and, as we know, they were incorporated into the draft law in the first reading, just as all remarks were incorporated into the final text. And besides, I will tell you in response to another incorrect assumption that the law actually represents a significant improvement in all aspects of social care in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73108	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Opačić, has denied almost every part of these changes and changes, and I would refer to the 2 moments she mentioned – that social workers have been turned into administrative workers only and that they are not working with families at all. This is absolutely incorrect because social workers are very good quality, I personally testify to it, they work daily professionally, tirelessly with both families and on the ground. Furthermore, you also said that they would be additionally burdened. So the only principle of availability is that certain shifts and information will certainly be made in that part, etc. And this new amendment even says that the office is obliged to respond within 8 days to a single aid request. So these are all things, but you also talked about children and accommodation in a foster family and so on. I think everything is very clear and in these changes it is said that and in that part will occur in any case the simplification and quality way of solving and that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73110	The club of HNS representatives of HSU and Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73111	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Social Welfare in the second reading, and unfortunately I have to repeat part of the debate from the first reading, which is that the quality of the public debate is lagging behind, and in order not to cause it to raise the tiles I will say why. Because the debate on this is not even 10% of the public debate on health reform conducted by the same minister three years ago, when he visited all of Croatia. We believe that it was not, it was hasty, it was fast, but it was still a major shift at that time in relation to the public debate that was taking place on this law and this is an important law to only discuss and explain that it was all available on the Ministry's website, etc. Therefore, my personal position and attitude of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retireds that this public debate is insufficiently quality, i.e. that the quality of the public debate is lagging behind. Secondly, for the first time I have said and I repeat again, this is among other things social law, the economic social council that functions again has jurisdiction and this Law, we cannot get an opinion with the bill, the opinion of the Social Council, make an effort, a positive or negative opinion. Third, why are we always looking for those opinions of professions that glorify the proposal, which speak in favor, let us give one opinion of the profession where it has a reluctant opinion. Let's see us advocates of arguments for and arguments against. You're not going to tell me that the whole waist is behind this proposal, that's what you're trying to tell us. But it certainly didn't stop, there are different opinions among the professions, different proposals and different ideas. And what I'm saying is, I was taught by a colleague that the decisions made in a terrible time-out, their quality falls with the number of arguments that come to the table, and something that's been folding for seven years, seven years has been preparing this Law, and three times the variations have changed. It can't be said that this is the best option because there is no link between these proposals that have been in circulation for the past seven years. This is and should be given due attention because it is a law of special interest for Croatia and for citizens, this law must contain justice and social justice of the system. I'm still not convinced that he's containing it enough. It must be acknowledged that there have been qualitative changes in the proposal for the law in the first reading and that we have received some more information and, of course, some remarks have been respected. We also think in the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired that, like pre-school education and social care facilities, standards should be laid down and that this should probably not be dealt with by this law and standards related to accommodation and standards, so the number of users and standards of a specific area for a specific type of user as well as their quality of stay and quality of nutrition. I do not underline the sign of equality between private facilities of social care and social objects. The private always has an additional motive to do that, and that's motive for profit. The state can always discuss a non-profit position, so a settlement of costs for a particular service. Therefore, I think that Mr. Secretary of State should consider one process, to build this entire system through the introduction of standards for housing in social care facilities. I have to agree with my colleague Opačić that this system still has too much administration and little counselling and little care, and I don't see much movement there. However, regardless of what I think about this proposal in the second reading, we believe at the HNS Club HSU that this law will pass because there are most votes in the Croatian Parliament and therefore we believe that it is our duty to fix or at least to make proposals, to fix what we think should be corrected through amendments and I am sure that at this moment at least 10 amendments are being made that I think can contribute to the quality of this Law. In fact, I'm only going to make two more general remarks, and then I'm going to move on to the explanation of the amendment. We have one general observation about the choice of concessionaires, so in choosing the most favourable bidder, whether it's a legal person or a natural person, we have no criteria whether the best-standing concessionaire will have the advantage, so the best quotes on the market or will be preferred by those concessionaries who have the necessary expertise and professionalism in accessing users. Furthermore, in Article 103(2), we have, excuse me, in Article 103, we finally have a general observation where a conflict of interest in this statement is found which we now have, we are not going with the amendment, please look at it. In this regard, Article 103, paragraph 5, states: "The Institute shall recognise the service referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article on the basis of the previously obtained opinion of the service provider of the type, duration, frequency of service referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article". Therefore, the opinion of the service provider is the basis for the adoption or recognition of the service. It may be the basis for recognition of a particular service, may be determined by the opinion of a particular commission, but it is not the provider of the services that the court or the recommendation itself brings. Next thing you know, we're going in a row. In Article 2(2), we believe that a single person should be thrown out for a single person, so when we define the notion of a single person, it is proposed that no family should be thrown out because it excludes one another. Because if it is stated that it is not in a married, extramarital community, then if that instruction should be given then widows and widowers should be listed. Furthermore, after subparagraph 5 of the same article, we do not define a single household, and the single household is only when we have a person who lives alone and settles the cost of life. In order to prevent Stigmatisation, we propose that, in the sub-paragraph or point 12, children with developmental difficulties and adults with disabilities other than basic living needs are said to have increased. We propose to replace this there are additional needs precisely to prevent Stigmatisation. In point 19 of the individual plan, the individual plan is to change the life situation or behaviour of users identified by a comprehensive assessment of needs, difficulties and resources in agreement with the user, aimed at the selected objectives, we suggest adding: to overcome adverse living conditions. Furthermore, in Article 5(1), where it states that a unit of regional or regional self-government fulfils its rights, obligations, tasks and objectives in the activity of social care in a way that organises and implements measures and activities in accordance with the social plan in its field. Before this point 1 should be said that the local self-government unit, or regional self-government, organises the establishment of social care advice and the adoption of a social plan in its field. So that's point one, so then everything that comes next. Furthermore, in Article 6 I would like to say, i.e. legal and physical persons carrying out the social care activities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, pre-school, medical institutions, police, judicial and other state bodies and other legal and physical persons who, under special laws, care for families, children and other persons who cannot take care of themselves, are obliged to cooperate with each other. They would therefore add paragraph 3 that the information contained in the system referred to in paragraph 2 on the user of social care services which has problems in social adjustment is kept in the Social Care Office, without any information being kept by anyone or any other person. So, precisely because of the need to help users who have problems in social adaptation, we suggest that the system of exchange of information on individuals who have problems in social functioning be arranged. Furthermore, in Article 11(3), given that Article 6 also states about religious communities, I think it is also necessary to add them to Article 11(3). We said that religious communities are doing jobs in the field of social care, so I think it would be useful to install them in Article 11 and to be members of the social care council. Article 21 was particularly disputable to us because we have a principle called the principle of subsidiarity. Only the principle of subsidiarity does not correspond to what is said in this article 21, namely Article 21 speaks of personal responsibility and solidarity. So we propose that this principle be in the context of Article 21, so the name of the principle is changed and that it is called, that we have the principle of social responsibility and solidarity. Thus, the responsibility of the individual and family for their own social security is affirmed, and the essence of paragraph 2 of this article is incorporated. Furthermore, we have the principle of justice in Article 23. We propose to amend the name in the principle of social justice because this includes the concept of social justice to which the article applies. Therefore, in Article 23(1), we also suggest that a person exercising social welfare rights cannot achieve a better material position than a person who earns a living by means of work or on the basis of labour rights. Thus, such a conjecture includes the responsibility of the social care system to achieve this principle by regulating the criteria for the application of social rights. And one more thing to say on behalf of the club, in Article 26, in the name of "the principle of user involvement in the community", we propose to amend the principle of user involvement in the community. A small difference, but important because the principle of involving users in the community predominants that it is now excluded and that we need to include it, and if we say the principle of involvement, this implies the observed state of users and the future desired state of play that is achieved by this principle. So I'm going to move forward in an individual debate according to the amendments. What I am saying is that the final position of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and of the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party on this law and support and support will depend, however, on the proposing's will to appreciate our efforts to improve the quality of this law with our engagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73112	Thank you. Corrections. First Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73113	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, you have said that the decisions made with a time-out are lost in quality. I need to correct you that from a professional point of view that's not true. The quality of the decision depends primarily on what they are made and whether they are of operational or strategic character. Intuitative decisions are fastest, most risk-bearing and cheapest. Decisions based on experience are also fast, sometimes very safe and ask for little money. Decisions based on experimentation require time but are very insecure. And precisely the most qualitative decisions are made on the basis of analysis and research that require a great time reason, but therefore reduce the risk to the lowest possible level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73114	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrelj, you have made it clear that standardization is not foreseen in terms of quality. I mean the accommodation, the service procedure, etc. And food, and everything. So it's a big mistake that you said, or it's not true. That's not true. It is this law, Articles 156, 176 and 177 that regulates the question of the quality of social services standard, that forms a quality commission. Then, in Articles 176, 177 regulates the issue of accreditation of social care homes, etc. Within that space, there can be no partial standardisation. It's either there or it's gone. This is what it's supposed to do, and it'll be covered. It is prescribed by the minister, and in a conversation with Mr. Secretary of State, I have just learned some more newspapers that I intend to make in terms of monitoring and improving quality. Therefore, there is really no room for that claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73116	And Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73117	It is an incorrect assumption that the proposings did not consult the profession. On the contrary, the only or most important experts in Croatia professors from the Faculty of Law delivered 40 pages of remarks, but on every article of the bill. And they are not only not consulted but are completely ignored in their reasoned allegations and corrections. And secondly, in 2003, I personally handed over to Minister Hebrang and Minister Kosor at the time a final draft on the two-year-old reform, which most excellent experts not only prepared from Croatia, and the reform could begin at the same time. According to my information, Minister Hebrang threw it off the table like this and then you went to make a story for seven years. Here's the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73118	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hrelja said there would be more and too much administration. This is incorrect, because the principle of availability by choice of services says that compensation rights and other things are exercised in the shortened process of delivering social services through instructions as public documents which are also the basis for payment of services, and the Institute is obliged to respond within 8 days to the same. Furthermore, unifying rights will also reduce administrations without talking about information that is over in all centres. And let me not say about the favourable working conditions because we are witnessing in many areas that social care centres and the conditions for the work of these people who are doing really hard work have been created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73120	IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73121	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The first and basic rule, at least in my opinion, should be to be complete that social service, i.e. to be more precise social care as if it were left to local self-government, i.e. Fully. Not clearly, not how this law imagines you rights down at the local level, and us the money. So, we're going with the decentralisation of the state, and then the social welfare should be taken care of by local self-government, but for these purposes clearly needs to be provided with the means. The will of the legislator should be predicated. I have the impression that every new law transfers certain obligations to local self-government but that certain funds are held on to how to express myself to the national level. When I talk about budgets in Republ8ica, the Croatian state is incometing about 85% of fiscal capacity, the City of Zagreb about 5%, 20 Croatian counties all somewhere around 2% or to be more precise somewhere around 3 billion kuna, which is about the equivalent of how much social care is provided in the Republic of Croatia, while 560 of the municipalities, one word local self-government has about seven to eight percent of the fiscal capacity. So much if the counties in the Republic of Croatia have budgets somewhere from 100 to 300, 350 maybe millions of kunas, then I don't think we should make any further commitments, because we'll end up destroying everything. We therefore go with these necessary funds and this page 130 where it is literally said that the implementation of the spirit law will not require additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia because the existing funds will be more rationally compared. I think it's one hypocritical couple of excellencies. The truth is that existing obligations or better said is this rationalization that this formula is being transferred to local self-government. The whole community, according to my deep conviction, should be left to local self-government. Why? Because it is the closest to the problems of socially endangered citizens, but they also need adequate resources to do so. What is the essence of this law in my court are let's start with these provisions of Article 13 and Article 14 where the funds provided by the Republic of Croatia are spoken of. The Republic of Croatia provides in the state budget, I quote: "the funds for the achievement of the right to financial assistance in the welfare system, the exercise of the right to social services, the exercise of the right to services of intergenerational solidarity, the financing of the work of institutions and family centres whose founder is the Republic of Croatia", etc. The funds provided by regional and local self-government units are used to carry out social care activities. Units in the area are required in their budget to provide funds for heating costs. Local self-government units for the exercise of the right to help housing, etc. And now that I'm not quoting it all. Article 15 of the budget of the Regional Self-Government Unit provides for funding for material expenditure and for the financial expenditure of the Institute as follows. What my court may say, however, is the obligation of the owner of the residential property to de facto live on that property. It's this one social censorship that's more accurate than ever before, but far more rigorously, there's this Social Care Act. So if you have an apartment of 80, 90 square meters, which you did in '92. You bought for seven, eight thousand marks, and now you're no longer a social case regardless of all your incomes and stuff. The truth of that apartment may be worth it, I'm talking 80 or 100 thousand marks by heart, but in 2011, even if you wanted to, you couldn't sell that apartment. Finally, on the other hand, Croatia is not even Australia, so it is worth the principle that it is possible to live on property, because we have destroyed everything anyway. On the other hand, we just heard from the secretary of state, who said it wasn't intensity. But if what I'm talking about right now can really be an intensity. It's clearly better what I can do in this country for 3 thousand 500 or 4 thousand kuna, get an apartment of 80, 90 square meters in the center of Zagreb, than be a representative and get nothing. But by this law, I wouldn't want to give back that socialist principle if you wanted to, say, a child's allowance, so give it to the people, that's it. That country you inherited or owned in the '60s. Or 50 and some years. I know many in Istria who simply had to do so, as you know in your neighborhood from which you come, to feed your children. They were supposed to be deprived of their grandfathers to feed their own families. Now we have a similar legal proposal. Clearly, there is no big difference when we talk about the poor, lived in socialism, or capitalism. The poor woman is always poor, and as the people's proverb says, she is also heavy to God. To that extent allow me to quote these standards, Articles 50 and 51, the right to assistance for maintenance may be granted by a single or family provided that the value of the property owned by a single or a full-time family member does not exceed 100 budgetary bases for the calculation of the compensation and other incomes in the Republic of Croatia on the day of application. How much is that? That's exactly 326 thousand kuna, that's a 44 thousand euro circus. It is then said that within a year before the application was submitted, it did not sell, donate or give up the right to inherit the property, if it could achieve the funds, okay, not the owners of mobile assets that could be used or estranged without jeopardising the basic needs of life. It is then stated in Article 51 that the right to assistance for maintenance does not have a single member or family member if he has owned or co-owned an apartment, a house or other property that does not serve him or a member of a family to settle basic housing needs, whose sale or income could be made by means of maintenance. For example. He lives in Pula, in a place like that to say to a small apartment, and there's something worse in Cicaria, which he can't sell, what to just do. Which is finally these basic housing needs. I've already defined that amount. Is it possible that these are the ones that in some way define the Law on the areas of special state care, which we will later discuss, so the single person can have an apartment of up to 35 square meters, a two-member family of up to 45, three-members up to 55, four-member 65, five-member 75, etc. What if there's, like, 15 or 20 square meters more? What do you want him to do under quotes with that extra? What or because of this will not be obtained under quotes or will not be entered into the social care programme. What I certainly welcome is this Article 53, if a single or incompetent household member has a relative with whom he is not living, and according to the regulations of family relations, he is obliged to participate in his maintenance during the procedure for the exercise of the right to assistance in connection with the obligation of the competent court to initiate the procedure in order to determine the obligation to refrain clearly that this must be introduced. Only in Croatia when we speak for example. about the unemployed, you must bear in mind the fact that after Spain in Europe, Croatia has the highest number of unemployed among young people 37%, the Spanish have 40, Slovenia has 8%. This should mean people who should support their parents, and today we have a situation that 20% of the population is socially endangered in Croatia, or almost 850 thousand people are on the verge of poverty or poverty, and some, for example, are poor. have apartments of 100,000 euros, which are created in socialism and sold under allegations of democracy or capitalism. What are the economic parameters? I am afraid that Croatia will not avoid the IMF either, and that means that once again, the poor will be the one who will pick up the Boston to save the country from what I know about the collapse of the expropriator, etc. The elite has never socially stabilised state finances. Whenever the word is in Croatia, it has been done at the expense of the most numerous, and that is exactly poverty. The tycoons will always have more and more money, and the poor will pay for it until it comes or rises as I said yesterday by some new Tito and carry out the expropriation of the expropriator. It is clear that we cannot have the gross social product we have, or Croatia cannot have the GDP it has, the productivity it has, the Croatian relationship that works which it has, and the Swedish rights and the Swiss standard, but until '90. Let's say productivity was what it was again, the attitude to work was probably what it was today, and yet the socialist in ex Yugoslavia was almost like in Sweden. Of course, there were some differences. There were over 2 million people employed in Croatia, pensioners somewhere around 600,000, and today we have a million 450 thousand who pay contributions and a million 206,000 pensioners. The other thing I'm trying to say is, these are really tough opportunities, and we really need an honest law. Retired people support their unemployed children, grandchildren, and we will all probably agree that the best social policy is full-time employment policy. Why? Because working is not a social case. In Croatia, though, 80,000 people, or I don't know how much, a little less, don't pay them, so they're still social. The best policy towards a pensioner is full-time employment policy again. Not for them to work, but for their children to work, so they won't have to support them. The best policy towards youth is also a hard-line policy full of employment because if they work then they will not be burdened by the community or the family, and the best policy to stabilise opportunities in any country is once again full-time employment policy. Of course this is a very serious law, it's a law that can tang directly, indirectly to hundreds of thousands of people. It is a law that concerns the poorest and therefore needs to be maximum caution and maximum sensitivity. And it would certainly be best if this law went into third reading. Not to say now that all of these social rights are in this law, that's, this quote, I'm just going to say that it's a law that's "hard" under quotes, 2.9 billion kuna. It's clear to every country, so especially our big money, let's play some hard words now, let's not all come in, but when we're following some big affairs it's actually no money. But the fact is that it's as folk as much music as it is money, out of an empty bag, we have nothing to take, and for God's sake, nothing to give. There's a need, there's no money, and I'm afraid there'll be less. I'm reading these World Bank demands this morning in some of our press releases, conditioning a pay cut, shutting down some 200 companies, reducing social welfare, and this is social law. And I fear that Croatia will not avoid the IMF and that the poor will, unfortunately, be even harder and not so quickly better. Unlike those who have everything they have received through the Institutes of Conversion, privatisation is simply because at a given time they were acceptable to someone and to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73122	Thank you. Corrections, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, the representative incorrectly claims that the law says that a party that has an apartment, for example, 80 squares of useful surface area, is no longer a social case. This is incorrect, Mr. Caine, because the law just says and defines what it is to satisfy a living space where it says that an individual, or one member, or single person has the right to 35 square meters, specifically defines the same person with a 20 percent greater space than what protects each member in the family from an additional 10 square meters. Of course, this provision is also in line with the Rehabilitation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73124	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73125	Well, my colleague Cain said one inaccuracy because he was obviously not informed, and he's been repeating for a while that 80,000 people are working, and he's not getting paid. So that's the story of 2001. To read the media and follow it then he would have heard that on the Economic and Social Council a number was recently established four times lower, even below that figure, and that means no 80,000. So, you need to listen, follow the media, and then not spread the lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73126	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I have noticed these incorrect allegations that colleagues and colleagues have corrected, but I would refer to the moment where counterpart Cain said that the socialist in ex-Yugoslavia was better and better than in Sweden. So that's why our people went to Sweden and Germany, unfortunately to work with their belly after bread, they called for a pair of odd and numerous other moments that they could now quote you. But I'm glad that I've met with you fellow Caine another side besides what you're dreaming of, Tito, except that you're talking with nostalgia about the People's Liberation Fight, that you're socially sensitive and you're talking about a child's allowance. So I just want to know where you were then in the coalition government when it comes to censorship... Census by 50% was reduced to 40%, reflecting in 2003 39 600, e.g. In 2009, 45 857 children were born. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73128	And Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Cain there's no difference in living poor people in communism, socialism or what, there's no difference between poor people. It certainly does make a difference, so I wouldn't say poor women but people in need and that's the point. Thus, the degree of democracy, or the development of a society, is actually measured by the attitude to people in need. This law and the insistence of the Republic of Croatia on human beings are, in fact, proof of respect, proof of the understanding of people in need and acceptance. On the other hand, I think that if something is difficult for God, then he is not in need of difficult people, but he is in a difficult position to have an irresponsible relationship with people in need. And finally, if you're really going to start expropriating the expropriator, I suggest you start in the nearest neighborhood of your people with whom you're very close. Here, thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73130	For the club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Representative Nedjak Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that we at the HDZ Representatives Club are satisfied because at the time of the economic crisis, the adoption of a new Social Care Act is an effort by the Government to protect both the necessary ones and to protect the productivity of society as a whole. After all, our constitution states that Croatia is a social state. A country that cares about the well-being of all its citizens and citizens, especially the most vulnerable groups. These are unemployed, elderly without a pension, certain categories of pensioners, single-parent families, vulnerable ethnic minorities such as Roma, people with disabilities, fewer groups such as homeless, former prisoners or addicts and others. The Social Care Act represents the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has three objectives, which are: Better direction of cash compensation, better use of social services and guarantees a minimum standard of living to the most vulnerable groups. It particularly emphasises the meeting of the family and personal needs of vulnerable groups. The HDZ Representatives Club believes that the Final Proposal for a Law on Social Care is really well prepared. Special emphasis in the Law is given to the European Union guidelines on social inclusion. We can freely say that the degree of democracy as well as civilization is measured by sensitivity to the oldest, children, old, disabled, sick and materially powerless. This law represents a systematic reform of social care because it includes reform of cash compensation, reform of the social services system and their financing and reform of the public service system. The last amendments to the 2007 Law prescribed 15 rights and forms of assistance and for each right applied to different conditions and criteria, so the process of exercise of rights was complex and demanding. By pooling cash donations and introducing an inclusive supplement that will unite two more rights and will reduce this allowance for help and care and personal disability as we have already heard the administration. In addition, the separation of money from social services goes hand in hand to the user because it shortens the process and facilitates user access and rights and services. Users will be better informed about their rights, especially the promotion beyond institutional services and institutionalisation prevention services, resulting in faster social inclusion of users in the community. For the first time, the new Law introduces an inclusive supplement, this aspect inhales the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as it encourages inclusion in the Community, guarantees equality of persons with specific needs resulting from the long-term effects of damage to any physical, mental or sensory for which they need special support. The unique body of art for all systems will skill out what the possibilities and abilities are about the person being trained and not what the shortcomings and flaws of that person are. The plan of deinstitutionalisation and transformation of social care homes has hit the basis for planning social care. The social care development strategy will create conditions for decentralisation of the system. This means the transfer of founding rights to the Departments of Social Care in the county and the homes of social care to regional and local self-government, and when it comes to large cities or cities representing county seats and these cities. The basic rights of institutions would be transferred from 2012 to 2014 and over homes from 2013 to 2016. The deadline for transforming existing homes for older and powerless will be regulated by the rules. The strategy for the development of social care, the social plans of the county and the established network of public social services are the basis for the grant of concessions for the performance, the social care services provided by the Ministry naturally by the foundations of public competition. In 2007 the Law on fostering and developing services for older people in the intergenerational solidarity system was adopted in order to improve beyond the institutional forms of care and prevention of institutionalisation. It contributes to a better quality of life in the local community and prevents the institutional care of older people. The final text of the law prescribes commitments to regional as well as local self-government of temporary family care with underage children in crisis situations where the family itself does not have the capacity to resolve it in a way that provides for the family to rent an apartment or to settle it in some other way. The purpose is to prevent the separation of children from adult family members. Furthermore, the Law has quality equalized the foster family, organised housing or housing in the community of residential units. It is also improved in the provision if the family has two or more children with developmental difficulties, i.e. persons with disabilities, parent status can be acquired by both parents, and if it is a single-parent family with two or more children with developmental difficulties or a person with disabilities, the same status can be obtained by one of the family members. The final text is better than the law's proposal in the first reading when it regulates a working person and does not state why it is looking for a working activation. In the text of the law, there is no longer a term of mental illness because these persons are already covered by the definition of persons with disabilities. Furthermore, the Law clearly defines both the work and the distinction of concepts between institutional services and outside the institutional and institutional forms of care. And the early intervention service was previously prescribed in the application procedure. The final text makes it clearer to prescribe work in homes of care, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, so it is clearer to equalise the status of state and private service providers to be paid through instructions. A more clear procedure for granting one-time cash aid is also prescribed. The final text of the law also adopts an amended definition of homeless persons, provisions are laid down which are not irrelevant, on the administrative councils and the chairman of the expert council. And the final law represents a significant improvement in all aspects of providing social care in the Republic of Croatia, so the Final Proposal for the Social Care Act supports the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73132	Thank you. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for a Social Care Act. In our first reading, we had a number of remarks that we provided on four pages. These were the remarks of our expert council of the Croatian Peasant Party, as well as some professional associations that appeared from the field. I am pleased to say that through dialogue we have communicated all these remarks and that most of them have been adopted for what, of course, I thank here and the Secretary of State and Minister for Cooperation and of course, because it is the only and only best way to pass a law that will be both enforceable and to the benefit of all the users and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this law is extremely important, and so are all my predecessors, because it touches those most sensitive and vulnerable groups in society, and the degree of civilization of one society is measured precisely by the attitude of this society towards its most vulnerable members, children, older people, persons with disabilities, sick people, those who are too often on the margins of society itself that affects social exclusion. And social exclusion we all know leads to a violation or a failure to exercise the right of human, economic and social groups of people affected by it and is considered one of the most significant problems of the modern era because it leads to a decrease in the productivity of society as a whole. Poverty is also the cause and effect of social exclusion, which occurs mainly because of discrimination on some basis. The Republic of Croatia is a social state, a state that cares about the well-being of its citizens and therefore seeks to ensure a minimum of life for all members of society. The economic crisis has led to a large majority of citizens facing poverty, but we must not let the crisis hit exactly those most vulnerable. We want to believe that even in a difficult situation for everyone else, solidarity will not go away, that strength and will will be found to help those who, without this help, cannot. In order for a country to function in a balanced manner, good social relations are crucial to society, as society is built from individuals and groups towards the top of social institutions. In this great role there is social cohesion which implies the ability of society to provide welfare for all its members. As people we are directed at each other, we all go through periods of life when we need the help of others and a period when we can selflessly provide help to those who are in need. This mutual solidarity makes us better people, and, of course, it's never enough just laws, but good laws in that segment can be very helpful. We at the HSS Club together looked at this Final Proposal for a Social Welfare Act, compared it with the remarks we provided. As I was saying, those remarks were quite sufficient. And I must stress the satisfaction on behalf of the HSS club with the fact that most of our remarks have been adopted in the part of the equalization of foster families and communities of SOS children's villages in the section relating to how and conditions of choice of directors in social care, in the section relating to the right of users to choose a home, the right to accommodate children over 7 years of age, the right to the availability of financial resources of an allowance for the personal needs of the users of the accommodation and in an explanation as we have asked for the end to show the financing of the system itself. In fact, we haven't found a projection of how much these changes change funding needs, and from the very reason it seems that the financial resources actually remain the same, only to be deployed in a fairer way. In fact, in the European Union, social care spends an average of 1.5% of GDP, mostly in Scandinavian countries, and in most transition countries less than 1%. According to the reasons that we received in this law, it would be about 0.80% of GDP, which in reality also corresponds to current economic power. But here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I want to draw attention to the two remarks we've made that haven't been adopted. We believe that because of the operationality and implementation of the law itself, it would be important to reconsider these remarks. In particular, the State Secretary, in Article 219(4), states that the capacity of accommodation is 70 beds for adults and that between two homes with that capacity must be more than 1 km apart. Given the current situation, it seems to us at the HSS Club that it is still an unrealistic provision that will be difficult to comply with. I'll give you a few examples. The example is the House for the Old and Powerless in Karlovac, which has a capacity greater than 200 beds, which is precisely adapted by one building 300 meters away from the existing home, it will be a default and if this provision remains in place in Article 219. we can conclude that the question is whether the deposit will be given the right to provide services. We also think that it is illogical to determine the distance of space because we see no reason why another home could not be near the first. There are examples like this other than Karlovac, the same thing is in Koprivnica, Sisak, and certainly in Zagreb and when it comes to the distance between homes, but also when it comes to capacity itself. We see that you have given a 10-year deadline here, but we are still afraid that the construction of new homes that would meet this 70-bed criterion will be problematic from the financial aspect for both cities and the county, so I would ask you to comment later. It is also not accepted by our proposal that Article 266 which regulates the passing of expert exams to those who have 10 years of work in the profession acknowledges that they have already been trained professionally, and they must be subject to a professional examination within a year of the adoption of the law that we really do not need, because if someone has been working in the profession for 10 years it is assumed that he is well aware of the profession. We believe in the HSS club that we should also review the provisions relating to the conclusion of a life support contract with business incapacitated persons, old people and persons with disabilities because the contract allows for the spotless play of the abstention. It is believed, as we are informed by expert associations, that even 1% of these contracts cannot be said to be 100% respected, which means that there is obviously chaos on the market, or in that segment. It is clear that this was settled by other laws, above all by the Law of Mandatory Relations. However, it seems to us that through the Social Care Act, a preventive provision should be put in place for such contracts to be concluded only with full participation and control of the Social Care Centre. Because if this condition remains and this provision is not deleted from the Law on Mandatory Relations, we are afraid that this will cause further problems. Namely, in the contract of the so-called so-called the life-restraint of the law is allowed, hence the fully legalised possibility of the life-sustainer to enter into a life-restraint contract in one day, transfer the same day of the assets of the abstentioned person to himself and that property the second day of sale, leaving the dependent person without property and leaving it. This happens often, and after all and in the best case scenario, the supporter prepares under quotes from an old person or person with disabilities in a poor person who pays for their pension. In our opinion, there is a need and this extremely high need to strengthen control in state social institutions, but also in foster care, and we believe that the Ministry of Health and Social Care in this segment will intensify the work of its inspection services. Namely, the social care system rests on the subsidiarity model, which, of course, implies the responsibility of both the individual and the family for their own social security. And the role of the state is to help to prevent and eliminate social threats. The great importance of social care as a support for a better quality of life for every person in need of community support obliges each country to invest all available potentials in the field of planning, development and management of the social care system in order to provide as effective and quality social care as possible. This law is very important for the entire community and it points to the care of the state and local communities for those who need any form of social care. We at the HSS Club think that the law is good, that it fully embraces the social care system and we will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73134	Thank you. At 12.45, it was time to report a hearing of 10.00 minutes. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal for a social care law after first reading at the HDSSB club again raises doubts and thoughts about not accepting this final bill on social care for a number of reasons. The proposed law argues that the conditions for further decentralisation and delegation of powers to units of regional self-government are being created, which, according to the proposed legal provisions and these articles, is actually invisible not to say otherwise. Rarely in the world can be found a specimen or a country like Croatia, so not only in Europe but also in the world, in which the government in the past eight but several years has so signifiablely and so apparently robbed its own people and so that a large number of citizens have become social cases, in the economic crisis that is taking place here, where the gross social product continues to fall, where there is no way out of this crisis. Therefore, social care has become very important in the system, and the Constitution itself speaks of Croatia as a social state and the need for social security of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the Law on Social Welfare itself and this final proposal, there are also provisions in the articles for which there are questions when these articles are overly and responsibly considered. Article 114 states that in crisis situations when a family with underage children loses its home and is unable to secure its own accommodation of a unit of the area, so regional and local self-government are obliged to provide them with temporary accommodation in a social housing or otherwise to prevent children from being separated from adult family members. You know Mr. Secretary of State and colleagues and fellow MPs that the county has no social housing. If so, social housing should clearly distinguish the obligation. Because such a defined provision leaves room for neither county nor local self-government units to ensure it. We need to determine exactly who has to, and who can further as our standard provides more than a minimum standard. Article 158(3) states that if a home of social care, a religious community, an association or another legal person acquires a profit, the profits shall be used for the development of activity or transferred in the following year. In accordance with Article 57(2) and (3) of the Financial Regulation, The Law on Institutions states that, in the exercise of its activity, the institution acquires a profit, the profit shall be used exclusively for the performance and development of the activity of the institution in accordance with the instrument of establishment and the statute of the institution. Therefore, the Law on Social Care does not need to regulate this issue because it is governed by the Law on Institutions applicable in this case. Furthermore, when it comes to administrative councils, Article 194 and Article 3(2) states that one member of a representative of a unit of the regional (regional) self-government shall, on a proposal from the administrative authority, appoint therefore the competent social care officer in that unit. The proposal to appoint a member of the Board of Directors of the Social Care Office should be made either by the mayor or by the County Assembly, by the County Assembly, rather than by the administrative body responsible for social care. Furthermore, when it comes to the establishment of social care homes, Article 219(4) states that the home of social care can have up to 30 places for children by location and up to 70 places for adults by location. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The question is whether this item also applies to homes for older and powerless persons, since they are not covered by the plan to deinstitutionalise the transformation of homes of social care and other legal persons in the Republic of Croatia in 2011-2016, i.e. the "National Journal", number 36 since 2011. Social care homes and other legal persons are required to coordinate their accommodation capacity according to the deinstitutionalisation and transformation plan of social care homes and other legal persons. The plan therefore concerns the homes of social care and other legal persons who carry out social care activities for children and youth without adequate parental care, children and youth with behavioral disorders, children with developmental difficulties and adults with disabilities, and mentalally ill adults. If it does not apply then these institutions should be excluded when talking about the accommodation facilities of social care homes in one location. If it refers to homes for older and powerless persons, then the question is what will happen to all the facilities currently being built or already built, as we have an example of one home in Slavonia, Đakov, which are being financed from decentralised funds, i.e. an even more important question of what will happen to the users of the services of these homes, given that the capacities are already insufficient. The administrative board of the home and defined in the legislative proposal of Article 222, and in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, it is referred to the representatives of the founders of the board of directors, who must have at least completed pre-graduate or graduate studies, and the representatives of the users suggest home users. The question arises, therefore, who shall appoint it as the administrative council of the home, as referred to in Article 4(2) of the Administrative Council of the House shall appoint the founder, and according to paragraph 5 of the Staff Committee shall appoint a working council, i.e. the worker's name, the questionnaire. Furthermore, paragraph 9 of the same article states that the selection and appointment procedure is determined by the law establishing, or the statute of the home, and, at the end of the dessert, it is further very unusually formulated paragraph 3 which sets out in the first part the level of the professional training, at least a pre-graduate or graduate study for members of the board of directors, representatives and founders, and as a second part of the sentence of the same paragraph, it is determined that the user's representatives are proposing at home, which may be contradictory and controversial in specific cases. In accordance with Article 242 of this Legislative Proposal, paragraph 3 states that a unit of local self-government, a company or other domestic and foreign legal person may provide accommodation and residence services up to 20 users, without the establishment of a home, under the conditions prescribed by this Act. The procedure for determining in paragraph 5 shall include the procedure for determining the fulfilment of the conditions for the provision of legal persons' services referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article by the expert commission appointed by the minister, except for the provision of services to older persons for whom the procedure is carried out by the unit of the regional (regional) self-government. The question arises which provisions of the law lay down the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 of Article 242 for the provision of accommodation and stay services to up to 20 users, without the establishment of a home. We believe that in the chapter of concessions, so these are articles 161 to 169 of this proposed law, there are a large number of provisions of the Law on concessions, published in "National Journals" number 125 of 2008, which are unnecessary in this law, therefore re-iterated, because it can only be called on, it is enough to call for the application of the Law on concessions, and not have nine articles in relation to therefore concessions on homes for social care. Since it is clear that the units of regional self-government have been subject to this legislative proposal by a hot financial potato, it would also be a commitment, and without support and escort in terms of the means that the state would be either in debt or in support of the regional self-government unit, we remain as for the first time, to say unfortunately, in the opinion that this legal proposal by the HDSB club would not accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73136	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73137	I thank Mr. Vice President, here I will correct Mr. Grubisic's incorrect quote. At first, he said the government had robbed its own people in the last eight years. I think that's incorrect. I don't think so, but I know it's incorrect. If someone was robbing, then he has a name and a last name, they're individuals. And that's the way to talk about it. It's the same thing as saying now that the Croatian people were doing war crimes. Which is incorrect. If someone was working, they were working again. And when it comes to social rights, as I speak, it is well known that Croatia above average gives social rights and even resents it in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73138	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73139	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow here at the end of the debate clubs to give some clarifications perhaps which during this debate have appeared. First of all, I have to stress and I have to look into social care is no "ugly duck" in the mega ministry, as the Ministry of Health and Social Care is certainly not some mega ministry. It deals with its 4 resistors, so civilian victims, sanitary inspection, health care and social care. And I can freely say with great pleasure that while at the Ministry of Health and Social Care it was done much more than it was done in time even when it was an independent ministry. Helping the poor is exactly what this law predicts, that the poor who cannot alienate their property, means that he remains poor, too, so that we don't force him to take away his property to get our help. I guess taking away our property is enough. So this legal proposal is now going, and we're going to say it in favor of the poor, because we don't want it for property that he can't alienate, we're aware of how many grandfathers are inherited, how many are those values that simply have sentimental value, but we're going to call it real estate. And that's why they wouldn't give help. Is that right? It's not. And that's why we didn't accept, we didn't accept another fact that I'm going to remind you again, and it was about the debate that 100 budget bases are the value of real estate, which is why we put that if someone has the right to 45 square meters of apartment, and he has 55 that we don't make a big village of people. That's why that provision was put in place. We'll still give him help no matter what he's got 10 and 15 and 20 squares more than we've secured. That was the meaning of 100 budget bases maximum. But also if someone has a cottage that they can rent or rent, if someone has another facility or an apartment that doesn't live in it it's clear that it's necessary and that it's a principle of subsidiarity to take care of himself first, and if he's not able, then the state will take care of him and then there are certain rules. And that's why we've put a limit of 100. I must say with pleasure also that the networking of the system and informing the social care system is at an end. Therefore, not only has physical networking been executed, it not only connects itself with other systems via the APIS, where via the OIB it will certainly be a change of data, but also in a good part complete and importing all data on users into the Republic of Croatia. However, I am surprised at some who comment otherwise today, which is family centers, which are suddenly found in the Social Care Act. I'll say here I'm a little surprised because in the existing Social Care Act, which is still in force until you in this House pass this law, you've just defined family centers. So they are defined by the existing Social Care Act, the way it is formed, that there are no administrative councils, so there are those who believe that even our social welfare centers shouldn't have and didn't have them. They didn't have them until 2001 when only 3 parts of the law were made in three amendments. I'm sorry there's no one to think of it, when one change was made in the third month, in the sixth, the board of directors was introduced into the welfare centers. We haven't noticed in this period of time that these boards of directors were of such importance that our centres would work better, but that the directors we've come across at these welfare centres were the most important part of the responsibility where they signed everything we saw here were very, very big problems. Therefore, anything regarding family centres can be said that it has been taken over from the existing law in cooperation with the resolution ministry which it simply has to lead. As far as 70 people are concerned, which we talk a lot about today. We also had discussions various public about... where the profession spoke, we had various declarations, we took on various commitments, but today when we pass the Social Care Act, we forget it today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're forgetting this deinstitutionalization procedure. The reduction of these large units from 200, 300, 400 people in one space. It's clear, I repeat again, and I'll repeat, it won't happen overnight. No home is closed tomorrow by passing this law that has over 70 people. But the direction is that tomorrow when we give approval to someone to open a new home, we set a limit for them and we tell them but 70 people at one location at the most. And not in two years or three years we say it again, so we can't put it into law when we have people who have invested in homes of 200 people. So somewhere we must finally draw the line. And to those who are in this business today, we are giving a deadline of 10 years, there may have been a proposal that would have accepted as many things as we have accepted, to be 15 years old, but to know that at some point this will finally come and that this deinstitutionalisation process which is extremely important is extremely crucial that the Croatian people who are getting older, citizens of Croatia who are getting older and getting ready not to be an associative form, but precisely to be accepted in the community and to participate in that community regardless of their impotence, age and anything else. As for manipulations in the system, to go to some homes all the time, to some never, to someone like this, to someone like that. I'd like any such manipulation to be reported. He can go to the Ministry for an e-mail. Because the ministry is just on the basis of anonymous reports that are coming, even anonymous ones, sending them to some homes, that's right, we've already gotten tired of some homes, but the reports are coming, we're finding irregularities, we're asking that there's an I.D., but we can't talk in principle, or even someone might know that there's an argument, so if he's speaking with an argument, I think it would be a civic duty to say what home it is, which the health and social care inspector in that home has seen something through his fingers or something else. This is how we take care of people who work at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, toss home to the Republic of Croatia, away from having no problem, so that we don't have a problem, but it doesn't mean that in all homes, and everything that's manipulation is definitely we think we have to intervene. I don't know what kind of consultants from Great Britain are talking about. I have to say here at this assembly, I who personally participated in this, I've never seen any consultants from Great Britain who worked on this bill. Maybe it was in another term, maybe 10, 7 years ago, but in these two terms of this government, I didn't have any introductions to consultants from Great Britain. But we also have to say that we had meetings, that there were experts from law school who are calling themselves here today that they didn't. They delivered, therefore, I will specify the names Šućur, Zrinjsčak, Family-Ljubotina, delivered the comments on this draft when, after we had drawn up a draft we brought in a so-called the final project. They made observations on 30 stations and you know what was in those remarks, 90% of them were respected. And now I'm going to tell you what's not respected so you can see it. First, there is no increased basis for social giving, it was only increased in the poverty line section, it was their proposal. Since we haven't called the Council of Social Services, why? Because a strategy has already been adopted, even though this proposal had not been adopted, it would have been called the Social Council and not the Social Care Council at County level. We said that in the county we were setting up a Centre for Social Care rather than a social care service, although it seems to me a little bit like a purely termological thing, the experts of the Faculty of Law thought it had its weight but we stayed with our proposal. In the Ministry, we are not setting up a social security office but social security, although the terms of insurance and protection have been discussed with experts and the proposal to immediately implement complete decentralisation has not been accepted from everything I said here today. Also, according to everything I said in this debate, I say today four groups of amendments have been adopted on boards. The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Care, and Parliamentary Representative Ljubica Lukačić and the Committee on Information, Information and Media submitted amendments. All these amendments they have submitted can be freely submitted on behalf of the promoter that we are now accepting and watching, this Final Proposal that you are discussing fully along with these amendments. I hope in further individual debate if better solutions are further found that could certainly fix any good thing that is made that we will also consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73140	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. It's 15 o'clock. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73141	We'll continue the afternoon session. We're starting an individual discussion. The first is the distinguished representative of Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say that by discussing this law we really had the opportunity to hear very bile and polemic very loud by the profession, by civil society associations and I would say by politics. This law, therefore, concerns 300 thousand users, 200 institutions, 11 thousand employees, one extremely complex problem, an important activity of special interest for the Republic of Croatia that should have been approached and extremely serious. I'm kind of under the impression that, unfortunately, it hasn't happened, even on the contrary, I think this problem has been approached very quickly, somewhat unseriously and as if you don't know, and I know that you know that interventions in this system are extremely delicate because they concern very sensitive categories of citizens and bad moves, bad decisions and bad laws can indeed cause inconspicuous consequences. The way you wanted to get through this law and that ultimately will work somewhere is at the border... Mr. Vice President, with all due respect, if there's no one from the Ministry, then I really don't see why I should say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73143	Well, here's the secretary of state from the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73144	Mr. Secretary of State wasn't here just 30 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73145	So please nice, if he was sitting there, you move on. We listen very carefully to you and to all those who are here in the assembly. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73146	Thank you for making me... So, the way you wanted to get through this law and that you're finally going to make it through is at the border to be a kind of embarrassing thing like it's some kind of leap action that has to be secret and urgent. [[You don't understand.]] First, you wanted the law to go through with an emergency procedure but then you gave up on the public, and you didn't really have to because this law is hard to fix in six readings, let alone two. Secondly, you haven't spent as often as you say, one quality and extensive public debate, and the proof that that is so is the fact that you have no consensus, that you have no consensus with anyone, with no profession, no politics, no civil society associations. But if you had something really ahead of you then it was time, because we've been waiting seven years for social care reform, we've been waiting seven years for you to present to us a strategy for the development of social care and we've been waiting for social care to start changing. This system is now firing at seams and the way it is, so both slow and inefficient and bureaucratized, in ruins, almost better we don't even have it. The only thing that's worth it is the people we've brought to the limits of endurance and the fact that we need a whole new concept, a whole new system of efficient, modern and flexible that is able to respond to the needs of citizens. So, as a result of your seven-year reflection, the World Bank's loan of 31m euros was spent, spending a 1.6m gift from Sweden. Are we discussing strategy today, no? Are we discussing reform, no? We are today discussing the Social Care Act that you claim to be the basis for some kind of reform, but I think it is a completely reverse logic because you should first talk about what the objectives of the reform are, how the reforms are going to be implemented, which will happen in certain time cycles, etc. Therefore, the law should have been an instrument based on which a particular strategy or a particular policy would be implemented. The law is just an instrument that serves operationalization and therefore the way you started the reform, as you call it, is very unusual. However, your message is very clear and your message is said and dangerous because I don't believe that this accidentally slipped away from you, as if you don't know what's going on in what order. I believe you know very well, but you don't really care. You are in some way demonstrating force and demeaning both Parliament and profession. It doesn't matter to you whether the strategy or the law is discussed first because no matter what we discuss as the first thing, nothing will change anyway. So you're practically public debate, as much as you claim to be the opposite, you didn't even allow it because your waist obviously has nothing to say. You are, and that's a fact, because we get some information from that profession too, so we hear that the law was delivered at the local level on Thursday, and you asked for a statement Monday. We also know about this great commission that you often mention, it's actually just a fig leaf. We also know about the commission that worked for a year, but the fact is that you disbanded it. The question arises why you disbanded this expert commission, did you disband it because five articles of the law in the morning list came out? That seems absurd to me. I'd say you disbanded him because you didn't like what the expert commission wrote. Whoever this is at the end of what we're discussing today and writing remains the fact that this law, given the time and money you've had, given the promises you made, given the real state of the welfare system and, in the end, is actually an unacceptable and inadmissible document. And so to discuss certain articles, I don't think it really makes any sense, because you've come to this business extremely unseriously regardless of the time you've taken for it. As I said in the first debate, the fact that you are inconclusive is the fact that you are talking about major improvements which in Article 11, which in Article 5, you are actually not planning any funding from the state budget for this major reform that you are talking about. So it's absurd that you can make such big changes and quality shifts in the system without a zero kuna. I really don't get it. Then, it is difficult to take away the impression that you have literally rewritten some parts of foreign legislation, which in some ways have become a bit of a practice for you. You have taken some solutions from similar foreign laws without adapting the specific conditions of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions of life of citizens, the state of the economy etc. Because if that weren't the case, you wouldn't have an article in 219 saying that the accommodation capacity, for example, is 70 adults' homes and that the distance between individual locations must be more than 1000 meters. So I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, have you ever heard of the House of Retired Cantride in Rijeka, which is one of the largest retirement homes that has the capacity of 400 people located in three locations, and these three locations are less than 100 meters away. So now you tell me. Regardless of the transitional period, what will the House of Retired Cantride do? How's it going to work? Because it can't become one retirement home from three branches, and it can't be three separate retirement homes. So now I've given you a concrete example of how you've done absurd things, a chaotic situation that's impossible to solve. It's just one example. Of course I don't have time to list everything I want and what I should end up with. So it's impossible to support a document that's so vague and so inconclusive and unconsistent, that respects neither the profession nor the real situation on the ground. And if we've had a difficult situation on the ground by now, you'll see what it means to have a chaotic situation on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73147	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It would be difficult to correct any incorrect allegations that a colleague of Jerkovica, for only her own known reasons and her parties, brought here to note this law, as remarks to this bill. I will correct the incorrect assumption that the problem has been approached very quickly because the colleague herself later in her speech has been corrected. However, it is very inappropriate to say that this problem has been approached very quickly. Do we know that in some time this same law that we are changing today has experienced three amendments and additions in one year? And calling after comprehensive preparations and other things that he approached quickly and gave those attributes that you told the government and the ministry of this law is not quite this High House. And besides, my colleague, when you were last in some welfare facility, social welfare homes to see what the World Bank's loan and donations to the Prime Minister have been invested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73149	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here I'm actually going to refer to your opening part first when you say that this law is one of the very important, or fundamental laws of society. And I'm going to say first something that's good, which is that you erased the term of a mental patient, or that you put it in, that it's, of course, people with disabilities. It is also seen in one way the recognition of one parent family and this solution of the problem over the definition of SOS children's village. You also pointed out that it was being implemented and that centralised is being conducted which, of course, I would disagree with, and I actually think that decentralisation is the real success of every system. Of course, that's what I mean by that second phase you're talking about, which is financial, or fiscal and administrative decentralisation. In this case, I believe that, of course, state bodies, i.e. the ministry, institutes, should actually play a role in determining, just setting guidelines, possibly some evaluation, and will actually feel the success of the system. I am also of the opinion that policy guidelines or strategies must be to respect local differences, i.e. to leave some parts to local self-government that each according to its own resources or abilities, the possibilities can still be a little more flexible. From the debate of her colleague Opačić, we heard the fact that we have 25 children under 10 years in the home of Maslina, and we know what our tendency is to host such children. However, there is no foster parent, as we know in this area. Here I would suggest a new form, and that's the weekend foster parents. I have my own experience here because I just took it, now it's a grown woman who has two children, but I also had her during her childhood and after her growing up just on weekends as a foster parent. It's my personal experience, and that's why I'm proposing it. The aim of otherwise social care is, of course, to support programmes that will help citizens actually take care of themselves, of their neighbors. It's actually a help-up to just help. I think we'd kind of have a better emphasis on that part. I support, of course, the dodging of the expensive, I mean the dodging. I can't say dodging but preferring, giving preference to associations and programs that encourage inclusive programs. Because I also think that direct funding is very common to us by throwing it into the wind. A certain right means you have to cut what you cut into some from 12 to 8 of those rights. However, I would suggest here that if we have help and care to transfer services out of support, because it is better to give them services than to provide financial support. Then what I would say is that very often working, implementing various programmes, and now I'm going to tell you when we work at the Crime Prevention Council, where the Centre for Social Care is also one of the links, that we should actually work a little more on the cooperation protocol between systems to solve a variety of citizens' problems. From conversations with employees at the Social Care Centre, I found out in fact that the existing system, that there are great dissatisfactions in the functioning of the current system, that the centres are trapped in the network of administration, that the reduced field work, the staff is unmanned, and there is a lack of education, and there is also the lack of supervisory. Therefore very often comes the service itself, i.e. the quality of the service becomes questionable in that case. We also have a lot of obligations that you've made in this law, it's on the units of local self-government, I say again with what means, since fiscal decentralisation has not been made. And one more thing would be to refer to when you said that you were going through this law through a quality public debate, I disagree because of all the objections I received as a representative, and you have noticed that in all the days after public publication you should have given an opinion on a draft strategy for the development of social care, so you are also warning yourself of non-compliance with the code of consultation with the public in law-making procedures. Yesterday I received comments from the logo, so I'd like to give it to you. They sent me a letter in this regard by studying the strategy for the development of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia, one small part being seen as users of logo services, and as a future development of logopedic activity. Logopedia is a much wider profession, and so far it should not be pushed into a group of activities that are minimally described by its area of action, as well as end-users of the logo therapy, which most actually works in health institutions. That's what I support them for, why? Therefore, according to the definition of social care, it is an activity carried out as a public service, which ensures and implements measures and programmes intended for socially endangered persons, as well as in persons in adverse personal or family circumstances, etc., while health care includes a system of social common individual measures of activities to preserve and improve health, prevent diseases, etc., as is said in the definition. So the logos are trained to work on rehabilitating hearing language and speech, hearing damage, prevention, rehabilitation, etc., and with people with cerebral disorders, we know... It's the logos that are involved in this team again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, when we look at primary health care, we know that, especially in the health care of children and preschool and school age, as well as in the protection of mental health, there are also logos involved with the doctor, as shown in Article 26. The health care law. Thus, the logos are in the world as the most common science, and they are located in the area of health, and very rarely in the area of education, as well as a license for the logod private practice in European countries, most often issued by the Ministry of Health. So we see that the work of the logopedic profession belongs to the health care section, I am aware that education goes to social colleges, and that as a social university, health care professionals, workers can not actually be implemented, but they do work health care. So you should think about a new model, maybe as there are clinical psychologists, the secretary of state may also be here clinical logos, and I think in this case, I actually support them that at this point should put them outside of social care, which is more what they do from primary health care, but also do at clinical hospital centres, but not only of course, but also in education, they do in kindergartens, so I think this is a complex process, so that this profession of logos should actually agree where they are. Of course, it can't be determined only through this ministry, that we should work together with the Ministry of Science, precisely because of this area that I mentioned earlier, but I support them that right now they should still be out of this social care, because they think that in this way their activity is actually being constrained. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73151	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I use this individual discussion of my own to respond to a correction of the incorrect quote given to me by Mr. Bagarić, a colleague of Bagarić, to define what I meant when I spoke to the speaker about standardisation of social care services. I agree that Article 156 provides for quality standards for social services and quality committees. However, I have discussed in the opening words on behalf of the club in the context of analogy with standards of pre-school education, so I also believe that there should also be unique criteria for all social care facilities, in terms of nutrition, in terms of living, living and working conditions. I wouldn't say it by heart if I didn't have a tip that individuals in order to improve their business would not be looking for goods and food products that are close to the expiry date, to get as good a price as possible. We therefore have some phenomena that we must not close our eyes to, and for this reason, not for any other reason to have a grudge against the legislator of this law, I ask the very objective and reasoned question of standardising living conditions and working in social care facilities. Another thing I would like to say is what the legislator of this law says, which is that the large cities and cities of the headquarters of local units are further committed to providing in their budgets funds for the establishment of folk cuisines. I believe that there are excellent solutions in large cities and that this should not be institutionalised. Because when we read literally the law, when someone is talking about starting a soup kitchen, it means that we will have an institution to deal with it. However, large cities have excellent solutions where the service of the soup kitchen is organized, that is, organised human nutrition services that are weaker in property power, so those who sort of meet certain criteria. Furthermore, the following is done: in certain cities, the arrival continues, so to the place of residence, so the place of residence of the beneficiary. So that food is practically driven home and the service is fully organized without having to institutionalize it in some way, to have a soup kitchen as an institution. So one such service can also function without establishing a soup kitchen like, under quotes, from an "institution". I would further move on to the part of the amendment where I left off and that we offered both as a club of HNS-HSU and as myself. So I suggest that in Article 33(4), which says: "Children according to their age and maturity and adults deprived of their business abilities have the right to participate and to give an opinion in all the procedures in which they decide on their rights." We propose to add the second subparagraph – the procedure is carried out by an official person qualified to work with these users. The procedure should ensure the presence of parents, guardians, or legal representative of the user. With a brief explanation – given the specificity of this user group, it is necessary to ensure circumstances in which the maximum level of understanding of the needs of users and their most appropriate protection is guaranteed. Furthermore, in Article 36(1), which speaks of the user of social care, we propose to add his guardian or legal representative who is not satisfied with the service provided, the procedure or the behaviour of the person, thus continuing this paragraph. And we propose after, in Article 36 after point 2. add point 3., which would say: "In the event that the service provided is dissatisfied users, their guardians or legal agents, children and young victims of violence, children and women victims of domestic violence, persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups, the Director and other persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be obliged to inform the competent counsel no later than 8 days." This virtually closes the total circle of all this information to all those who are able to intervene so that someone’s right is not violated. Furthermore, in one part of our amendments, it is still contained that accommodation capacity is not limited at this time because it takes time to develop non-institutional concerns and that we have some pressure on homes for older people. We therefore suggested that this number be 100 users compared to the proposed 70 as a compromise solution which could be pursued within the next 10 years as explained to me by Mr. Secretary of State. Otherwise, we have another problem, we mention in the law of the basic need of the family. I think there's something missing. We'd miss one of the family's consumer baskets here. One elemental need, something to catch up on, something to say whether or not certain interventions are necessary to individuals or social groups. So we don't have a basic etalon of the basic needs of the family, or we don't have the etalon of that consumer basket that is needed for the minimum functioning of the family, or individual. So it would help us a lot, and here we don't have it in this law. It's possible to solve it at the end of the day and with the Minister's regulations. Not to say that you can talk about it in standards. The following interventions are related to the family center. We have two interventions at the family center, and we have an article 98 in point 6. We propose that point 6 be amended in a way that reads: "Determining the need to provide family counseling and assistance services and to keep information on the success of the provision of services to family centres, and the service is provided by professional workers of the family centre, institute, social care homes and other legal and physical persons performing the activities of social care. In cooperation with other service providers in the community and other persons who can influence the family." In Article 99, we would also like to improve the expression in paragraph 3 of this Article by adding "the experts of the family centre are organised and provided by the professional staff of the Institute, the Family Centre and other legal and physical persons who have obtained authorisation for the work, or the licence". So, there is a unique explanation for these 2 interventions, and it is: because of the importance of the family as a psychosocial core of society, we believe that family centres should be profiled at the reference centres for organising psychosocial assistance to the family, family mediation and related services for the evaluation of the success of interventions, for the management of appropriate databases. We believe that it is rational to invest in the development of targeted competences of family centre professionals because all of this together increases the level and quality of services of users. So, I conclude my individual debate with these amendments being solely motivated by the desire to make the existing law as much as possible to correct and sort of build up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73153	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73154	I am correcting one of your incorrect allegations when you have found in your reply and debate that the standards of quality of social services are laid down in Article 156 of this Act. Unfortunately, this article has not established any standard of quality of social services, perhaps you have missed it but is just determined that it will be determined by the Minister by his rules. I'm just saying it wasn't established by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73155	Thank you very much. And we have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73156	Thank you very much. You mentioned a soup kitchen or a commitment to local self-government to pay, i.e. to finance a soup kitchen, organize and finance. You also mentioned that in some cities it is already in force, that it is done. Or that it is very good to highlight examples of good practice I will highlight the example of Dubrovnik here. When we have the cooperation of local self-government with civil society, I will highlight here the "Blessed Works" Foundation that work with us through the social assistance measures of the city of Dubrovnik, through social programs because we actually finance the soup kitchen. Also, speaking of the "Blessed Works" foundation, I must say that they also help us to provide temporary family care, which is also highlighted in the Law. Therefore, this is an example of how local self-government can, when it cannot do so alone in collaboration with civil society, how it can improve the standard of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73157	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73158	I'd like to thank my colleagues Bonačić. Perhaps I was really wrong not to mention good examples, for there are many good examples in our cities and counties. I know that Pula also organizes to bring meals to users, and something that has a long tradition is in Rijeka. I would not like to advertise the restaurant he is called Victoria, victory but for more than a decade this restaurant has been implemented throughout this program and very successfully to meet all users with continuous quality control. I know that in certain cities, the entire programme of delivery of meals is immediately extended and volunteering whether it is organised by the Croatian Retired Unions or some other civil society associations because it is very easy to link the programme to the help in the home, help and care of the house, which is also a quality programme for volunteering and greatly enhances the overall impression of caring for those who are weaker in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73159	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73160	Thank you very much. I agree with you in the section in which you spoke about popular cuisines that Article 14(4) provides for large cities and cities of county headquarters to quote in my budget a normal article of the law "to secure funds for the establishment and operation of folk cuisines". I agree with you that it is not always the unit of local self-government that should be the headquarters and cities, the big cities and cities of the county headquarters that do not have to set up the soup kitchens, but as my colleague Bonačić said that we have these things and examples, and then it is necessary, not only in Dalmatia, Istria, Rijeka has such examples in Slavonia, Pakrac is not the town of county headquarters, there is no status of a big city, but there is a kitchen in collaboration with the Red Cross. Benkovac is also not the county headquarters, has a soup kitchen in Caritas. Therefore, civil society associations, religious communities dealing with these activities is simply an invitation, a clearly prescribed obligation here, these units of large cities and the county headquarters that must provide these funds and the way I agree with you does not have to be that cities establish a soup kitchen but should provide funds and provide a prerequisite for users to get help from the soup kitchen. And I also agree in this section that these soup kitchens are a very good upgrade of the help program in the house where we have the delivery of meals in Slavonski Brod but let's say the town of Slavonski Brod implements this program. The Ministry of intergenerational solidarity, family and defenders but there is no soup kitchen set up at this time. I hope this will be their incentive to meet that obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73161	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73162	The answer is very short, I am extremely glad to agree and in any case this may be encouraging and should not be rounded up to the county, large cities, so can the municipalities that have that need. So, when we're talking about organising a kitchen service. That's why it's better if we just have that formula without having to start a soup kitchen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73163	Thank you. We continue the debate individually. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all colleagues and colleagues who, however, in this afternoon's area when there are no television cameras, have given importance to this bill and shown great interest and this law needs this interest because it is really this law which deals with this Act of Public Interest and as such is of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We have already said several times so far how to actually reach a society of a certain measure or level that society has reached in its development in relation to persons who have special needs, so to families who have special needs, and I welcome this proposal of the law as an attempt by the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the regulation of this relationship. I'd also like to find the following. No one here has been or is now or will be one time able to be one person among those who needs the care of others, the help of others, or the care of the state as a whole. So no one apart from that is or at least can be. Therefore, all those attempts here that were intended to advance this bill were good, welcome and I welcome them. Also, I do not agree with the proposals or the discussions that were, above all, directly against this proposal of the law that it was not in fact possible to decide why some of the MPs who discussed it here were against, but were generally said to be having a brief debate, that there was not enough public debate, that some good proposals were not respected, etc. However, we are here to have Mr. Secretary of State record all our proposals all the time, and whatever we say wisely, I have no doubt at all that he will gladly sign up and actually make sure that it is incorporated into the bill. I would concentrate when it comes to this bill because it is large, on two segments that I consider very important and very high-quality. So the first part is so-called. An inclusive supplement, no matter how personal he disagreed with that very termological term, because we really need to strive, if we need to invent Croatian words and not use aliens, even though there are some foreigners who have actually become an integral part of our language. And what exactly is an inclusive supplement? This is the cash compensation for disabled people, and with the aim of their involvement in society, it is very important. It is very important to say that so far different persons with special needs have had different fees that many of them could neither benefit nor benefit from nor have served anything but have been more decorative in nature, and on the other hand they have actually contributed to large administrations and have rarely been an obstacle to achieving them. For this reason, I actually welcome the decision of the Ministry of Competent, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia which decided to actually sort into seven levels and fees, to simply set standards in relation to this and that people who have a special need have in a certain way compensation, a cash compensation from which they will indeed benefit, unlike so far, a system that did not have it, and therefore an inclusive supplement knew as such. Therefore, that only this change in this bill is great, it is significant, it is useful and it is to the benefit of those to whom this law is actually addressed and for which it is being brought. For this reason I understand that it is time, that we are in one arena of politics and that we are actually fighting here and towards our voters, but in any case I don't think this is the subject, that this law is not the subject of which we should collect political points, but it should actually be a serious endeavor of our own to actually do everything we can to solve this matter in the best possible way, and because of those why this law is passed. And the second segment I'm going to look back on now is about what Mr. Hrelja was talking about, who is now talking to the secretary of state, I don't mind, but the reason I didn't answer him earlier was because I was the next speaker behind him, so now I'm using that opportunity. When it comes to quality control, then first of all we need to know what quality it is, so we have to define it somehow. It's about quality that everybody talks about, and we all talk about it, and we don't rarely understand what quality it is. If it could somehow be defined in this case, so I will try to transfer that definition from health care to the field of social care, then perhaps it could be said that this relationship is an existing concern with one that could be provided in optimal conditions and which is the difference of less concern is greater. And how can we actually assess this relationship? Here's a colleague of the Temple based on the standards or indicators that you touched. It is important to know that when standards of quality of social services and quality standards are mentioned here on page 51, then it is very important to say that these standards are prescribed by the Minister, that a quality commission will be established. Then it is also very important to say that on page 57, respectively, Article 176 defines the issue of accreditation of social care homes and other legal persons providing social care services, and accreditation is actually deserved on the basis of inter alia and certain standards, and into these standards everything. There's no quality assessment on any basis, whether it's in industry, whether it's in medicine, in health care or in this case in social care, which doesn't cover everything. We cannot now talk about the quality of social care about what accommodation facilities our protégés live in, for example, in this case, for example, users of such care. They can be hotel hotels with 5 stars, and there is no waist within that space, and there are some other kinds of concerns left behind, and then we can't judge that the quality of the work is the center. Therefore, that is precisely the point of fact that quality control covers all possible parameters, and environment and parameters of the one you mentioned and in terms of nutrition and everything else, but also those parameters that cover the profession in terms of the involvement of certain services and how these services work with people who are in need. And they're all measurable and they can all be evaluated, they can all be improved and that's what quality control is about. I am also using the opportunity here and in fact the communication I had just before with Mr. Secretary of State and I welcome their efforts to install quality control parameters for social care into this law. And I'm thinking, here's Mr. Secretary of State to decide, or Government, but I think if there's a Ministry of Health and Social Care, we have an institution that's responsible for quality control in health care, so the Health Quality Agency and accreditation. It might not be a bad idea to add social care to the agency and simply follow the quality of social care as such and over and over again, and always to improve it again and again, and this is actually the goal of this law, namely all of these elements that are installed here and I think that they are, with an inclusive addition, a very important newspaper in accessing social care and a very important message of Croatian society and Croatian state at all. Finally, I conclude my debate with the finding, so this final bill is finally a good solution for social care and finally a good move in the social care segment that has long waited for one such law, and all the proposals and remarks that we have here and we hope, if they are truly useful, that Mr. Secretary of State will adopt them. And once again my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73165	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I support my colleague Bagaric for your debate, and I must point out that I am particularly pleased about what an inclusive supplement is, and also about any other rights that are rightly used by persons with disabilities, which you are in this supplement that is our bright future and we look forward to it because you discussed it so closely, which means that you have studied well what it means for people with disabilities. But I have to look back in the best way at just one sentence that you pointed out. So you've said nicely what an inclusive supplement is and for what reason a person with disabilities will exercise that right. However, as you said yourself, he will be right to equalise opportunities and to engage in the community so that persons with disabilities are equal to all other members of this society. This is not about any special needs, because the needs of people with disabilities who will meet this fee are not special needs. I had to make this right, not correct but well-meaning here, so that we would no longer use that term of special need. Because going to school, working, living a normal life isn't a special need. That it's been done a lot, and thank you for supporting this. Here's the secretary of state how many associations and we all spent how many days and hours together to find the best solution for people with disabilities, and I'm happy we made it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73167	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73168	I thank my colleague Lukačić and accept, I absolutely accept this in my own way a very nicely spoken and packed correction of my wrong, indeed wrong quote. But I think we understand that when I was talking about an inclusive supplement that I thought, first of all, that he was useful, so to those people who are actually going to pay the cash first and foremost, the compensation is if it can be shown evenly as it can be equalized. Because it is normal for a person with a certain difficulty to always live with these difficulties, and society is to be with them, to actually help that person cope with these difficulties as easily as possible. Here's a thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73169	Thank you. I think you've had your fun. And now the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73170	Dear colleague Bagaric, I hope we understand each other for the third time, and I will say one more clarification. Do you know when in the preschool education system, education created the need for this system to be regulated by standards. There was a need when property appeared, which is private and social property over these facilities. Because private and state or local self-government units don't mean the same thing. Private property is motivated with as good business as possible, as it is a living space and equipped with additional facilities. Since we have the same process today in social care facilities, we have almost half private, and half social or state founders... So units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, counties, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I say, there's a need for all of them, regardless of their property, to meet the minimum standard. So we can't. It must underline the line below which the standard of service must not be below. This is also the same value that one who comes into control on the basis of Article 156 where these standards are not really written can do nothing to measure the effectiveness of such an object of total professional work and everything else. And let me say, I agree entirely with what my colleague fixed. We really need to learn, get away from us, make a deal. But we have to officially speak as it is official, and officially there are people with disabilities. Anything else would mean the stigmatisation or ghettoisation of those persons, which is unacceptable in a developed society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73171	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73172	Well, I thank my colleague Hrelja for this second part of it, I thank you. I refuse to do this first. Why? So because you're asking me if I know when it started with those standards pointing to me is actually directing me that it happened the moment you didn't know how to create a private system. I'll tell you it doesn't or may actually be anything to do with each other, none. Listen to me well, listen to me well. What do you think was the private system in the countries of the former Socialist bloc? In Yugoslavia? In Russia? Was there a private system, like, in health care? No, it's not at all. When did you ask people who ran the health system how do you work? None of them told you the other do quality, quality work. Based on what quality do you work? Compared to who? You understand? Therefore, standards are necessary in themselves and follow standards equally in both private and public. Doesn't mean if there's a public institution that's a guarantee that I don't know how to work there. You understand? Therefore, standards are necessary regardless of whether they are private or social and I do not know which other sector. Wait a minute! And on the other hand, for God's sakes, I am telling you all the time in Article 156 is explicitly talking about standards of quality of social services. According to that, he can't see. Well, you do, then we don't have the same bill. Therefore, Article 156 of the Social Services Quality Standards No, it's not a title. It's an article that discusses the issue. [[Intruder: But that's the title.]] Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Capricorn: Please! Please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73173	Your Honor, I'd like you to calm down a little bit. And now we have a replica, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to Mr. Bagaric, I actually have to replicate and express my satisfaction, because I personally have spent a little less than 26 years of my working life at the Social Care Centre, so I must really express my joy that Mr. Bagaric has just noticed and cited all the really important values, so I would say in the multitude of this new law. But I also hope that Mr. Bagarić will share with me the view that this law has another really great value, which is that special attention is focused on the design and management of a local social policy which is both legislative and economically strongly supported by the central state, especially through the construction of an appropriate and financial system, the fiscal system. In fact, the Central State provides such a legal framework as the primary state’s task, in which it will, on the one hand, guarantee a sufficient level of economic security and stability to local units in the implementation of local social programmes, while on the other hand, taking account of the uniform and uniform development of all units of regional and local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73175	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. And it's up to the distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73176	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I would like to commend the legislator that, in view of this range between two readings, he has really respected a whole series of proposals and installed them in this text of the law that we are talking about here, and what he has not appreciated has explained and he has given too much reason why he did not. First of all, I'm talking about this law at all. I think it's most important to stress the following. That this bill does not reduce, and neither does any existing social law, means no right in the field of social care, it is very important to stress, because when you listen to individual MPs, then it turns out that simply people will lose I don't know some rights of theirs that are now... Now this law won't have them anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of cash merger fees is better defined and new financial support is also prescribed for disabled people, which is what colleagues have already talked about, which will certainly be of great help to many people with disabilities, and I especially need to highlight those who are worse and weaker now of social status. The proposed law defines more closely the property censorship which will be determined in the exercise of the right to social assistance, the property will be checked, and social assistance will be able to be achieved by persons or families whose total value of assets does not exceed 100 budgetary bases, which has already been spoken of here, which is somewhere around, over 322 thousand kuna, but also important to emphasise that it is exceptional to exclude a minimum living space per person of 35 square meters and 10 square meters for each member of the family. Checking the property will help social justice, and I believe that we all agree here, and that social justice is very important in achieving the right to social assistance. I don't think anyone's ever gonna think about that again, for example. in Zagreb, she is seeking social assistance and renting a house or cottage somewhere else or living in a 100 square-square apartment and complaining that he needs social assistance and that it is a social case. Although this could be discussed, because someone will say they can't eat squares, they can't eat walls, but there's a way to sort of take care of it. The law is also more concrete for labour users, because those who are offered a job will have to accept it, and there is no logic that someone refuses to work, and on the other hand is seeking social assistance or receiving social assistance. So the job offered to him was either he or humanitarian work, or some other kind, I think it would be correct, if he was already receiving social assistance, to accept such a job, or if he left the job or job that was subsidized then he was losing his right to help over the next six months. The disability for children with developmental difficulties, it is also important to stress, remains the same, it is a thousand 250 kuna, and families with two and more children with developmental difficulties are allowed under the new law that not only one, but also another parent can acquire the status of carers, and in the event that none of these parents could gain that status, this right can be recognised by one of the family members. I think it's one quality, certainly more than the law. The possibility is prescribed for families with two or more children with a certain degree of damage, parent status, so that they can acquire both parents. A person who has obtained the right to parent status will be able to use a vacation of 4 weeks over the year on his own request. And finally, the fact is that the state for the settlement of social rights according to all the laws governing the area of social care, annually stands out about nine billion kunas, which makes up about 2.7% of gross social products, and therefore it is understandable that the Ministry of Health and Social Care, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is doing everything to make the distribution of these funds fair. The existing rights, as I said before, will not be reduced at first, but in the future, more often, let's say and more stringently control the conditions of all those users receiving social assistance. Dear President, thank you very much, both colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73177	Thank you. We're continuing the debate individually. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73178	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will try to point out a few problems and ask a few questions that at least I haven't been able to notice during the debate. In addition to the fact that all social care institutions will have to carry out licensing for the provision of adequate social services, the law provides for a very complex system of supervision of the work of social institutions, therefore, from internal supervision, inspection supervision, administrative supervision, professional supervision, all of this in order to ensure that the service of the users is as high as possible. And that's okay. And in that part, I actually agree with what my colleague Bagaric said about it. However, the question arises what about the system of control of the use of social system funds? Namely, speaking of the proposal for the Social Care Act in the first reading, and referring to the principle of fairness set out in Article 23 of this legislative proposal, Minister Milinovic said this, I will quote him: "An individual who acquires certain social rights cannot live better and easier than one who earns financial resources by his own work." That's a really nice thing to say, but the fact is that we have a lot of local environments where it's very hard to live from our own work, as many social groups live, I can say it freely, on the edge of hunger. And that at the same time there is a mass problem of unintended use, i.e. spending social money where parents are able to work, so they are not sick but are not applying or reporting to the Employment Service, they refuse humanitarian work, and they are actually abstaining from their children’s social assistance. In such a situation, therefore, precisely because of non-intentional spending, a significant part of social assistance can be said freely, it is actually counterproductive because it does not contribute to the resolution of social problems that are actually designed to create new social problems such as greening and alcoholism, and additional financial resources are needed to address these new problems. And that's actually one thing, I'd say a domestic situation, which is causing a huge dissatisfaction of citizens in the local community. And that is why it is extremely important to set up such mechanisms to control the purpose of spending social money, social assistance to make the whole system more meaningful, more efficient, and to really get that social money to those who need it, not those who are resourceful and who are using disorder in the system. And, of course, it is extremely important to include persons who receive financial assistance in activities that ensure its socialisation, or social inclusion. One of the key factors in improving the efficiency of the social care system is, of course, professional staff. And it would be good to respect the structure of the population in certain environments when identifying the number of professionals in social care services. I'm going to say, specifically, at the Social Care Centre in Čakovec, there's a chronic lack of 20 professionals, social workers. The fact is that it is precisely the specific structure of the population in the Međimurje County that requires and the increased number of professional staffs and, of course, greater involvement of professional workers than the usual. In Međimurje, however, lives the largest percentage of the Roma population of their total number in Croatia and I must say that about 70%, for example, of the amount of funds intended for restraint goes to this particular population. And in the end, if you'll allow me the secretary of state, I'll ask two specific questions. For example, in Article 52(2) of the Social Care Act, children over 15 years of age are entitled to support maintenance if they are in a regular schooling system. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child is considered a child until the age of 18. I ask the question does this mean that a child over the age of 15 who is not in the system of regular education must be registered in the records of the Employment Office in order to exercise the right to assistance for maintenance? This question is also related to the Roma population. In fact, the majority of Roma minority children do not finish regular primary education, i.e. very few who continue secondary education. And my second question, Međimurje County is one of three Croatian counties that still doesn't have a family center. We know that family centres are founded by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. I must say, in Međimurje County, there are long-standing conditions for the establishment and start of the family centre and my question is quite concrete when will the ministry do its part of the job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73179	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's our guest, Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73180	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my predecessors have made a lot of reference to this bill, and I'm going to try to make some comments through a few articles. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions are added: in urban and rural areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially in remote rural villages where living space is very often inadequate and very small. Most often it is not possible to sell it because there is no interest in such properties. And under such circumstances living space should not be a condition for the exercise of rights. In the debate in the first reading, MPs drew attention to the inequality of the value of real estate, but it was not taken into account. The procedures for the recognition of the right to cash compensation and support and social care services are not simplified, but are even more complex and require more administrative work by the experts, which is why there is a risk that professional workers will put professional work with the client on account of the scale of work to meet the required form. In order to implement an extra-institutional strategy, adequate conditions should be provided in foster families, higher fees, continuous education and support. An adequate host network needs to be developed. For the time being, there are no extra-institutional forms of concern that could replace institutional accommodation and should be introduced within a short period of time. Article 145 refers to the use of social services. It's basically a model from health care. And what I'm asking here is, is it necessary to take a picture of him in the social care business when he doesn't give good results in health care? This proposal for a law does not state that persons performing social care activities in local self-government units should have adequate professional facilities to carry out social care activities. In quality standards, the emphasis is on human relations with the client, communication with the client, ethical moral principles, human rights, the preservation of the client's relations with the family, involvement and activities in the local community, but in order to meet all these envisaged criteria with clients, experts with the necessary skills and competences should work. The establishment of the social care office has not reached decentralisation, rather the current social care centres are completely losing their autonomy, the decision remains at the state level and, in part, at the regional level, where we see additional centralised and not those decentralisations that we all seek. The establishment and implementation of the Law is largely still in the power of the Ministry. One of the centers... County Institute and other centres branch, pays space, equipment, information system, funds for helping users are still in the jurisdiction of the Ministry, while the county has the jurisdiction of material costs of the Institute. The adoption of a social plan in the area of the county is underdeveloped and there is no minimum standard or criteria in the law, and we believe that in practice it will not make a good living as it happened with the health plans. Article 219(4) speaks of a home for adults, older and powerless, will have up to 70 beds. Given the current state and long waiting lists in state and county homes where accommodation is waiting in single rooms of 10 and more years, double rooms for 3 and more years, and also in the department of enhanced care, the question of whom this law will benefit. Of course, private homes that are half-empty because of high prices and not so high-quality services. It is certainly good not to build more homes from 300 to 400 beds as we have so far but 70 beds are really too small for some optimal organisation of work, above all quality, cheaper for the user and rational investment for the founder or owner. Article 223(1) speaks of the director’s management and organisation of the business and professional work at home, which is contrary to Article 224 because if the director has a calling that does not constitute a profession, he cannot conduct professional work but rather employs a professional head. So at some facility, one person will do two jobs for one salary. And in the second, there will be two employees, which collects business and leaves the professional director without the right to any additional assistance. Article 226 of the Director-General of the House shall be replaced by the President of the Expert Council, as members of the Expert Council and persons with medium professional training who are also often presidents of the Expert Council in view of the conditions for the Director to be high-ranking or post-graduate studies, such a person may also not be a deputy who is not sufficiently addressed to home operations and what the Deputy Director must be. I believe that the social care law should not be adopted in an emergency procedure before the human material conditions for its implementation are met, and until they are provided outside the institutional forms of concern in the local community. Furthermore, it is necessary to include in the preparation of the text of the law professional workers involved in this activity and their experience and theoretical and practical knowledge can contribute to a better quality... a system of social care that is relevant not only to marginal groups and other groups but to society as a whole. They remain under the Law of Laws and obligations, measures and activities largely in the jurisdiction of the Resistant Ministry, without greater influence by local self-government other than naturally imposed competences. The social care system is still too far-reaching, what is not regulated by the legislator's law... a way to subsequently adopt rules, strategies, measures and activities that I consider not to be the best solution but I consider it to be the law. I believe that there are too many types of monetary contributions to this law, 7 plus inclusive... which will be applied three years after the law is passed which ultimately leads to excessive administration and will not make access to rights and services easier for the user. A comprehensive and necessary reform of social care should... reform of the system's cash compensation system, social services and their financing or reform of the pension and health system. Without a quality strategy for the development of the social care system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not only referring to decentralisation of social care systems, the county, cities and municipalities, but to quality measures and objectives, and to activities that both state and local reform levels will not succeed. As you have already mentioned several times that this law has been prepared for 5, 6, 7 years I must say that it took you long to translate the law from England to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73181	Thank you. It is next to representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although I thought about starting differently in the debate, because of what has been going on for a long time, most of us repeat ourselves. The left-hand side of this assembly is against us, we are trying to justify what the Proposer has stated in favour of this Law and no one has touched today what is why this Law should be supported. This Law has given due attention to both the user and the user who is working with this user. In fact, there are a lot of talk about users and their rights, but we forget in these discussions I will use these few minutes to pay attention to and point to those good solutions that are given to organization or management, professional work, social care centres, or future institutions, and social care homes. Because the proposer in this case has taken into account everything that has happened so far as the lack of the existing law has happened then we have a deputy director in place, we are scheduled for a contract to be concluded with the Director for a period of four years. So far, colleagues and colleagues have been elected to the term of office by the directors of the social care and care centres. If they were able to manage the institution because the law was not prescribed and it was not established that they could return to their place of work, to their professional jobs before they became directors, this final proposal of the law, and it was resolved in the first reading that the problem and the director could return after the term of office of the director can return to his place of office, so he does not lose his place in the system and the person who will change him in the professional work in that part will be employed for a certain time. And not only that, they are clearly defined which employee profile could be the principal so I did not listen carefully to a fellow Habek who mentioned there and some who did not have a university degree study, who said that the expert council could have workers with medium professional training. I don't know about cases like that. If there are, they're not good and they need to be changed. Let us not forget that between the first reading of this law so far, we have also had the first reading or proposal of the law that we have tried to regulate and the professions that work in the social care system, and that we are also part of the overall reform of the social care system that I consider to be the fundamental law and the most important Social Care Act, so that they are part of a process that the Government implements through the Resent Ministry of Health and Social Care. And we should support them in this effort because this law concerns the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and as we know for ourselves that Croatia and the Constitution are defined as a social state that has made a commitment to care for those who, because of their state of unemployment, disease or something else, are unable to provide themselves with the means to live, in which case the state jumps in. For this reason, I would also like to highlight the principle, one of the eight fundamental principles of the social care system, which is the principle of justice which determines that a person exercising the rights of the social care system cannot be in a better position than a person who earns a living through work or on the basis of the rights arising from work. In addition to those who advocate the transparency of spending funds in the social care system, how those who distribute them to those who are intended to spend them. I will also point out the importance of local and regional self-government units and agree with the promoter that this is still a further process of decentralisation of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia. All those who are today calling for social care standards to be categorized and others forget that in 2001 when the decentralization started in the Republic of Croatia, no one asked when the House of Elderly and Powerless was built in Slavonski Brod, how many war injuries and destructions were suffered by this home and in what conditions the users of the House for Elderly and Powerless in Slavonski Brod were staying, and we did, we decentralized and we did not actually examine the state of things on the ground. I think that the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Croatian Government have a clear overview of the situation at this time that the funds used by the World Bank loan, which have been invested in improving the homes of social care, can also speak of it from the House of Children without adequate parental care in Slavonski Brod to see how much has been done over the past five years to improve the conditions of stay of children in that home, and how much has been done in the past five years to arrange and improve home conditions for older and powerless persons. I believe that the proposed establishment of a social care council at County level is to further strengthen the role of units of regional or regional self-government where they are very seriously transferred to their duties, social planning, to plan their own needs in social care in their own county. Likewise, all those who have said that this law places new obligations before the units of local self-government, without providing them with funds, are wrong because of the debate on popular cuisines, we already had some evidence that not all of them have to be established by law in order to find the problem locally and that the mayors of the municipalities would solve such matters, not just cities, large cities and cities of county headquarters. Therefore, as said at the first moment, centralisation at the county level in order to follow fiscal decentralisation and administrative decentralisation in the second stage, so it is up to us after this adoption of the law that from the ministry to the units of the regional and local self-government to bring our work and contribution to the implementation of this law will mark an improvement in the social care system in the Republic of Croatia. From the above, I will clearly support the adoption of the Social Care Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73183	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, the key point of this call for reform should be decentralisation and you have spoken of something in your debate. However, I wonder what the law really really and realistically brings. The secretary of state says the establishment of a county-level institute is the first phase of decentralisation, however, it does not say what the next stages of decentralisation are. I don't know, maybe because they're gone. Where they are, maybe you know more about it, so here's what I've given you the opportunity to answer me in that sense. By establishing 20 new institutions, I wouldn't call it decentralisation, I'd call it different. I'd say it's an increase in bureaucracy and administration that will only further complicate things on the ground. Instead of decentralisation that was so pompously announced we actually got one centralized system, one re-process re-centralization. Because what you colleagues would call the fact that so far the board of directors of social care institutions have appointed, and that today, from tomorrow on, from the date of entry into force of this law, it will no longer be possible. The Minister will do so in the future. Are you calling it the decentralisation process? What is it, centralised or in your opinion what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73185	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73186	My colleague Jerkovic, the two of us can't agree, and here's why. Now you yourself have said that the establishment of an office at the county level instead of existing centres for social care is a new administration. My fellow Members, I disagree with you for the most common reason, because today there are 80 welfare centres in the Republic of Croatia with 27 of their branches. If this is not a reorganisation and rationalisation, and we said and the secretary of state said so, stressed centralisation at the county level. Why are you opposed to the Minister's appointment of the Director of the Institute when he writes nicely that he is the founder, that the law found that the founder of the Republic of Croatia's institute is the same as the former Social Care Centre, the founder of the Republic of Croatia, and the appointment was at the level of the administrative council. My fellow Members, have you noticed here that in the Republic of Croatia, in the legislation of some things is still balanced, regardless of the management. Basic and secondary schools are founded by units of regional or regional self-government. But the school board that chooses, or chooses, the principal also has the prior consent of the minister responsible for education. Therefore, it will go to phase two when this empowerment of the local community, empowerment of the counties to better look at the whole issue in the counties, and the state does not run away from its responsibility. When assumptions are made for fiscal decentralisation, this whole large and responsible job will be transferred to the units of the regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73187	Thank you. It is time for the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am at the beginning to say that I am very pleased that, between the two readings of this law, a large part of the proposals of the associations and the National Alliance of Persons with Disabilities of the Ministry has accepted. The social care law is the most important law when it comes to persons with disabilities, and I will focus in my debate on the rights that concern a person with disabilities, given that this law is so extensive, and other colleagues have already spoken in detail about all other rights. First of all, the most important thing that seems to me to be in this law is that no right is abolished by anyone, and then there are neither persons with disabilities nor diminishes it. Even so, here for people with disabilities, some rights are being extended, or increased. In accordance with the Social Care Act, the rights of persons with disabilities are a personal disability, an allowance for assistance and care, the status of the parent-teacher status. So it's what parents do for people with disabilities. And the new right that we have here in this law is the right to an inclusive supplement that my colleague Bagarić spoke of so nicely. When it comes to personal disability, I am here stressing the satisfaction here that we have improved the text of the definition of personal disability. So something in the first reading, and something between these two readings, and I've noticed that I probably won't say it wrong, but here's one in Article 78(2) part of the sentence that I think maybe in the implementation of this law, it could create problems, and that's exactly where the rights of persons with disabilities are extended. So here I am, Mr. Secretary of State, and I wrote one amendment. I believe that you will consider this and if there are any opportunities to accept it, which is in Article 78, paragraph 2, when, excuse me. In paragraph 3, where income is said not to include certain, therefore, maintenance aid, housing costs assistance, etc. and pension up to the minimum pension. This was a good intention because so far, a person who had exercised the right to a personal disability could only exercise the right to a family pension. So no other kind of pension was considered. One and the other rights could not be realized. Now it's possible that they're not years anymore. It was before that personal disability could occur if the damage occurred 18 years ago, which is no longer the case. It was thought that some people would then be, people with disabilities would be in a discriminatory position. So that's what's good. However, since there is no defined amount of that minimum pension here, and we know that it is determined according to years of internship at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. For example, for 15 years of retirement, it is 840 and something kuna. And 20 grand a hundred and so on. I don't want to pick it up now. So here my proposal would be to add here in this item three of the following, which is that behind the word "peace" add more words: "fulfilled for 40 years of retirement." Therefore, it would be an amount of 2263 kuna that it now amounts to 40 years of retirement, so that this amount is at least not the reason for a person with disabilities to happen to her in order to reduce her personal disability, and we believe that these are not too much of an asset and yet allow a person with disabilities to be included in the community and given the opportunity to be equal with all other members of society. When it comes to the right of parents to, parents with disabilities, which is to exercise the right to parenting status, I would like to say that I commend all those changes that the Ministry has proposed, and they refer to more, when the family has more children with developmental difficulties, that both parents can achieve parent status, and also to include a single-parent family in achieving this status. I would also like to say that here I also support the amendment proposed by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, today when we discussed this on the Committee, I presented one case and the Committee accepted it, which is that there are children with developmental difficulties in the Republic of Croatia and persons with disabilities, which unfortunately parents do not care about for a variety of reasons, and that it is neither a disease, simple marriage is divorced, one of the parents does not care about their child, and the other is working or not able to do so. Such cases were very much in Croatia, and even before this law even entered the procedure, a number of parents addressed me and asked us to do something in this respect, and this is exactly the amendment proposed by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership to both a married or an extramarital parent, who lives in a community with a child, so who cares about him, to allow him to become a parent. In any case, these are extremely large shifts, and I would also like to say when it comes to the aid and care allowance, that here is the secretary of state and on this article, I think that he, in order to be acceptable, is that I believe that you will also consider this, which is that in Article 84(2), when it is said that the person who is located in an institution, a health institution or another institution, does not exercise the right to an allowance for assistance and care. I think it should be kept in mind that it does not exercise the right if it is settled permanently, or at least 15 days in one month, that only then should it not be entitled to this allowance. So in all other cases, so if it's some kind of disease that lasts 5, 6 or 15 days, that right shouldn't be abolished, because we know how important it is to people with disabilities. And finally, here, just please allow me another closing sentence. I would like to thank you on behalf of all the associations that have just focused on this parent status of the foster parent, because we know how important this is to them, the Angels Association from Split, which is thanking the State Secretary for putting their proposal into the final proposal of this law. I believe that, of course, by this inclusive addition, we will solve all the rights of persons with disabilities so that here we no longer, which is what we have at the moment, we would not be scattered into a personal disability, to an aid and care allowance, etc., but that an inclusive supplement as one quality solution would be to the general satisfaction of all those who will exercise the right to this supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73189	Thank you. And we have one notice. The session of the Environment Protection Committee will be held today at the Chamber of Stjepan Radić at 5:00. That's what they wrote. We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, the distinguished representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the first part of my debate, I will look back at those parts of this law that I consider positive. It is positive that this law defines some concepts that have not been regulated so far, such as The notion of a homeless person is also an important space dedicated to social services, which can be interpreted as an incentive to develop a network of social services, especially those outside the institutional character. Users also got a more active role, they got the option of choosing services, information, privacy protection, and more attention is given to social inclusion of users. It is also good to prescribe a methodology for calculating social services prices, of course, if this will ultimately mean that this methodology will apply to all public funding beneficiaries. The law provides for major changes in the current reorganisation of the system, in particular through the establishment of the Department of Social Care, at the level of the county, and such a change is not justified, nor previously discussed within the system itself, and with the participation of all stakeholders. I find it unacceptable to legislate changes in which the objectives, costs and outcomes are unclear. The name of the Department of Social Care is also a foreign tradition so far, so I think the better name would be the County Centre for Social Care or the County Centre for Social Work. The envisaged reorganisation of the system will not contribute to decentralisation of the system and its roots in the local community for the time being. The law also provides for no significant changes in the level of monetary rights, an opportunity has been missed and an opportunity to consider and change the current inefficient distribution of competences for social care and social affairs between the three ministries and to consider the general use of the patronising term of social care. Now I'm going to look specifically at some of the articles that I think may have been more clearly defined. Article 30 which speaks of social care users paragraph 2. 2. uses the term child and younger person, a younger adult with behavioural disorders. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has brought together a document that also included the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which regulates that this concept is no longer used at national level, but the concept of child and youth behavior, and that the concepts of risky behaviour, behavioral difficulties and behaviours that violate legal norms can be specifically used in the welfare system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. An unemployed person shall have the right to assist in maintenance if he fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 50 of this Act and if his last working relationship has not ceased on a voluntary, contractual or distorted basis unless the work relationship has been terminated for a year or if, after the employment relationship has ceased, incompetence for work. This part is discriminatory because it punishes persons who have broken up the last working relationship by agreement before they have even entered the conditions for seeking support. Therefore, this whole section should be deleted because of the reasons why the person is, for example, a person. a contractual or arbitrary working relationship may be fully justified. Also, what does it mean that a person is guilty of his behavior by losing his last job? So then the Social Care Center will check whether she's guilty or not and on that basis make a decision on whether or not she can get help. The basic condition for obtaining maintenance aid should be that the person has no income, including the property censorship, and not how he lost his previous job. In Article 77 which regulates personal disability, it is ethically questionable that the article states that the existence of a need for inclusion in everyday life is prescribed by the Minister’s Regulation. Namely, this is about fundamental human rights that should be guaranteed to everyone, not subject to the minister's judgment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the What I find unacceptable is the placing of adoptions within the framework of the work of family centres, i.e. it is completely unclear which part of the adoption business would be transferred to the jurisdiction of family centres other than the education of adoptors. Just putting the concept of adoption between words of child rearing, adoption and prevention of addiction leads to confusing meanings. In view of the extreme extent of alternative social care for children, it is necessary that, with regard to the implementation of the measure itself, the evaluation and testing of adopters and children, the institution remains in charge until various forms of support, before and after the implementation of the measures to protect the family is carried out by the family centre. In the same paragraph, it is unclear and too narrow a determination to include in everyday life after a long stay in the educational institution. Also, there is a vague provision for intermediation prior to the contractual divorce process, and a family mediation is later cited separately although it is the same skill and procedure applicable in various family conflicts. Finally, I would say that solutions have been taken for this law from other countries that do not comply with domestic conditions, does not bring quality improvements, does not raise the quality of services to social care centres other than the existing obligation to add some new obligations, not taking into account that, for years in social care centres, there has been a large shortage of professional workers. I will give an example only of the Centre for Social Care Sibenik, which has been working for 3 years with a lack of 12 professional workers. It maintains centralization, institutional care, and I think a completely different concept is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73191	Thank you. And as last in an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I will try to explain why this law is not good in a couple of comparisons of what I've been able to read and what I understand. So here I would first of all why this is not a good law, ask the Secretary of State to try to explain this simple sentence which stands at the end of this law and says this: "The implementation of the proposed law will not require additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia because the existing funds will be more rationally deployed." What's he saying? It says we had money, but we didn't know how to rule the old law with them, so now we're going to do it a little bit more rationally. Or, this kind of change, and there's a change in this law, it won't require any additional funding. It means we won't have any intention of carrying them out. This way, when a law written for 7 years, which should solve something very important, which is social care, when it is said that there will be no additional funds because the existing funds will be more rationally deployed, it only speaks of a non-serious approach when it comes to social care. That's number one. Number two, somewhere there's a lot of talk and it's said whether it's decentralisation or centralization is additional. So in the old law, if I remember correctly, it is prescribed that the state of that unit of local and regional self-government is obliged to provide means to carry out social care activities in a way that clearly does not define the powers and obligations of those funds. It's now in this law that it's made quite unclear. So I'll tell you why. For example, it is proposed that both counties and local units finance housing aid costs where no criteria are laid down or that what is to be done and what part of the housing costs will be paid by local self-government units, and what will be paid by the counties. I think it'd be okay if when it's already been so specific that you say the county will pay for electricity and water, and the local self-government units don't know what's left. It is also proposed that local self-government units and units finance housing aid costs in accordance with the government's decision, which, of course, we will get to establish a minimum financial standard for housing. I think it's going to be quite difficult to establish that minimum standard since the cost of housing from the local self-government unit to the local self-government units differ considerably so that this normisation, I don't know how it's going to be done and it's going to be feasible and it's going to be right. Large cities and cities of local unit headquarters are further under the obligation to provide in their budgets funds for the establishment and operation of folk kitchens. So far it has been financed exclusively as a service of soup kitchen and so far it has worked properly. Why now the additional establishment of the soup kitchen is quite unclear. And now we're different here I'd say colleague Bagarić you and I because you claim that the facility for the soup kitchen is good. Look, I don't agree with the law saying that we should base the kitchen facility. That means we don't have any hope of getting any better, I'm against any soup kitchen, not yet establishing them in this way that it's legal here to be an institution, to have a board of directors, I guess that's how it should be. The soup kitchen needs to be avoided, and that's where we differ, the difference between you and me. Now I'd like to say something individually, Mr. Secretary of State, so try to see if that can change or not. In Article 8(4), you say that the social care council proposes to bring, I apologize, the social plan. But wouldn't it be normal for such a plan, of course, to be adopted by the local and regional self-government units on a proposal for advice, not to give advice independently from units of local self-government or from other bodies to adopt such an important act. I don't think that's good and that that decentralisation when you're talking, or that's where the authorities aren't being decentralised in a way that can make decisions like that, but some kind of advice that's completely independent of other bodies makes such an important plan. Of course, as I said, large cities and headquarters of local self-government are required to provide in their budget funds for the establishment and operation of folk cuisines. The above provision imposes a new obligation on local self-government without the means being secured and thus it is apparent that this decentralisation only comes down to trying to extract money from the local self-government unit and the regional self-government and that income sources for such transactions are not imposed anywhere. Because this Article 14 paragraph 4 where it is said, you see, it seems to me that, in spite of Article 93 of that law, it states that local self-government is required to provide only food services in the kitchens, and now the question is, these two articles are somehow in collapsing, why is that, is it because they were not careful when it was discussed, so such things have entered into this Law. And now to look back a little bit on what has already been said here, in Article 179, paragraph 3 states a provision under which a unit of regional and regional self-government has founding rights over a family center along with a family ministry. Great, that's what you can do. But you see these kinds of decentralisations that only formally stand in the law do not satisfy the units of local self-government and I believe that no single unit of regional and regional self-government will accept the provision of this article because, in such a way, the unit of local self-government only imposes a possible obligation because, as co-founder, it may and must be responsible for any loss in business, it is necessary to provide space for the work of such an institution but its founding rights cannot be used even in the appointment of a director. Because there you have stated that somehow it can be decided on by the director, but in Article 212 paragraph 3, the director specifically writes so appointed minister. Of course, the local self-government unit can't form one such institution itself. There are some things that are not good in this law, and therefore that law would not be acceptable. Telling the truth that 70 places is enough to establish a home for the elderly and the powerless I don't know how you got to that number. It's polite to have 70 people in one home who, of course, will have a director and a council and I don't know what, there's 1,000 meters away they have to be. I don't know how they got to 70, why not 50? So to make it even more comfortable, even better, even nicer, but those 70, I believe so they told me it wasn't worth it and it won't be possible to open new homes for older and powerless because it won't be worth it. Somewhere the economists calculated it was about 150. What about the existing ones who have 450 like we have in Rijeka, which is with the new construction of such homes because you noticed well with several older people in one city of Rijeka which is the densest populated city per square. Somewhere 44 square miles has 150 thousand inhabitants. We have a home that has 450 users of this home, how to build new ones, in the area of the city of Rijeka there are more places, but when we make another home of 70 then we'll have to build other homes in some other units of local self-government. It is obvious that such a way of accessing the future building of homes for the powerless and the elderly is not good. And what's always good to notice is. You see in this Act is about establishing a home of social care, so it's about the board of directors, the terms of the director, the contract of directors, the deputy director, the acting director, on one five pages, but when it comes to something that's in my opinion, which is the essence of this law is the quality and standards of the quality of social services that we know legally what we need to have in our homes, then that's what it says will be determined by the Minister's rule. So the scale of things is not solved, and marginal things are solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73193	Thank you very much. And finally, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73194	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here and again I thank you for today's debate during which the debate is very much on the new proposal and not only the Social Care Act but on the whole part where the direction is aimed at further development of the social care system, but also during the debate a number of issues appeared, so I will try to clarify some things. First, the weekend foster care that was mentioned here is an absolutely acceptable category, but it is not resolved by this law, this law only defines who is in charge... fostering is already a special law, called the Household Law, which will be amended and complemented by this law, and will come before this home so that as one of the categories of what we are preparing, it is fostering itself, specialized foster care, it is foster care that should be caught and children with difficulties. [[You don't understand.]] So either way, the form of a foster home weekend or some of those other forms are acceptable and I think we're also going to have a quality discussion. As far as the logo is concerned, there's something I need to mention. There were four laws on professional activities in front of this House. I'm clearly standing because I also have paper documents to prove that when we started to regulate the waist, those four professions we had direct agreements with the profession, with associations that represent these professions. However, I should also point out a certain problem. It is true that other than social workers and social educators, for whom nothing is disputed, basic activity in the welfare system is still unregulated in the system of social care, there are logos and educational rehabilitators, former defecologists. The problem that has arisen here is very large, I will try to be brief, and that is that they are listed in the Law on Higher Science as professional workers in the system of education and that the Association of Educational Rehabilitators have declared that they want to stay, so their parent portfolio would be a portfolio of education. This is what we will have certain changes in the preparation of the final proposal. As far as the logos themselves are concerned, at this point in time, as far as I'm concerned, the Croatian Logopeda Association has a large debate within the association because a good part of the members that 70% of the healthcare system would rather be that the logos be health workers, while a number of them consider to be in the welfare system. We will wait for their decision before submitting a proposal to this House of Commons for final reading and respect the absolute decision of the profession in that part. And I'm glad that it was a question because we could clarify something that might also be released sometimes because of the misunderstanding in the wrong way in public. As far as standardizing procedures are concerned, I agree. We mentioned when we represented the reform that this reform is complete, so it's not only going into cost rationalization but also going into structural changes that you've talked about here today, but that it's going into quality change. It means that I need to bring in what I like to say sometimes, so it tells me that I am identifying health care and social welfare, but that's what the blue book of services in social care means that there are standards, standards, that one person can receive several services, another person can receive one service, depending on what persons need. That standardisation is being prepared and it is a very good thing to mention it here. As for the control and application of social welfare rights, it exists today and will strengthen it. So, apart from the principle of fairness that the minister was then quoted in his opening statement, we have regular controls so within the social care system and regular and audit reports. We do not speak on purpose because it is the same red cloth in public, as soon as someone mentions the word revision immediately wants to be warned in one other direction, there should be a clear and loud word here. It is a process that is being handled in the social care system and will be regularly checked for new circumstances, but it is a burden of these new circumstances I will say unfortunately because it burdens very largely our professional workers in the system. But on the other hand, when we look at our users, it is clear that it must be a burden of the system, not a burden of the user. I can tell you that monthly, let's use this layman's name, catch a number of people who have either taken on a fee they had no right to, then there are short procedures, they make up for it, so they're returning funds, and that's something I can say with pride that the ministry works very well. We're going to meet if it's about people in special groups when they can't get the money that they've got all the wrong way back and we're also prolonging those returns to them, but in any case we insist that the control there must be strong. I fully agree that the structure of the population dictates a kind of professional worker. Well, that's our intention. When we went and we suggested, let's say here I'm glad to hear from that county because at the end of the day, Međimurje County won't even experience a major change and organisation of the structure, i.e. the center for social care of Čakovec who has two branches of Prelog and I think Kotoriba if I'm not mistaken, the Centre will have a social care office with Prelog and Centre. But what will need to be strengthened and we talk about it all the time and there was in Čakovec about it, it will need to strengthen exactly what part of it means, except in the reform that everything is said to be possible in one place, it will need to strengthen professional work and it will need to be provided with one number of professional workers. It will appear, in addition to the fact that we want to raise the awareness that this job that is extremely responsible and difficult for people, to be tempting, means that people also target young people in these jobs. So we have to give rise to that profession, that's number one, and I'm sure we'll make it possible by means of employment to the missing piece. I can say that at this point in Croatia there are a lot of professionals in the centres of different profiles. But I'll go back a little bit to this one, you should say psychologists, for example, who also participate in the social system, regardless of what is regulated they don't have their own, let's call it that, activity because they're co-workers in both the social care system and the health care system and the education system. So they're not professional workers anywhere, they're professional associates everywhere. So the question is, and with them there is a conversation to see what they would do and how they would see their future. The name of a clinical psychologist only determines that he works in health care, but does not mean that he is a health worker but is unfortunately an associate in health care. Then we've got this 15-year-old question, so I'd like to explain it a little bit. If one article and another exception were to be combined, then it should be said this way: the right to assistance for maintenance does not have a single or family member if, in the first article, paragraph 5 is capable or partly capable of work, and is not properly registered in the record of persons unemployed, then there is no right. Then we said in the second article that the fact that he has no right does not apply to children from 5 to 26 years of age if they go to school regularly, I explained a little, which actually means they have the right to become adult. So we don't want to endanger these children at all, but that's exactly what this double negative, legal norm, and sometimes it's a little hard for me to read. And what should be said, children in general, means children aged 15 to 18 belong unless they have parental concerns, means that if they themselves should exercise the right to restraint fall under a completely different category. It's a category of general child care without parental care. So this is child support. I cannot answer when the ministry will be or defenders of intergenerational solidarity will establish a family centre in Čakovec. Talks are ongoing. The Ministry of Health is supporting the project. At this point I know that the establishment is being prepared in Osijek-Baranja County in Osijek when we can. Maybe it'll be very soon. But responsiblely I can't give you the exact time when it will be. As far as adoption is concerned, he's just listed here. However, the Family Law defines responsibility because the adoption of categories is defined in the Family Law, and we only frame it as one of the activities of family centres and the Department of Social Care in this law. As far as costing change is concerned, I can only say it because I was saying it at meetings whenever we talked about where the funds could be found. So if we go into the deinstitutionalisation system, then we need to make it clear and loud as this may sound strange, but one child we give to the foster family is five times cheaper. Everything the state gives for this rather than a child located in an institution, so I will give you information that 1955 children were spent in 2009 with 51.8 million kunas in foster families. And for 3700 children, it means less than twice 469 million kunas in welfare institutions. So our whole process of deinstitutionalization, of fostering, of moving children into these foster families actually releases some of the funds. Not all of them, not all of them, because these institutions will remain as professional help to foster families. And there is, therefore, this transformation of the institution that we talked about in our master plan, deinstitutionalization. But that's how we found some places to stay from now on. But we found extra resources to do something about these changes, why we say that the cost of costing is not needed, we didn't have to ask for additional funds. As far as local and regional self-government units are concerned, we haven't extended any of the rights they've had so far. That's why I'm saying in particular why we called the Department of Social Welfare County a non-conventional institution. Not to get the impression it's a county facility right now. No, she remains a state institution at this stage. So the costs go from what the state budget would tell me. And when conditions are met, when funds are secured to surrender to the county then they become county institutions and become independent in funding. There have been several amendments proposed here today, and I think we're going to discuss these amendments tomorrow that are absolutely acceptable. Because it's just that some of these things might be more articulating than what we've made in our proposal. So I think tomorrow during the amendment debate we'll be able to add some things like, for example, I've already listed those thousand unfortunate meters. Because what's the point? The aim of deinstitutionalisation was not to create some distance. When we talk about deinstitutionalisation and clearly we need to go in that direction to reduce the number of users in the institution. I'll repeat it for the people who invested their resources. For 10 years safe is a transition period for existing state or private institutions. So that's what you should say. But the one who's going to start tomorrow, I'm not saying. He may have a facility with seven hundred people, but in one location, one facility can't go beyond 70. Why are we saying that? Because we're also going to the other part of the service that wasn't mentioned here today, which is that those who will have people on the board are twenty-four hours. So in these homes for old and powerless, they will also need to provide day and half-day stays for people who especially in rural areas want to stay in their surroundings but who need our help. So, they need to be fed at the end of the day by what they call probably housewives and everything else. Therefore, this part of deinstitutionalisation is quite clear and I do not believe that it should create such a problem in that part of the standard. What I'd say might have been a little vague. I know there's a lot of data. But in this law, we do not cite children with behavioral disorders but with behavioral problems. So the absolute ministry in its proposal and the government in its proposal used a terminology which, by all conventions, according to all... as well as modern as this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73195	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73196	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Social Welfare Act. This was a second reading, P.Z.E. No. 746. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the representative Ljubica Lukačić, the Club of HNS and HSU representatives and the representative of Silvano Hrelja. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the parliamentary working bodies and representatives of Ljubica Lukacic, and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments made by representatives of Silvan Hrelje, and of the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and HSU. It is an amendment of the representatives, the club of representatives, the amendment one to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73197	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73198	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 2 to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73199	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73200	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73201	The amendment is not accepted, because the term used in the terms in this text is consistent with the terms used in other laws, such as the Foreign Law, where subsidiary protection is mentioned, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73202	Mr. Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73203	I can understand the state secretary's explanation, but I still think the proposed amendment is more relevant to the content of this article, so I will request a vote for principle reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73204	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73205	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73206	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 5, to Article 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73207	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment incorrectly cited an article of the law to which the amendment should apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73208	This is Article 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73209	And here it says to me 51, but 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73210	Yeah, it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73211	Then we'll say that the amendment is to Article 52. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Hrella.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73212	I think that, there was a mistake, and I think the amendment is very good quality, and I'm very sorry that Mr. Secretary of State didn't accept it because he didn't notice it, because it's a more precise statement, because there were two laws here, the Pension Insurance and Social Care Act, where, where this is a better nomotechnical statement. I think he could accept that with an apology for this slip. I'm asking for a vote if I don't have any other choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73213	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73214	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73215	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 7 to Article 179
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73216	The amendment cannot be accepted, as the amendment promoter has not taken into account only one type of institution which is the founder and ownership rights at the state level, and has not taken into account that, under this and the preceding article, it states that this is about homes for older and powerless, and rehabilitation centres, which are the founding rights and ownership of the unit of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73217	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73218	Right, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73219	Amendment 7 has been withdrawn to Article 179. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73220	Amendment 8 to Article 219 may be accepted in part, so it is accepted that instead of 70 accommodation facilities there will be 100 places per location and 2nd paragraph 2 of the proposed item is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73221	Mr. Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73222	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73223	He is a consensual representative of the motionors and in the text as read by the State Secretary. Thank you. We are going to the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU, or the representative of Silvano Hrelja has proposed Amendment 1 to Article 2. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73224	The amendment shall be accepted in part. So the first part in point 2 is not accepted to delete the rope of the family, because the existing text is exactly the opposite of it determining the single. In point 12, it is accepted, instead of an additional increase. In point 18, it is not accepted, because the meaning of the instructions is then lost, if a solution is to be written for each leaflet. Point 19 is accepted, therefore, behind the words of the objectives is added to the purpose of overcoming adverse living conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73225	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73226	Consent with partial acceptance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73227	Thank you. This amendment was partially accepted in the text as explained by Mr. Secretary of State. Amendment 2 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73228	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73229	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 3 to Article 6
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73230	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73231	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73232	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73233	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73234	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73235	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73236	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73237	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73238	The amendment is not accepted, because it is already under discussion... That, therefore, the existing establishment of family centres in the country is not able to take over the above-mentioned tasks provided for in this amendment,... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] on the issue of providing social care services, and for this reason as a proposal we insist that the text remains existing in the law. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73239	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73240	I can understand that the intensity of this amendment is understood and that no conditions have been created. I would prefer that this article be accepted conditionally, but if we don't bother with the procedure, I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73241	This amendment 8 to Article 98 is withdrawn. I Amendment 9 to Article 99.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73242	It is also not accepted for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73243	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73244	The same procedure, so I'm glad that the intensity of the amendment has been understood, so let's not be complicated, I'm going to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73245	Thank you. And this amendment 9 to Article 99 has been withdrawn. I am therefore voting on the final proposal of the Social Care Act. Please engage and vote on the law, along with the amendments adopted. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 19 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73246	Moving to point 9. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 748. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDSSB Representatives' Club and the HDZ Representatives' Club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stanko Janic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73247	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The existing Law on areas of special state care was adopted in July 2008. The main purpose of this law is to promote demographic and economic progress in the area of special state concern. The greatest and best results of this law are recorded right in housing. Since 2000, 35320 families of exiles, returnees, refugees in the area of special state care have been taken care of. 21647 to rent houses and apartments in state property, and 13673 to donate construction material, to build or rebuild family houses. From this point on, 4687 houses and apartments were donated to Croatian defenders, the Croatian Defence Council and the Croatian Army under this law, i.e. earlier regulations of 2005 and 2007, and 1085 houses or dwellings of residential care users were sold. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care is one of the groups of laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act as well as part of the criteria for closing Chapter 23. – Justice and fundamental rights of negotiations with the European Union. For these reasons, it has been proposed to adopt an emergency procedure, as this distinguished Croatian Parliament has accepted. The basic issues that are regulated by these amendments and by supplementing the law can be classified into five groups. First, the proposed amendments and additions to this law are in line with their procedural rules with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The procedure for submission of applications for housing has been arranged, and the procedural rules that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act have been laid down, among other things, as a newspaper of the list of championships which clearly determine the order by which these requirements will be settled according to the criteria, the points prescribed by this law and which will be published on 31 January of the current year for all regulated requirements. The ministry is a first-degree body whose solution will be a possible complaint to a commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is governed by Articles 7 and 8 of these amendments and by the addition of the laws. Second, more precisely, the conditions that users have to fulfil in order to exercise the right to housing, and in addition, Articles 4 and 5, a new group of users who can exercise the right to care, to donate a family home or a state-owned apartment, a user who receives on the use of real estate and emigrates from the same group to return to ownership of the owner, and gets another property for use. These amendments shall equalise those users with those users who have continued to reside in state-owned real estate and who have thus acquired the right to donate. The change relates to property exclusively in smaller towns and rural areas of less infrastructure equipment and is excluded from real estate in cities in areas of special state care. Issues and conditions have also been addressed, allowing for the right to provide housing for persons entitled under the Law on Reconstruction, as members of the family, and who have estranged a habitable housing facility after 1991. There is also a question of housing in the state house or apartment when special... like... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the user and the like, as well as that the property concerned is the donation and sale of co-ownership of all members of the family of home care users, because in practice so far there has been a double interpretation of that and in some way of playing such rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It allowed the return of funds to Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead defenders, who spent the same amount for the purpose of housing the purchase of a family home owned by the State in the field of special care and the conditions for the exercise of that right. Since 2005, when the government adopted a donation regulation and defenders, and later this law, all defenders in the areas of special state care have acquired the right to donate state houses and dwellings in which they are housed under this law. To date, 4000 and 687 defenders and their families have been donated to this day. A number of defenders by 169, he bought apartments before those regulations and is now allowing them to recover the funds. All families who have failed to apply for renewal can do so now under this law. At the same time, the exceptional possibility of housing outside the area of special state concern was arranged by the award of construction material as an exceptional possibility of temporary housing of users in special situations in areas of special state care. The third group of issues covered by these amendments and by the amendments to the law concerns the determination in which cases users lose the right to housing. In this way, cases recorded in practice will be avoided in which users reject the offered properties for unwarranted reasons and delay the procedure both for their housing care and for the other users who are on the list primarily below their number. Fourthly, further very important is the issue of unauthorized private property investments to resolve relations between owners and temporary users, and to end judicial proceedings under court rulings. This is one issue also related to the closure of Chapter 23 of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. The proposed amendments to the law will compensate the ministry for the amount to the amount of funds necessary to bring a residential facility into a state suitable for life, stay and use, according to the Rehabilitation Act. In the event that the temporary user is exercising the right to provide housing on the burden of the state budget, it is carried out... the funds invested in the occupied assets and their housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The issue of investment in business facilities is particularly regulated. Finally, individual issues of housing that have proved to be questionable in the application of the law are further regulated, for example, as an intrusive and intrinsic residential building, a residential area on which housing rights are exercised, and later the right to purchase or donate, and so on. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished representatives in the short presentation, I have presented all the important parts of the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on the area of special state care, and I hope that through the debate it will be agreed that this bill be adopted by an urgent procedure at this session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73248	Thank you very much to the Honorable Secretary of State for the opening clarifications. Do the representatives of the board have a need? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. We received our first application from the National Minority Club and our distinguished colleague, Danes Soy, on behalf of this club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73249	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In terms of both law and reasoning, I would like to stress a few moments. First of all, since I am living in the area of special state care and I have no problem returning the film back 10, 15 years and having the picture that was then, and the picture now, so I must express both satisfaction and gratitude to all the governments and all the competent ones who have made a great effort to restore it, because from this explanation it is evident that only as far as housing units are concerned has been rehabilitated, built and built over 35 thousand and 300, and how much further I would not want to repeat from the text of the reasoning. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think that for every commendation, even if I believe that the amendments to the law when it came to the adoption of that donation regulation were immediately covered by that category of defenders who had invested certain funds before the entry into force of that regulation, we were tasked with resolving their housing issue and after the donation of a certain number of defenders, we quite rightly caused the dissatisfaction of that part. I think this law is making it right now, which is really about time. I would, perhaps, also refer to the text of the law itself, in Article 5 and in the article itself, to Article 10b and paragraph 2 which refers to a fixed period of return of 3 years. I don't know what that's justified by, why it's necessary for three years, that deadline for me could be shorter, maybe a year possibly, two years at the most. Then we also have in Article 6 which is also a little unclear to me, Article 6 there, point 15, where the interested party is talking about when they lose the right to care, if they reject the offered house twice without grounds, or a solution. Well, I think it should be possible only once. Furthermore, I would like to point out this: knowing the first opportunities in Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, I do not think that this kind of housing building and solving these problems at the same time has accompanied the need to address the communal infrastructure problems on the ground as well as the building of social standards facilities and, in part, sacral objects. I can and will support it with several examples, simply for the reason that in the future, the Ministry, namely the Republic of Croatia, will have in mind because otherwise in these areas in these new streets, new houses built if no infrastructure is created as some basis for economic development and other facilities of the social standard for young people will not be retained. And this could be supported by the following data: comparing data from Osijek-Baranja County, and I think Vukovar-Srijemska is in the same if not in an even more complex situation, examples of healthy, drinking water in the Osijek-Baranja County area, according to data from a year ago drinking 40% of the population while the same percentage in Split-Dalmatia County is 87%. And the more pronounced difference is that we do not now take Zagreb in other areas than Pula, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Međimurje etc. Or other information, let's say that in the area, I can say Osijek-Baranja or our county, only 11% of the household is connected to the sewer system, and that percentage is, for example, when combined with Split-Dalmatia over 34%. Which means three times better, or better quality, that's settled. I could still get some information here about the town of Vukovar. In view of the fact that in the pre-war period in the former state, the city was developed in various forms, from economic to employment, etc., almost every year, somewhere among the first 3.4 was by development in the former state, absolutely and in Croatia, of 112, 113 municipalities, as many as there were then or in the former state of 500 municipalities. Or another very interesting example I have to point out here, and that's a question of how to illustrate the situation one small place, a village in Slavonia, probably a lot of you are familiar with it, maybe you've been there, Laslovo. Laslovo is like this to me, one Vukovar in small, given the injuries, what happened there. And you've built 95% of housing, new houses, nice streets, but these Laslova locals don't have that at the same time what I'm saying isn't accompanied by some streets they don't have, they're not paved roads, they don't have hunters or firefighters cultured. The home of culture is made, used, but not finished. The church has been adaptable for seven, eight years. It's been built up to half. Therefore, these are examples, to express examples where it is not enough so far, I do not doubt that objectively, it could not be invested in that infrastructure and I think in the future I appeal that it should be tried in a certain way to correct it. Because when we look at those investments that we are considering annually about our islands moving from one billion to two billion, and we look at those specific facilities of an extremely high social and communal standard from these teaching-sports halls to closed pools, etc., which I absolutely support and I think is necessary, then we still have to think a little bit of a difference in these various forms of standards. I have to stress it like this. And I have pointed out twice here, especially when it comes to Baranja, that certain criteria we apply to the island might apply to Baranja, given that the rest of Croatia and there can only be reached by plane and boat. So there are certain difficulties and logic in that too. And to finish my short exposure, I want to point out at the end of the next moment: people, that is, generations between 40 and 50, in the '90s and '91s. In a certain way, years have brought a great burden of war from the area. They've been close to 70 years now. And those who were 20 to 30 at the time are about 40 and 50. Therefore, I draw the conclusion that they have indeed earned in this sense in which I have spoken not only a certain personal but also a social standard, because finally as our people say, both in Rijeka and in Međimurje and in Slavonia and Baranja, there is only one life. And so these people think they deserve in that sense maybe a little more attention. We absolutely support it as a club and I personally adopt this law in the hope that the rest of the problem will be resolved, and for us in particular the problem and the wasteland of what we are trying to do these days and now we are trying to make a step in order to solve the fate of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73250	Thank you very much. Next is the SDSS club and distinguished colleague Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73251	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State with your colleague, colleague and colleague. There is no discussion of the laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on areas of special state concern, therefore one extremely important legal text and looking geographically, therefore spatially, and looking at certain populational, or social categories, looking at a particular legal issue that still needs to be regulated in some way by this legal text. So, we also fully respect the efforts made by ministry people as proposings to introduce the institute through these amendments and to supplement the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and thus gain quality in solving all these unfinished things and the effort to really do in the field what has been drawn in terms of the restoration of housing, etc., etc. Of course, many of these things are limited by a number of factors. Not only by a human factor, but not by a political factor, there's a limit on money that I wouldn't be talking about right now. So, the revision of this law through these five institutes, which in the opening statement is, therefore, the alignment with the Administrative Procedure Act, the definition of the list, the applicant's championship, which I think is a good thing, that it was a matter that was at some point a narrow throat to address certain requirements. Then defining the category of residential and inhabitable housing, the same thing that had to be better solved. Also, the right to donate to users the basis of other laws is a thing that probably according to the applicant's assessment was a matter to be arranged. So these are improvements to the basic legal text that we agree with and which we hold to be the result of the experience, the Ministry itself from the field in solving certain cases, and we expect that it will rightly solve the passing and many narrow throats in solving this problem that we are talking about. However, I will now do one analysis of the overall legal text here because I think now is an opportunity to say our assessment of the overall text of the area or legislation regulated by the area of special state concern. Why do I say that? Because the title of the Law states that this law defines incentive measures for reconstruction and development, encouraging measures are defined to achieve a more uniform development, demographic economic development, completion of the reconstruction programme, return of the pre-war population. These are some of the objectives that we have set for ourselves in the basic text. And now the question is whether we've been doing this with these changes and the concept that I've been talking about right now through these five institutes and we've achieved it. It's our assessment that we haven't reached the bottom of the deep end and I've solved the law to the end. The objective was certainly good, however, the content of the Law to these declared objectives, according to our assessment, corresponds. If, in addition, the following data are provided, if the structure of the Law itself is seen and it is analysed that the general provisions are contained in six articles, that the measures of demographic renewal are, therefore, the measures of housing are covered in 21 articles, tax relief through four articles of environmental protection, two articles, etc., then we see that the greatest accent is put on precisely the measures of demographic renewal and therefore it is concluded that this is a kind of thing, so let me not be taken for harm if I qualify it, but that it is a housing regulation, and that it is not about the system law that needs to come out of which some concrete sublaw acts are to come out of later. If we understand areas of special state concern by the very title of our own and by the social objectives that this implies, then I need to point out a few things. First, these areas are characterized by economic lagging and social devastation, which means that the Law to be adopted should respond to such challenges. And yet there is no content in the Law on the economic development of these areas. We therefore need, in particular, a special chapter on the economic period of the area of special state care. The second thing, most of the content in the Law refers to housing, so it turns out that the desired objectives of this Law are mostly reduced to a personal question. I don't think the law itself is allowed. The law itself, which is called this, must not be reduced to this purpose alone. The third thing, living care opens up a series of variants, regardless of what is clear that for such broad rights and for the achievement of these variants offered here as a possibility, there will be no financial or budgetary resources for a long time. The settlement is strongly stimulated and solutions are proposed which will facilitate this, and the return population has no treatment, and the conditions for return and the possibility of survival on the ground according to areas of special state care law almost here do not even speak. Former tenant rights holders are a category that deserves a clearer treatment for us. Although some other categories are specifically defined, particularly stimulated, about former tenants of household law here were not nearly a word, I think there should be a particular article that would regulate this problem. This is about our assessment of the most damaged category of the population and we have the impression that they have almost the same treatment as the settlers do. And the last return process is a matter of substance and substance of the field of special state concern, so assumptions and procedures must be incorporated into the Law itself on areas of special state care. And to figure this thing out. So we expect and we think that behind this order is that we will also pass the Law on assisted areas. I just said that out of intent not to criticise everything that is wrong but to try to put an emphasis on things that need to be better arranged so that the Law on assisted areas simply solves it, installs and below this problem draws the line because finally the time has come for this thing. Another thing I want to talk about is that there are two restrictions in the law itself, on the consumption of rights under the Law for certain categories. The first restriction is previous property, meaning the basic limit for all who have acquired something in the meantime, and even inherited it is precisely that previous property. Amendments to the Law are passed, the problem of the holders of the deprived tenants is treated as a humanitarian problem and is addressed as a social measure, not as a problem of the rights and obligations of the holder as a specific problem and a specific priority. The funds defined for the implementation of this programme in the Law itself are also said to be dependent on the possibility of budgeting. The resources available will depend on the resources available in the state budget each year, which may be and may not be, we have not defined them in particular. If they do not have to be then there is some conclusion that from the point of view of the population that we are thinking about right now, simply that the return and some other things related to the fact of return will put an end to the fact that we do not have a clear financial means, i.e. our obligation in law, in order to ensure in the budgets of the coming years clear means for the completion of this job and this process that we have not completed. The third thing I would say is, in a nomotechnical sense, I would suggest to the Proposer that, behind Article 12b and paragraph 8 we propose that an entry or definition be made of one item which should be read: exceptionally from the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, when the person who has initiated the procedure or is in charge of the administrative dispute for the exercise of the right to housing is abroad, this person is not obliged to designate the authority to receive letters with residence in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? I speak for practical reasons because according to Article 85(6). The law on administrative procedure of delivery to the authorising officer for receipt of letters shall be deemed to have been delivered to the party itself. So, the deadlines that are too inclusive and the appeal period of 15 days begins, and within that appeal period, the written authority from Croatia should inform the applicant of the application for housing somewhere outside Croatia, it may also be located on another continent. The applicant must find an expert legal person to make a complaint to him and the applicant must send the complaint by mail and it all comes out of the box for 15 days. Therefore, given this short time limit for the appeal and the fact that it must go through the authority, it is obvious that a large number of applicants will be late with that deadline, they will break through that deadline and expect that in practice we will face a large number of claims for recovery in the past, which will, of course, make it difficult for applicants to continue the whole process and, of course, collect the whole thing. We therefore propose to exempt ourselves, to exclude the obligation to communicate letters through the power of attorney, and therefore there is greater experience in previous solutions. An exception to such an obligation of the Administrative Procedure Act was proposed by the Government in its own time when it was also concerned with the exercise of pension insurance rights to insurance companies, future insurance companies located abroad. At that time, the Government recommended that those categories should not be subject to such a provision on the authority for receipt of letters. We don't see the reasons, and we think it would be very useful for an exception like this to be incorporated into this law, so that we make things easier for people who already have such a problem, or we don't complicate it with this prescribed form. So we expect these views to be discussed by the proposings and we expect these suggestions to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73252	It is now up to the Croatian Peasant Party club and distinguished colleague Zdravko Kelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73253	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The Law on Special State Care was adopted on 15 July 2008 in order to achieve the more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, the promotion of demographic and economic progress, the completion of the reconstruction programme, the return of the pre-war population and its permanent housing. The first Law on areas of special state care was adopted in 1996 and has obtained good results in the housing section. So far, the Law on special state care has provided a total of 35320 families by renting state-owned family houses, offering state-owned land and basic building materials. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Fields of Special Government shall be brought into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act and specific rules shall be laid down in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and the Ministry of Regional Development shall establish lists of the applicant's championship. Furthermore, this law further regulates issues related to housing in houses and apartments available to the Republic of Croatia in the field of special state care and in line with the security of resources in the state budget, which includes more precise definition of residential and non-inhabitable housing facilities as well as the corresponding area of houses and apartments according to the number of family members and the rights of users who were formerly beneficiaries of renovation or housing. This law also allows for the right to grant basic construction material to be exceptionally achieved by Croatian citizens who own a war-damaged or ruined family house outside the field of special care and former tenants of residential law who own a damaged house and building land outside the area of special state care, and according to the decision of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. It is especially important to commend the addition of Article 10. The law supplementing the new articles 10a, 10.b, 10.c and 10.d. and the new Article 10.c to Croatian defenders who before the entry into force of the rules on the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in areas of special state care, Croatian defenders and members of the families of the deceased, prisoners or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and this law bought their own funds or loans to a family home owned in the area of special state care. The right to return to the purchase price shall be granted provided that they do not own any other habitable residential property or if they have not sold, donated or otherwise estranged after 8 October 1991 and provided they are resident in the purchased family house. It is 169 defenders, and these defenders will need to be provided with around 24 million kuna during 2013 and 2014. The second financial consequence of the application of this law relates to the potential income of municipalities and cities in areas of special state care from the sale of family houses and state-owned dwellings that will be reduced due to the donation of these houses and apartments. It's about 4,000 residential buildings. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club supports the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the areas of special state care and we expect that good results on housing will continue, but will correct established irregularities in the amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73254	Thank you. Now follows the club of HNS, HSU and distinguished counterpart Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on areas of special state care with a final draft of the law. It's very simple and clear why and why. First, it is a legislative proposal that comes into the debate and regulates one area with a very strong time-out. Secondly, it is a law that also complies with the Administrative Procedure Act. Third, with this legislative proposal which is not directly related to the closure of Chapter 23 but definitely has been and this area has been one of the non-resolvements of certain matters or very specific problems that our citizens have had in areas of special state concern. He was one of the main problems, one of the problems, and he prevented us from closing chapter 23. This bill corrects all the shortcomings observed so far. I'm sure there'll be more. But in any case, this is one strong step from the practice that was and which was observed in that area. One newspaper that is not common, and in any case we all need it, is that we finally form a list of the applicant's championships that satisfy the conditions laid down by this law. Because in this particular segment of the award of free construction material there were very different and strange and often times for citizens and for the rest of us who followed not exactly applicable or logical situations. Therefore, this is in any case to praise the formation of a list of championships and introduce additional transparency throughout the process, correcting injustice against those who had investments in the PPDS before 2005. And a new possibility of offering apartments or houses at the disposal of the Republic of Croatia is opened on the basis of the criteria set out in this law. In any case, it is good and useful to open up the possibility of these changes, to correct observed irregularities and injustices. And finally, it's good to introduce an additional and stronger transparency through the list of the award championships. And the key, which is mostly clear to all of us, is that this law is limited to a certain period of time. In fact, this whole matter will be resolved by implementing regulations with the Law on Areas of Special State Care, which is also an obligation that we have under the Regional Development Act, which is an obligation arising both from the Regional Development Strategy and finally something that is extremely necessary for all our chiefs, the mayors so that they can plan their fiscal incomes, so that they can plan their financial future, since they are mandatory to adopt them in a three-year period, and quite certain that the new Law on Supported Areas will take place in many municipalities and cities in their budgets, given the index of development that is only one form at this point. In fact, we have brought an index of development, very clear criteria. We didn't bring it, though. It was brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It was also prescribed as an element of the measure of the Regional Development Act. It is also defined by the Regional Development Strategy adopted by the Government because we in the Parliament did not have the opportunity to discuss the same. But in any case, at this point in time, that development index is a form on paper, and nobody benefits from it at all. I think it would be extremely useful to put him into office as soon as possible. You know, and everyone knows that in the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian party of pensioners almost in every debate, we underline the problem or I stress the problem of the reduced fiscal incomes of municipalities and cities on the one hand. On the other hand, the inability to prepare their projects for possible candidateship for EU funds, which is already evident and even in some programmes under this pre-accession programme. The municipality or city passes the contest, passes, gets the possibility to implement the project it has run for EU funds but does not have its national component. And the whole story stands. Therefore, it is very important for this development index to become operational, very important for it to be able to achieve a fiscal alignment that is defined as a possibility. It is a pity that it is not defined as an obligation in the Regional Development Act that would allow municipalities and cities one stronger and stronger and safer planning of the municipality's or city's fiscal income. However, it is still a letter on paper. And finally, almost certainly and again I will repeat on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retirement is almost certain that one significant part of the IPA pre-accession programme will remain unused and our proposal is to focus this part through technical assistance on municipalities, cities and counties based on the development index. And that's more reason to finally start with this law, to implement the Regional Development Act. And to move with it, we need to move forward and adopt or adopt the Law on Supported Areas, which gives this law its temporary status. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party, I will repeat this bill once again. But we are warning of the need to pass a law on assisted areas as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73256	Thank you very much. It is up to the Croatian Democratic Community club and distinguished counterpart Branko Kuti.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here I will say right away at the beginning that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these changes to the PPDS Act. The main purpose of this law has remained the same since the beginning, so it is to promote demographic and economic progress from specific state concerns, which are divided into three groups, the first two areas of the Republic of Croatia that were directly affected by the war, and the third group are areas that are lagging behind in their development in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. The new law takes over all those provisions of the old law that have proved good, and they have produced results on the ground, this refers primarily to the housing system that has been developed in part by extending the circle of persons who can exercise the right to housing, means young families, and the donation of houses and apartments to Croatian and HVO defenders. This law extends the number of persons who can exercise the right to housing on PPDS which today proved to be the most valuable part of the return and stay laws, but also the attraction of residents in these areas that have been completely devastated and fueled and materially and human. The biggest and best results of this law are recorded in housing, by its application, to this day it has been taken care of, we have heard this from the Secretary of State 35 thousand 320 families of returnees and settlers in state houses, apartments, and through the assignment of construction material. It is particularly important to encourage young families to remain in these areas, who are increasingly leaving their places in areas of special state care, and to ensure adequate housing for all returnees. The proposed law is also on areas of special state care, one in a set of laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, as part of the closure criteria of Chapter 23. This amendment introduces the procedural rules of this law in line with the Administrative Procedure Act, among other things, as a newspaper of the list of championships which clearly determine the order in which these requirements will be resolved, which will be settled according to the criteria, i.e. points prescribed by this law, and which will be published on 31 January of the current year for all regulatory requirements. It should be pointed out that there are another 24,000 pending housing requirements in addition to those resolved. However, it should also be pointed out here that this law regulates other issues important to residents of the area of special state concern among other things. So these amendments to the law allow for the first time the donation of houses and dwellings to small towns in areas of special care, which came to those areas in '95, '96. the year, so it's about settlers who were first placed in private property that was later returned to the owners, and these families were taken care of in public houses and apartments. These are the families that first came to the newly released areas after the Storm, and to this day they remained there in smaller places and rural areas of weaker infrastructure equipment, which we have been developing and building in recent years by raising the standard of these otherwise poorly populated areas. They've been taken care of in state houses and apartments for years, but they haven't become owners of these properties until now, even though they came to these areas first. So it's about four thousand families that are going to be permanently settled in this way, and they're going to stay in those areas. Most of them are located in the Karlovačka, Sisak-Moslavina, Ličko-senjska and Brod-Posavina County, as you know, means it is mainly about Croats who did not come from Vojvodina and primarily Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same group, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, everything and that they will not return, I repeat, means people will finally solve their basic problem, and that's the roof over their heads. We of the Croatian Democratic Community, of course, are behind this and support it. Here are the exclusions of property in cities, which is, of course, normal in the field of special state care. An old injustice is also being solved for defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War, who were also among the first to be taken care of in state houses, in areas of special state care, and they bought the houses with loans by 2005, allowing for a return of the purchase price, according to data, it is 169 defenders and their families, amounting to around 24 million kuna. I would like to remind you that since 2005, when the Government adopted a regulation on the donation of state houses and apartments to Croatian defenders in areas of special state care and later on this law, all defenders in areas of special concern have acquired the right to donate to state houses and apartments, in which they are housed under this law. To this day, 4000 687 defenders and their families have been given this way. The issue of unauthorized investment is regulated, and there is also the possibility of applying for renewal, and some issues of housing are further regulated, which in the application of the law proved to be questionable, such as the intrinsic and intrinsic housing, the residential area to which the right to housing is exercised, and later the right to buy or donate and so on. In addition to renovation and housing, the economic recovery of these areas is also important, in order to ensure a climate for the full social and economic reintegration of these areas. In areas where residential facilities are renovated it is important to provide jobs for municipal and social infrastructure, roads, water supply, schools, kindergartens, so that residents have adequate living conditions. So this law also regulated the issue of support to entrepreneurs in areas of special state care, through the support of small-value income tax relief in the maximum amount of 200 000 euros over a three-year period, which in particular encourages small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Incentives that go to cities and municipalities on PPDS have also been defined, so they retain the right to profit tax revenues. It should be pointed out that this law, along with the Law on Reconstruction, contributed to the fact that we can talk today about the completion of the process of taking care of exiles and refugees and housing. It should also be reminded that in '91, '92. Almost half a million people were displaced in Croatia, while 400,000 people, mostly from Bosnia and Herzegovina, fled to Croatia at the same time. So far, 120 thousand refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina have been locally integrated in Croatia, and according to UNHCR 131,000 refugees and displaced Serb minority members. Out of all of this, the government's unequivocal efforts and great efforts are being made to address all issues related to the return of exiles and refugees, and to address in the first place their housing problems, which is the first condition that people can return and begin a dignified life in Croatia. At the same time, other issues related to the progress and development of the return area are being addressed, and the remains of all returnees and settlers in these areas. It is necessary to highlight a few data that we have restored 148 thousand family houses and apartments to date, and this should be added to another 35,000 houses and apartments that have been built or renovated through a housing programme, and a little less than 37 billion kuna has been spent on all of them. I believe that this law will contribute to further recovery both materially and humanly through this war of devastated areas, and it also gives us a framework to continue, but also to expand the activities of development and economic growth of areas of special state concern. I believe that these amendments and amendments to the laws further improve the effectiveness of the measures taken, especially in the area of housing and economic recovery of the area of special state care. All measures taken under these laws produce already visible results through an increase in population and through the growth of overall economic activity. Maybe something less visible because of the current economic problems, but that's why we all have to keep them together. On behalf of the club, i.e. on benches, the HDZ Club has also submitted amendments to two articles, the first is Article 4(3) and the second is that I do not read Article 9(1). Once again, the HDZ club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73258	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Finally, under this point, the esteemed State Secretary, Stanko Janic. Here you go, fellow secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73259	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for the quality discussions of the Croatian Parliament's club representatives to amend the Law on the field of special state care, which can be read about the acceptance that this law is important for the housing resolution of a series of families living or coming to live in the area of special state care. But there was one word here said that this is the law that says that according to the budget the funds will be realised. It is from this pay phone that I am talking about that the Fiscal Responsibility Act is planning a three-year financial period, and it is here that MPs in this house can contribute every year to providing budget funding to a sufficient extent that the objectives of this law can be passed. It would also point out that this law and, according to the analysis of institutions that have monitored and studied development, the effects of measures in the field of special state care have been particularly encouraged by this Housing Management Programme and the Law on Special State Care, and it will find its place as a measure in future laws on submerged areas that will arise under the Law on Regional Development and the Strategy on Regional Development adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when that happens on the agenda, we also expect quality of your cooperation. Thanks for the discussion so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73260	Thank you very much. I'm finalizing the point, we'll vote when the conditions are met, and we believe that the conditions will be so I announce tomorrow at 1200 is scheduled to be a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73261	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, there was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 748. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the HDSSB Representatives' Club, and the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like an offerer's representative, Secretary of State Stanko Janic. Here you go. First Legislative Committee, 1st Amendment to the article, i.e. the only amendment to Article 1(2), (4), (6).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73262	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73263	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, in Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73264	It is not accepted that, for the reason of this addition to the article, point 4 is provided for no one to abolish the existing solution on housing care and the release of new ones, but rather the beneficiaries of housing that moved here 15 years ago are able to donate and make assumptions for sustainable staying and later development as property owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73265	Thank you. Since there are no club representatives we vote for this amendment to the Club of Representatives. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? One. He didn't get the necessary majority. We also have a Club of Representatives of the HDZ on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73266	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73267	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And the second amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73268	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73269	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law with the amendments adopted. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 95 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73270	Because for some points not all preparations have been made yet, but everything has been prepared on the agenda point - the Statute of Croatian Radio and this refers to the new text of May 9th that we received. They shall be submitted to the HRT Programme Council and to the HRT Supervisory Board. In accordance with the Statute of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT, they submitted the Law and the basis of the Law on Croatian Television to confirm this Statute. The government has delivered its opinion. The discussion was conducted by two committees, namely the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and the Committee on Legislatives. We received a report from the board's meeting on the benches here. On behalf of the promoter, Ms Nada Zgrablić Rotar, president of the Croatian Programme Council and the esteemed Mrs Sylvia Lux Kallogier, president of the Croatian Supervisory Board of Supervisors. I'm asking them if they want to explain more intro? Yeah. Here you are, Reverend Mrs. Nada Zgrabljić Rotar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73271	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I am pleased to have the opportunity here on behalf of the promoter of the HRT Programme Council and the HRT Supervisory Board to present only the brief procedure for the adoption of the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television. Just as a reminder of a long job that's been preparing so far until this final proposal is in front of you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on HRT The Croatian Programme Council and the Croatian Supervisory Board adopted on the proposal of the temporary Director-General of HRT Mr. Josip Popovac at the second joint session held on 5 April 2011. The Statute of HRT and delivered it to the Croatian Assembly for confirmation on 8 April. At the meeting held on 13 April, the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion supporting the decision to confirm the Statute of the HRT. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee at the meeting held on 4 May proposed to the Croatian Parliament to confirm the above-mentioned Statute at which it had no objections. On 5 May, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion proposing that amendments to the text of the Statute be made to the observations made in that opinion. In accordance with the above opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Programme Council and the Croatian Supervisory Committee adopted the Statute at their third emergency joint session held on 9 May, in which the proposed amendments were made and adopted unanimously, thus making them more technical than essential. On the same day, the new text of the Statute was delivered to the Croatian Assembly for confirmation. Thank you very much. I hope this Statute will answer to everyone and will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73272	Thank you very much to Mrs. Nadia Zgrabljić Rotar. And now, as co-proposer, on behalf of the co-proposer and the esteemed Mrs. Sylvia Lux Kallogier. Welcome to Parliament and here I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. As you have already been informed by the distinguished Mrs. Zgrabljić, who, as a primus interpares, acts as president of the HRT Programme Council, this Statute has been accepted by all procedures but he, this Statute which is not ideal in front of you and is not deprived of some professional illogicalities. It is harmonised, which is important for you as those who passed the law is in line with all relevant laws of the Republic of Croatia, thanks primarily to the determination and expertise of the Croatian Government, that all laws and sublegal acts which are in conformity with the European acquis be implemented immediately without delay. The Statute does not provide for the restructuring of the glomary HRT which you could apply in the text of the law except in some indications because the restructuring requested by the Government from HRT on several occasions and the last decision of 17 January this year has not been made. The Supervisory Board and my smallness at the office of the president, your decision and I have been responsible for you so far has held 7 sessions by respecting the Law on HRT, we have dealt with misunderstandings, failures and illogicalities in the financial business of national television, which has become less and less money for the production of the programme and we have provided instructions and demands to the temporary director and we have dealt with the statute only in the part from which the financial responsibility of the future HRT administration comes. It is precisely that future administration that depends on when it will happen, when it will be elected depends on your decision. Despite the imperfections this Statute has because all the laws and sublegal acts late for life I ask you on behalf of HRT employees to adopt this Statute so that we can access the choice of new administration for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Luchs. It's here on behalf of the Government of Mrs. Nina Oguljan, does she want to take her word for it? No, I don't. Whether or not the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor. On behalf of the Committee on Information and Information and Media, the esteemed colleague of Representative Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee for Information, Information and Media discussed at the 40th session held on 12 May 2011 the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television, a new text submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT Act of 9 May 2011. The Committee considered that Statute as a home working body. In its opening statement, the presidents of the Croatian Supervisory Board pointed out that this new text of the Statute was adopted at the 3rd joint session of the HRT Programme Council and the Croatian Supervisory Board. Compared to the previous text of the Statute, the differences are only of nomotechnical nature. At the time of the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the new text of the Statute of the Croatian Television. In the discussion, the members of the Committee held the view that the Statute was good and that the errors of nomotechnical nature had been changed without changing the essence of the Statute and that it was in accordance with the Law on Croatian Television. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: It supports the decision to confirm the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73276	Thank you very much. There's no need for another committee. Then we move to a club debate and re-reputed colleague Ljubica Lukačić on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, briefly related to the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television, I will first immediately say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the decision to confirm the HRT Statute. Namely, the Law on Croatian RadioTelevision provides that the Statute of the Croatian RadioTelevision and Division of Internal Design Units, the Croatian authorities and their jurisdiction under the Law on HRT, the terms and conditions for the appointment and resolution of directors of individual construction units, the terms and conditions for the appointment and resolution of the editors-in-chiefs in accordance with the Law on HRT and the Media Act, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of other editors, the authority and the decision-making of the individual bodies of the HRT and other issues of meaning for the performance of the activity. Like all other questions in accordance with the Croatian Radio Television Act. As we have already heard this new text of the Statute of Croatian RadioTelevision for which the Government has no objections, so in the first text there were some mistakes but they were really just nomotechnical nature and it was corrected. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club believe that this Statute will allow Croatia's broadcasting to fully function since we know that the monitoring of the board and the HRT Programme Council are already doing their job. Therefore, this Statute will allow the appointment of a third body of the Croatian Radio Television Administration and, of course, the appointment of editors-in-chiefs, editors-in-chiefs, etc. In any case, we think that this Statute, as I have already said, will make the work of Croatian Radio Television more transparent that when the appointment of new administrations and editors-in-chiefs and editors of construction units and editors of the program that Croatian Radio Television will become a public service, we have already spoken about it in this Assembly and we all expect this, therefore the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community here again points out that it supports the decision to confirm the decision to confirm the Statute of Croatian Radio Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73278	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. A distinguished colleague colleague named Sunnya Glavak has applied. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a colleague Lukačić said in one part of her presentation on behalf of the club, the business and functioning of Croatian radiotelevision of public interest and I believe that this will be resolved in this way too. The crisis after more than a year and five months seems to me. Accepting the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television means finalising and calling a public tender for the selection of public television leaders, and the document is fully in line with all the laws. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's objections were equally adopted. The adoption of the Statute will also elect the last body of Croatian broadcasting. We know that by now, and by working well together, I must especially point out, the Supervisory Board and the HRT Programme Council will act, so the administration will also be elected, which will then be able to fully implement the provisions of the Croatian Radio Television Act, as set out in Article 18, which says that all together are responsible for the successful work and implementation of this law, so also the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and the Administration of Croatian Television. The new statute, just a brief look at the structure of the editor-in-chief, predicts that Croatia's broadcasting has the main editors of the programme proposed by the president of the administration and will no longer be, to call it, overlapping competences. Croatian TV will have the editor-in-chief, Croatian Radio will have the editor-in-chief, so the editor-in-chief of the radio, and the new statute defines what we call new media, or what it stands for in the statute of the multimedia, which means that public television on the internet or on its portal will remain as it is in the integration of the department that already exists, but it will have equalness in that editorial sense of its own editor. I would like to emphasise the fact that it is commendable that the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, if we go back a few years, if we remember what the problems were, what was happening on TV, I would like to express the satisfaction that they unanimously decided to propose such a statute to the Croatian Assembly. Of course, nothing is ideal, so we can't even talk about this text that it is ideal but in any case what is most important is the basis for improving the current state of play on Croatian radio and I believe that not only us who are users of public service but above all the large number of employees, people who live, who work on Croatian radio. I think that's just as important to them. In accordance with all of this, I would just like to say, to commend another decision that happened in the meantime, which we have defined here in the Croatian Parliament, which is that the Croatian Radio Television has been modelled by European public services since recently received by the Commissioner for Consumer Services, and perhaps that our public knows who we can address with all those remarks that we also know as representatives of benches or phone calls sent to us. Therefore, the person who is in charge of this from now on is the Commissioner for Consumer Services. In line with this, I will support the adoption of the Statute of Croatian Radio Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73280	Thank you very much. There are no other objections or wishes for discussion. We see that you've agreed, and then I'm closing this point. We'll vote as I've already said, scheduled tomorrow at 12 o'clock. It would end today's work because what we had prepared for today is and... We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and with the agenda point related to the sisterhood or the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sisterhood. [[You don't understand.]] Have a nice afternoon and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-12-0.u73281	We are moving on to the Statute of Croatian Radio Television. The applicant of the HRT Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the Statute of the Croatian Radio Television. Please join in and vote on the Statute, acceptance of the Statute. The result? The Croatian Radio Television Statute was adopted unanimously by 93 votes.
