ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70226	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law proposes the establishment of a billion kuna guarantee fund. This Guarantee Fund and the proposed guarantees are intended for new investments and completion of existing investments in such a way as to strengthen the ability of entrepreneurs to provide funding sources for their sustainable projects. Namely, our analysis of the reasons why entrepreneurship projects do not receive and are unable to obtain quality sources of funding shows that this is the reason for two factors. The first, that part of the project shows a lack of insurance and collateral instruments that banks require and the second lack of their own participation. The purpose of this Guarantee Fund is therefore to act on the removal of these two underlying causes that prevent more intensive financing of investment projects and the possibility for entrepreneurs to reach financial resources. This Guarantee Fund is therefore based on the division of the risk between banks, HBORs and guarantee providers or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The investment project, namely, passes a risk analysis and meets the criteria and analysis of the bank in terms of its sustainability and perspectives, will be able to run for this guarantee. The Bank will fully finance the investment project, bear the risk of financing, bear the risk of implementation, realization and supervision of the project. The state will bear the risk of 30% of the principal loan, given that guarantees can be granted up to 30% of the principal or no more than 50 million kuna. In case, however, during the implementation and duration of the project, it is shown that the project failed and that its implementation failed, which is why the credit given for the financing of this project becomes bad then at the time of collection the bank will have to carry out the executive procedure itself, be charged from the insurance instruments and only after the completion of the final procedure will it be possible to appeal to this guarantee for the amount of 30% of the principal that will exist at the moment the credit became bad. Exceptionally, if the executive procedure does not take place within a period of 2 years from the time of the start of the executive procedure, the bank will be able to appeal to this guarantee. Perhaps the most obvious way of functioning of the Guarantee Fund is needed and can be explained on one example. In the case of a project that builds up some plant, what is available to the entrepreneur and what the entrepreneur requires from the bank, it is asking for credit for its investment project for which to the greatest extent it has the insurance instruments in the form of building land on which the plant will be built. Investment in the construction of the plant will naturally grow and the value of the insurance instruments, but very often the bank tells me it's not enough. And I can't fund a project like that for you. It is precisely in this case that a project that the bank assesses as sustainable, which the bank assesses as enforceable and for which part of the insurance instruments are missing, that the entrepreneur will be able to address the state to obtain this guarantee. The guarantee fund on behalf of the Republic will be managed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Banks will compete for the guarantee quota at the auction and what we expect as a result and as a criterion for which the banks will compete at the auction is an interest rate at both the interest rate and exactly what they are talking about today, and this is the reduction of the part of the minimum reserve, all conditions have been created and the Croatian National Bank has joined the government's efforts to reduce the interest rate. I therefore take this opportunity to express the expectation that further economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia will be intensified through the Guarantee Fund and low interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70227	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70228	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Minister and Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at the 72nd session held on 2 March 2011 The draft Law on the Guarantee Fund for the Encouragement of Economic Development as a home working body. Following the opening statement by the Government's representative on the reasons for the adoption of this draft law, in particular as regards the urgent procedure in the debate on the Committee, the opinion was expressed that last year's legal framework, i.e. the model of granting guarantees for economic development, did not and the recovery did not produce the expected results, therefore this proposal should also be supported by a law in which the risk is more uniformly shared between the state and the banks. The proposed law will allow entrepreneurs who, due to lower capitalisation, cannot meet the conditions of loan insurance and their own resources, who have good projects to have access, with the help of the State and the Guarantee Fund, to finance sustainable projects and therefore that this bill will certainly contribute positively to economic recovery. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Guarantee Fund Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70229	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70230	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill, with the fact that with such an idea to the Croatian public as an initiative, to support the overall efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia a year and a half ago, it is a pity that we lost a year and a half, but it is good to finally have something in this direction and started. We passed a similar law a year ago, which also had the idea of forming a guarantee fund, whose idea was aimed at covering part of the risk of credit to banks, with the aim of easing the negative effects of the global crisis on Croatian economies and creating conditions for a sustainable economy, growth and improving the liquidity of economic operators, I repeat, for about a year now and the period of validity was 31.12.2010. With this bill we open up a new possibility, a new chance, which again in its goal, unlike the previous one, says that guarantees under this law are meant to strengthen the potential of entrepreneurs, not to read any further. So the first one was meant to cover part of the loan gap, the credit risk of banks, and this one is aimed at strengthening entrepreneurship. Both laws are about the same intention, but the fact that this first law, that's the so-called law. popularly called model B, experienced a total fiasco, that out of one auction that only 200 million was used by 36.9 million, of the total potential announced by 2 billion used only 36.9 million. And after that devastating start of model B, we lost a year, and in the meantime, there was a change in government, and it finally realized that something in the system was wrong. I want to remind all of us that the governor of the National Bank was prepared as an incentive to free the economy 10 billion, so when he realized that there was no bread, he simply gave up the whole idea. The fact that about 3 billion as the central bank has let go, to this day still lies in a special account more than half the funds, unused, and in the meantime... Only when measured by internal debt did we climb from 26 to 36 billion. [[You don't understand.]] When we discussed this 2010 law, we all supported it, and as a legal proposal around opens up space, but something happened why it wasn't used, of only 2 billion used by 37 billion. That's what happened. There was an implementing measure adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we had no idea when we passed the law, normally when we had no idea when the consequence of this measure was precisely this law, and to that effect, the complete risk was transferred to banks, the complete risk. The risk of the guarantee has been fully transferred to banks. So which bank is ready to go in or take some guarantees if she has to vouch for it? And the whole idea was precisely on the trail, as the Minister said in the introduction, that this guarantee fund was primarily intended for entrepreneurs who were inadequately capitalised, entrepreneurs who do not have enough collateral for their business projects, and they have business projects. In other words, it has been passed or passed, or an economy offered one bill, but at the same time the Government of the Republic of Croatia has ensured the ineffectiveness of this law, and that I am speaking ineffectively, I repeat, once again, 2 billion as planned, of this law used only 36.9. What's this about? Why? We play with the fates of people, the unemployed, people who receive, work and do not receive pay, we throw ourselves at rather arrogant statements towards citizens who felt the need to demonstrate their protest. We had the opportunity to use 2 billion, which is finally, given the 50 percent risk risk involved, in... Four billion of us blocked the system. [[You don't understand.]] A new pearl, a new example of funds from the IPARD pre-accession programme. Use is only 5.09%, 6%. Comrade Shuker, I have these data that you have at the 10th month, possibly something happened in the meantime, possibly, but something that happened these days, it's a measure of 301 infrastructure, mostly municipalities and cities, out of 67 demands that ultimately carry 280 million incentive investments, and it's mostly infrastructure, the construction sector is collapsed, all 67 demands are denied, people are complaining. The paying agency at the head with its principal rejected all requests. It's like having a class teacher run a test, all students get a unit, and who's to blame? Students? Very likely. In this case, it measures 301 about 100 thousand kunas, and the cities have singled out on average for the preparation of the documentation. 67 projects rejected, 6.7 million kunas spent. For what? At a time when local and regional self-government units usually cut and dropped revenues. But reading, people have come to me, reading this decision of refusing to report can't be trusted, can't believe it's listed next, which is that there's no adequate documentation for public procurement and that it's not complete. So it wasn't delivered and it wasn't complete. Well, now my question is, how is it, I think, based on which it was found not complete if it wasn't delivered? It would make sense that all of these rejections say that everything hasn't been delivered. So people can move forward with the administrative procedure. That people could possibly fix something if it wasn't delivered. But it doesn't normally say that. Furthermore, one completely insane thing, a really crazy thing. One such thing can only be written by a mentally unstructured person. That one of the reasons why it is rejected is because the applicant would be asked to submit an OIB certificate, unique to the city and issued by the Ministry of Finance. So it's being rejected because it would be asked to submit a certificate to the OIB. So, specifically in the signature of Mrs. Anica Lucevic, she already knows today that the city, in particular in this case Lepoglava, will not get that confirmation. They weigh 13.5 million kuna and have proven that they have funding coverage, pre-financing of the project and with bank resources entirely and additionally in their budget of 7 million means a total of 20 million at their disposal. Furthermore, we have introduced, we have introduced no European Commission, we have introduced an obligation to open international competitions, meaning to apply to the EU Official Journal for all amounts. EU practice to necessarily projects above 5m euros, up to 5m euros sufficiently national. No, we're bigger bishops than the Pope. We have to report everything. Number 2, as soon as the international announcement is normal and all documentation has to be in English. If it were a domestic publication, it is enough that the documentation is in Croatian. The following pearl, for the purchase of machinery, the applicant must submit an environmental impact elaborate that costs 30 thousand kuna. To get tractors, vans, anything. The EU did not ask for it, we prescribed it. A work-protection elaborate should be provided for the purchase of the combination. She didn't ask for the EU, we prescribed it. And it's normal to use it at 6%. Out of 67 demands as far as this moment came to the Payment Agency, everything was rejected. So who's crazy about it? Who's really crazy here? And whether this lady, her name is Anica Lucevic, head of the Ministry of Agriculture's paying agency, who signs such arguments, whether she can perform that function at all, will do direct damage. I'm going back to this law. Surely this law has success, there is a chance it will succeed because the state takes the risk. That's the key. Unlike the one before who had the opportunity, but by the government's regulation, we reduced that possibility. Certainly, it is not by chance that the CNB, in agreement with banks and entrepreneurs, has released 6.3 billion kuna from the reserve, without the government, is not an accident. And that's a good move because the government is doing nothing. The fact is that our economy needs very specific help, the fact is that we've been talking about it for a long time. The HNS club proposed one such bill a year and a half ago, co-workers from the SDP each go with a legal proposal. I'm glad we finally got one enforceable law. We hope that the government regulation will not make it impossible to implement it as it was before, but it is crucial that, for the need of the economy, the government's political decision is, in particular, clear that it is not, perhaps now we will get it, perhaps now there will be a political decision to take responsibility, and ultimately, an extremely important thing is its ability, which, for example, to the present laws, which I have mentioned about the paying agency and IPARD pre-accession programmes, given the overall state of the fact that these incompetences do not exist. However, in the belief that this bill will provide concrete support to the economy, it is a pity that we have not defined which economic branches, I am still saying in general, that is a pity. But we hope that in the time ahead, it will come just as a consequence of not knowing but simply a need, and employers have sent this very clear message. The HNS-HSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70231	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70232	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. Yeah, this is me agreeing with my predecessor's good law. Why? Because he intends to help the economy. A little bit when it comes to economics, the last few years in Croatia have a free omen, but this law does have such a positive omen. I used to call the government, but this measure is something that should surely be accepted. Secondly, in the light of this Guarantee Fund Act, it is literally said, I will quote "that this law proposes the establishment of a Guarantee Fund to encourage economic development in the follow-up of a billion kuna Guarantee Fund through which the Republic of Croatia will take over the coverage of the risks of new credit defaults of banks", and then it is said that "The intention is primarily to encourage the launch of investment projects that will bring positive effects on the Croatian economy, projects that are considered acceptable in this model are primarily targeted at long-term investment projects. Guarantees are given up to a maximum of 30% of the principal amount of the loan, but no more than 50 million kuna. The guarantees are issued in accordance with this law by the end of 30 April 2012." What should also in some way guarantee "a fair distribution of that money from that Guarantee Fund". Not that money always goes to tell the same people, always the same after one stalker. Well, someone can count on state aid, and others can't hope for anything. What bothers me terribly is that a whole series of companies in this country end up in bankruptcy, then they form a new company, they leave the state, local self-government doesn't matter to their companies, and by means of connections and after that these new companies continue to receive both guarantees and privileged "credits". Others don't get anything, all neatly meet both taxes and wages and contributions, have fewer than the workers who line up with them and simply can't get up to one full of money by the state. The other thing I guess we should talk about once is black or gray. I think it's really gone too far in this country. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I looked at a World Bank report saying that in Croatia it works in black or accepts work on a black 35% gross social product. I personally think they're exaggerating. 35% is over 100 billion kuna. So a 100 billion kuna VAT this country could be revenueing from 23 to 25, maybe more than billions of kuna. I mean clearly you can't keep up with each one of those kunas. Let's just say that working on black is not 35%, that 50% of that amount, but someone is still depriving the state of income, so we can only say ourselves on that basis of nearly 10 billion kuna. We all know that working on black is kind of "the mechanism of this social stability", but I think that some individuals abuse it and that one practice should eventually end up and it literally happens that some individuals operate a little employment service, and they have a little bit more fuck than the people who run this country, even though I know that a bunch of people from the institution are absolutely unhappy people who have nothing to do with this fuck and who can't help themselves without opening new jobs. This law aims to create jobs or help the economy, and then a clear and reduced unemployment and so many conditions of the law should be supported. I'm saying that, and in the context of the fact that since 2012, the tax return has been lifted and I think one measure is to blame. But let's let it go now. Where is Croatia on 9.3.2011? Our gross social product has been dropping for the third year, all the countries in our environment are coming out of the recession. Croatia is still deeply affected by it. Our unemployment is about 7.8% higher than in the same period last year. In two years, Croatia lost 140 thousand jobs, industrial production in the 1st month 2011 was 6.7% lower than it was in the same month last year. About the uncertainty, the fact that there is no investment, that there is no investment, that there is no need to simply spend not a word, citizens, the economy, pension funds, cannot go into an investment cycle among other things because there is indeed one political uncertainty. Every day we witness the gathering of citizens, the pressures of peasants closing the freeways, the border crossings don't give God, to justifiably draw attention to himself. Unpreparedness to simply lead a dialogue between the position and the opposition should be welcomed so much by President Josipovic's actions. They're all just waiting for what's going to happen this season. When I talk about the season, I mean the agricultural season, especially the tourist season. For God forbid it should be endangered because after that many who live by the sea and who live by tourism but also others would be simply hungry. So one of these laws that weighs up to a billion kuna, but which can tie another $3.4 billion in various investments, is absolutely something that has come in handy at the moment. Clearly, I want to trust these small craftsmen that this Guarantee Fund will be at their service as well as I don't know some economic operators more clearly. But I think that these small craftsmen should be and that they can reach a space where they simply operate for decades that is urban or state-owned, because you all know the villagers have come to the ground in the last 15 years, the workers could buy apartments, the tycoons came to the factories, the denationalization was carried out, I don't know, etc. Only craftsmen can reach their own space to guarantee their survival. The key provisions of this law are Article 8, 9, 10. of the guarantees here, according to this law, for loans intended for the financing of new investments and for the completion of already started investments including financing of the necessary crafts. These loans must be adequately secured. Credits on a minimum period of 20 months up to 15 years, Article 8. Article 9 states that the guarantee for individual credit may amount to a maximum of 30% of the principal amount of the loan, so I said it binds at least 3 and maybe 4, maybe 5 billion kuna, but no more than 50 million kuna at the time of the guarantee. For the purposes of Article 10(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following definitions shall apply: I think maybe we should make it possible to buy, not just to build that business space. But what may be more important today than even this Guarantee Fund Act, which absolutely needs to be supported, is this reaction by Governor Rohatinski, who gave 6.3 billion kuna for tourism loans to the processing industry. But what's interesting, with whom Mr. Rohatinski negotiated with these clients, with bankers, with entrepreneurs, not with the government. And now the interesting governor says, it's our attempt to help the economy, we don't want to help the government or any political option, it's a little tense. And Mr. Milosevic says, yet he asks what it means that the CNB is communicating with employers and bankers, not with the government. Otherwise, the leading rating agency is examining Croatia's rating these days, if it further increases the price of Croatia's debt, and on Monday it comes to the collection of commitments of 750m euros, means bonds previously placed by Mr. Shuker on the US market. I believe it's until the fall, isn't it? ... It's 2002, and it hasn't been since last year? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What about Parliament? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's where we were together. ... But what's most important is to believe and express hope that the ratings won't come down. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it was announced yesterday that there was no decline in ratings, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Every day we've been on the Internet for 4-5 hours, but mostly I'm following these protests and these tours here. But once again, with whom it means, well, well, it's a good thing that no credit rating that stands out today still BBB- means right next to bankruptcy. God forbid he fell because it would just be terrible. Who did Governor Rohatinski simply agree with? I said, with bankers and entrepreneurs, and that may well be saying that in future elections, perhaps more than the opposition and the protesters, and perhaps you gentlemen on the right, will decide capital. All in all, it is also good that Mr. Josipovic called the parties, that is the last moment I said to help the country, the people, so if it should and should allow an honorable departure from power. But you know what the problem is, if the governor avoids the government, then what do you expect the people to love you? E won't work. Okay, no matter what, I don't want to talk about it, I talked about it this morning, the law is correct, it's good. We'll see who that money goes to, and I'd like as much money as possible to be tied to that 1 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70233	Two corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the public, although we've all heard a throwout here, but it's not true that it's about Shucker's loan and bonds, as my colleague Cain said. It's about the 2002 loan that Cain's colleague has been doing... No, no, you didn't, not at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The second is incorrect that Croatia's credit rating has fallen. Here's the secretary of state, or the secretary of state, said that the secretary of state and the secretary of state said that yesterday was published and that you should have read that, that the credit rating of Croatia did not fall. And it's not Croatia in front of bankruptcy, it's a complete lie. Croatia has even better ratings than some members of the European Union. So... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70235	And Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So in a series of false and incorrect allegations that my colleague Cain said about this pay phone, which are otherwise not good because it can really affect that credit rating he was talking about, I'll look back on only one thing. It's not true that the governor avoids the government, it's autonomous law. The Croatian National Bank is an independent institution and the governor is simply following this model B changed by the government and which we are going to discuss today, making a decision to reduce the foreign reserve and thus fire business banks for targeted projects around 6 billion and 300, thus making an independent contribution. But I think that today when we talk about this point we should be more concerned about why that previous model failed to give us an answer what we should do tomorrow and ultimately it's good that business banks, central banks and entrepreneurs go into a joint project because let's not forget that this reserve in a certain way and collects the price of capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70237	Thank you. I would ask the club representatives to be representatives and MPs in the Assembly at 13 o'clock to supplement the agenda with two points: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support and amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance. 13 o'clock voting on the completion of the agenda. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70238	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers and state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to overcome the difficulties in the economy, eliminate the negative effects of the global crisis on the Croatian economy, in creating conditions for long-term sustainable economic growth, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 adopted measures for economic recovery and development to preserve existing and create new jobs, increase investment, ensure a satisfactory level of liquidity of the economy, increase production, stabilise the revenues of the state budget, improve the balance of payments structure and other benefits that will allow the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework. One of the measures was the adoption of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development established by the Guarantee Fund, and guarantees could be issued by 31 December 2010. Therefore, the rules on State aid also applied to those laws and therefore had to be set a precise deadline for the implementation of measures under this law. In order to continue those measures, it is necessary to pass the proposed law in 2011. At the same time, this law also proposes changes to the Guarantee Fund and to make it more effective and efficient. The intention is primarily to encourage the launch of investment projects that will bring positive effects on the Croatian economy. Projects considered acceptable in this model focus primarily on long-term investment projects. Guarantees are given up to a maximum of 30% of the principal amount of the loan, but no more than 50 million kuna. Guarantees shall be issued in accordance with this law by 30 April 2012. The users of loans for which the Republic of Croatia guarantees the basis of this law may be entrepreneurs who are established, i.e. their residence in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of the proposed funding model based on the allocation of guarantee quotas to banks through the public call of HBOR. Guarantees under this law aimed at strengthening the potential of entrepreneurs to launch and implement investment projects with the aim of easing the negative effects of the global crisis on the Croatian economy and creating conditions for sustainable economic development, and how... where otherwise this law does not lay down the relations between the provisions of the budgetary regulations and the laws governing mandatory relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the HBOR shall carry out the guarantee procedure under the basis of this Act, conduct supervision of the dedicated use of the credit provided by the guarantee under this Act and supervise and implement the recovery procedure with the basis of the guarantees paid, and the banks in whose favour the day of the guarantee shall be carried out with the attention of a good expert by the insurance of the given guarantees. The HBOR may also, for the purpose of more effective treatment, authorise banks benefiting from the guarantee of the day to carry out other tasks other than guarantee insurance. I will mention only more concrete is Article 11 of the proposed law where these provisions of Article 11 regulate that guarantees under this Act are irrevocable and payable on the first valid written call of the bank that received the guarantee. The bank that received the guarantee shall notify the HBOR of the cancellation of the loan contract and of any measures taken for the purpose of insurance and demand on the day of the loan. A valid written call from the bank must contain evidence that, as a good expert after the cancellation of the loan contract, the bank has implemented all the insurance measures and enforcement measures under all available insurance instruments. Liabilities on the basis of a valid written call for payment per guarantee shall be due within 15 working days of the delivery of this valid written call for payment by guarantee. The amount of the guarantee obligation shall be determined on the date on which the HBOR has received the notification of the cancellation of the loan. The Bank is obliged to implement all measures of enforcement within two years of the delivery of the contract notice to HBOR. In the event that the bank failed to collect the debt from the credit user, the bank submitted a written call for payment under that guarantee. The Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribes in more detail the conditions and deadlines for guarantees of the day under this Act. This guaranteeing model allows entrepreneurs who, due to lower capitalisation, are not able to meet all the conditions laid down in their own resources, who, according to the bank's assessment, have sustainable investment projects, that, with the help of the state, have access to funding for these projects. Guarantees under this law shall not be granted to credit beneficiaries exclusively for trade funds for the purchase of a share or shares or for the payment of existing loans used for those purposes. If the credit user has a debt to the State for which no payment is granted under specific rules, and credit users who are in difficulty as defined by the State aid rules. The guarantee fund amounts to a billion kunas. The amount of the guarantee quota for each bank shall be determined on the basis of the bank's offer in accordance with the criteria to be published in the invitation to tender, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will lay down the basic elements of the bank's offer and the criteria for the allocation of the guarantee quota, the conditions and deadlines for the reduction of the guarantee quota, and the way in which the guarantee quota is used. Since the task and objective of this proposed model of financing and strengthening the potential of entrepreneurs to launch and implement investment projects by providing guarantees from the Croatian Peasant Club Guarantee Fund will support the proposal for a law on the Guarantee Fund to promote economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70239	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. At first, let's settle our doubts immediately. The SDP will support this bill because we believe that in this situation when we are still on the road as our prime minister says, to find the way out of the crisis any aid the economy will receive is a good and a reduction in the risk of lending in this way and thus the capital prices of our businesses are good and of course we will support it. But you need to turn and draw attention to certain things. In 14.1.2010, at the government meeting, the Government adopted a decision on measures for economic recovery. There were two basic models. One was about lending and another model was this Guarantee Fund that we're getting here in the Parliament today and we're probably going to vote on these days. I purposely speak the date when it happened, and it happened on 14.1.2010. So, a year and three months ago, it was almost up to the government to announce and take a decision at the government's meeting when the prime minister said, quote: "These are the steps of the work that we will end in this year, and most of them start at the end of this month or the beginning of next month, so the year is far out, and in some ways all that is happening in Croatia is partly due to what the Government is not fast enough and insufficiently proposing solutions that would help us get out of the crisis. For a year and three months it took this law to come into the parliamentary procedure, see how much law, how many articles there are, which is an idea, not too complicated, and I think it should have been done before. What kind of situation we are in, and as I said, the government has proposed two models of ways and measures for economic recovery, and I would say economic recovery in Croatia is like a snail, it hasn't even moved yet, and this year it is moving but really slow, slow steps. In two years of 2009 and 2010, we lost 7.4% of GDP, and now we see how devastating it was to create the HDZ government two and a half years ago, that the crisis in Croatia de facto will not touch at all and how much damage this inaction has caused to Croatia, the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. Last year, industrial production dropped 1.4%, construction activity 16%, unemployment increased in those two years, 2009 and 2010 by 120,000 new unemployed. 80,000 more people in Croatia are working, and they don't get paid. So we have about 400,000 people who are able to work and have no income, nor can they feed their families, and these are the main problems that this government unfortunately does not deal with. Unfortunately, among these 80,000 who work and do not receive wages there are companies that are also state-owned. Here we have one company that has been waiting for months and waited for months until the other day, it has been paid three months late, it is the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjeolasica. A state-owned company where workers work, and they don't get paid, of course they don't contribute for a few months. And what we're going to talk about next is the government's activity and the way it works, when in its businesses it doesn't respect the positive laws and disrespects the workers that work there, that 2 months or more people work and don't receive the pay. Unfortunately, we cannot have such a picture of society, of course, either better or among entrepreneurs. Of course, there are also those who break the laws and unfortunately underestimate people who work fairly and do not pay their wages. Now, someone mentioned earlier, and the mistrust of the Croatian National Bank in the government, I believe that that move that Mr Rohatinski made yesterday came from words to deeds. We've been listening to the CNB's objections for a year, two, three about me telling them the need for fiscal consolidation, the fiscal irresponsibility of this government, that we're the only one in the environment that we run fiscally... policy, so we're not cutting costs, we've increased costs over these years of crisis, and of course after what the CNB warned several years about the situation yesterday's measure and bypassing the government in some way, and even bypassing these models, because the CNB made it clear that this money he had agreed with employers and banks to fire and put at the disposal of industry and tourism, that it would not go past the current models A and B proposed by the government, because of what he thought the models were unsuccessful. [[You don't understand.]] At the moment of 2 billion kuna available for model A and B according to CNB information, more than half of the money stands unused. So the problem is, it's not that there's no liquidity, there's no money to credit the economy, the problem isn't that there aren't those who need money, because we see the difficulties our entrepreneurs and our companies are in, which is why we've been suffering the economic downturn for the past two years. The problem, of course, is in realisation, and who's in charge of realisation? Government. The government with its decisions, the Government through the HBOR of its own banks, are responsible for these models when they are on the disposition of funds and when they are on the disposition of the people who need them, to address it. Unfortunately, nothing is done or very little is made, and more than half of the funds still stand unused, and it is back to the beginning of the reason why we in 2009 and 2010, we have a 7.4% drop, which is why we are the only country in the environment that does not achieve economic recovery in 2010, even though it is symbolic, but we are not the only ones out of recession, and the countries we like to compare with from our environment, have and record economic recovery from the region. And that's not what we often hear as a message from the government, the reason we later entered the recession, so we'll come out later. The countries also entered the recession during a similar period when Croatia also began to reach economic growth rates within a year. The problem is incompetence, and I would say one inflexible, not to be rougher sometimes than the ignorance of those who should be in the government deciding on things that affect the economic recovery of all of us and those people, I said 120,000 who have lost their jobs, and those 80 who don't get paid. Isn't it embarrassing, gentlemen, that after seven years of HDZ's government we have for the first time less employees than we had when you took over 2004? So you haven't been able to hire a new man in those seven years. We now have fewer employees than we had in January 2004. These are the problems, of course, which we have to talk clearly about here, 7 missed years, a million and 380 thousand people are employed, it's smaller, that figure is smaller than in January 2004. Of course, I said at the beginning the SDP will support this law. What we would like to see is that this law goes more to stimulate industry, especially exports, since we see that exports have a trend of growth in the past year and that's one of the data that's more positive. Unfortunately, in this law, there is a provision that it, said Article 10, does not give users credits intended exclusively for crafts, only for crafts means, now that there is no data, it can be over 50%, below 50%, so it can be manipulated. It would be good to provide guarantees for those companies that will create jobs intended for production and export. I think we should make every effort there is. And in those, I'd say models, we've also heard from the CNB's assessment of the failure of A and B business lending, absolutely need to think about which companies can still be helped. Whether companies with difficulties are the ones and unfortunately those who could not enter that credit line are the ones that were already in trouble by 30 July 2008. Because as we remember on July 30, 2008, the government still claimed, not only then, but 4, 5 months after we were not in recession and there would be no problem, that the recession would nick us, but we were already in serious trouble and our companies were in trouble. And perhaps you should consider that this deadline is a little flexible because many companies cannot use the funds that are currently available because they do not meet these specific criteria. And it should not be mentioned that every job in this situation when gold is preserved is worth it, and especially the problem is that money obviously has, liquidity has, and we don't know how to realize it. Here it is, the SDP Representatives Club will support this law, but we regret that we have 7 missed years, which we have not hired a new man, which we have ignored for 2 years the crisis, which we are not doing anything, which we are not proposing and not adopting the laws that the SDP in this House has proposed over the past 2 years. It's about 40 legal solutions. We didn't do anything. We lost two years. Unfortunately, this is why we have a large part of the situation that we have in Croatia these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70241	Thank you. Five corrections. First, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations from Mr. Maras who says the government is not fast enough and not high-quality to propose measures for economic recovery. And another incorrect quote, and he says the problem is inaction. Those are incorrect allegations. Here is the law ahead of us with a guarantee fund and low interest rates will speed up Croatia's economic recovery. In addition, Mr Maras, you would do well to monitor the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme's implementation plan then you would see that it is happening within the expected deadlines and planned activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70243	Second, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's incorrect that the government said the crisis wouldn't touch us. As I said the other day, when the government adopted an amendment on the level of insurance savings for Croatian citizens, the government made it clear that the financial crisis had reached Croatia. Only that the government cannot allow itself as an opposition to yell at all the bells because if we had yelled at all the bells then there would have been a stampede on the business banks and could not be able to get what is difficult for you to get through your mouth, but this should say that Croatia is one of the few countries that has not had an earthquake practically in any major financial institution. Do of the old do you from the new members. A colleague of Maras, if we talked like that, then we'd be looking at other things more realistically. Finally, it is not 30.08.2008. but 30.06.2008. and if I am not wrong not once and when proposing this model, and also in this House, it is said that this is the EU criterion because model A and B according to that old model were being treated with support and therefore it should have been 30.06. that we can get the consent of the Competition Protection Agency and one of the basic amendments to this new law, and you obviously did not notice everything, because it is so perceived that there is no support status. And then we should know that, that's the difference why this, not that the government set that date.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70245	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the manipulation of the numbers of fellow Maras lists 80,000 people who don't receive salaries which is not true. If you listened to the profession a few days ago, it's about 9,000 people who don't get paid, which is a huge number, while others get paid, but they don't get paid. Also, you can be sure that the workers of "Belolasica" will get paid, but I don't know if they will get paid, they have received, whether they will get paid by employees of your main economic expert "Kurika coalition" Radiira Cacic who did not get paid in 4 months. And another manipulation is, if you're talking about employees, employees, then you're talking about unemployed people who were 100,000 more than they were in 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70247	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70248	Thank you very much. So here's the clue to what my colleague just said, I'm correcting the inaccuracies because he said that today there are more, or that there are fewer employees in 2011 than there were in 2004. And you forget that 440 thousand were unemployed in 2004. Well, then I really can't agree with your findings. But today you really don't want to tell the truth, but you're using this stage to draw public attention and how it's bad, how it's far worse than it was before, and you're really not going to go back to those data and indicators that were in 2004. Let's not use this stage for such political messages, pamphlets, demagogues, but really get to work and accurate data, let this public know. Regardless, you're the opposition I know that's how you have to address yourself, but don't go too far, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70249	Okay. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that model A was a failure. According to model A, 2.5 billion kunas were withdrawn for the Croatian economy. Thus, it certainly cannot be a failed model. The second thing, I'll tell you, you've been corrected by your colleagues, and in the number of people who don't get paid, they've clearly told the businessmen, or the HUP that it's about 9,000 people. But you are really avoiding the fact that in your time there were over 400,000 unemployed, almost 100,000 more unemployed than today. 100,000 unemployed more than today. And you're yelling at each other along with the ones you paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70251	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. So we have before us the Guarantee Fund Act. I am glad that all clubs will support him, but what may be crucial in this law is this sentence in his explanation where he says that this model allows entrepreneurs who, due to their lower capitalisation, cannot meet all the conditions of the loan insurance from their assets and who, according to the bank's assessment, have sustainable investment projects that, with the help of the State from the Guarantee Fund, have access to funding for state projects. And I think this sentence actually gives a taste of this law and what this law wants to achieve. But given that there has been a lot of reference here today to that old model B and model A, I think that here we can more realistically assess this move by Governor Rohatinski and this government proposal of the law, we have to do facts that are simply like that because we can't get away from them. So listen to the thinking of those who have been operating on these loans, so the business banks that have received requests from business entities and the HBOR that have held auctions for these guarantees. So, as their observations were, and that is ultimately why model B was the result of the model as it was, so business entities "as well as business banks are exclusively focused on solving the problem of current liquidity", it was definitely the biggest problem of the Croatian economy over the past 2.5 years. Therefore, with the settlement of current liabilities and existing loans, this is the reason for the poor response or the success of the auction held in the allocation of guarantee quotas. Therefore, companies simply did not apply for investments, did not invest, did not dare enter into investments. The only imperative requirement for them was how to secure liquid liquidity and how to ensure that their company survives in these times of crisis. That's the facts. Because when you look at how many guarantees were required under model B, then you'll see that there were no demands from entrepreneurs, but that there were several hundred demands, that their business banks and HBOR had not approved them, then you might say that this or the one was guilty of not having happened. However, in 2009, they had very different priorities based on these priorities. Therefore, the current situation in the economy certainly helped to reduce the capacity of investors to invest in investment investments, and the demand for investment loans is significantly lower in earlier periods. Therefore, in the existing environment, business entities are careful to plan long-term investment or to launch new investment projects while business banks state as a reason there is no quality projects. So these are facts that we cannot escape from, no matter what political option they belong to. And now let's say something about the model and just because of the fact, because of Croatian citizens. Therefore, out of the total appropriations of 2 billion 829 million HBOR's approved quota was a billion 131 million. The amount of credit to business banks is a billion 697 million. So, 2 billion 829 million were granted for trade-offs through model A. So, I'm talking about those who applied for those loans, and not that someone else pushed them was 618, the number of approved applications 594, practically all the requests for credit were granted those twenty credits which were not granted, but I say 594 entrepreneurs got this loan. And today's debate tells us that we need to talk here about some facts, that we can't hide before these facts. We can fight again after a few months that this guy did this, or this guy didn't do it, but if we're not gonna tell the truth today, and if we're not gonna talk about some old people openly, then that justification that something happened or didn't happen, about the fact that the governor of the CNB did something one way or another simply won't help. The first and basic fact is the structure of the Croatian economy. So from what I quote about HBOR and business banks, it's clear that except for a few large ones of these medium and small ones, they simply didn't dare invest in crisis times. However, what is crucial if we want these models to succeed then all those involved in this process must make a full contribution and there must be no fig in the pocket. Why? Because when business banks and that model, and even when talking about this model, they keep a light figure in their pocket, and in principle they're trying to take their own risk with those high-risk placements, they don't have a problem with the placement of well-being companies, they don't need any guarantee from the state. They'll find a model that they'll lend to that committee. However, the problem is that companies that do not stand well or have enough funds or are undercapitalised and that business banks must show far greater interest and must show far greater risk because the banking sector has never been as liquid and has not had as much credit as it has today. Because let's not forget that according to this model A the loans of these 594 loans are set at an interest rate between 4.13 and 4.8% depending on what auction they've made. Now someone can say, well it's not that, but let's look at what the interest rate was at that point these business entities could have gotten if it wasn't for that model A. Most of those who got credit per model A could've been very difficult to talk about the interest rate credit below 7 or 7.5%. So when we put together these two absolute amounts, then we see basically how much that model A helped entrepreneurs. So also when we talk about bank activity in this model, here are now two options. One is giving credit to the state guarantee and another is the possibility agreed independently on by the state and ultimately we are pleased as ruling foreigners as well as the ruling coalition that the central bank has joined this renewed model B project and has given the banking sector the opportunity, independently of any auctions around something, to place 6 billion 300 million entrepreneurs at a lower interest rate. And we welcome that. And we can't possibly see that the governor did something behind Vlad's back or did this. The governor is only part of the banks' funds that are currently at the central bank, that reserve is a 20% foreign exchange at some interest, I don't know if they get 0.25% fired at all so they can place it at an interest rate of 4 or 5%. So who's there in principle for the win? Business banks, because they don't get anything for that money right now. By firing the central bank, they'll be able to place them on the market and get the money. Therefore, it depends on what interest rate they will reach, how willing they will be to take risks and how ready they will be to support certain projects. However, we will also not say that and we will not admit it, because the opposition to the government's criticism of measures of economic recovery and of actions or inactions will not admit that it is practically with the beginning of the financial crisis because of the fear that it will happen with large companies that have received loans from business banks, whether high-quality placements will at some point become risky simply credit activity has died in Croatia. And the problem was how to encourage this credit activity of banks, how to even put them in a position to invest the funds. However, when I'm also talking about getting a business bank, then you need to see the structure that makes that profit so you'll see that in these last years, two are seen from the structure and get that the credit activity of the business banks is dead. So what we have at this point in Croatia, we have a very high liquidity of the banking sector, unfortunately we have a very weak business sector initiative out of fear, from this or from that and simply and this proposal from the government, this new law and the Central Bank proposal are going towards making these two things change and in such a way that you cannot force the entrepreneur to invest. If he doesn't make an assessment that he's going to do something with a particular project, you can't force him to do it. You can give it to him I don't know what conditions, he's just not going to risk it because look, interest is just a small part of what needs to be returned. Because if he's not sure that this project will succeed he'll give it, pawn some of his assets as a basis for repaying the loan, and he's not sure he's gonna make it. And exactly the model of this government is going to encourage entrepreneurs, because the government can't do some things, the government can only create preconditions. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill. Another old man, it's not good to keep getting some kind of conflict between the Central Bank and the government because they just don't exist. I can't see by anything that this proposal from the governor to release the story is not compatible with this proposal from the government. I think they're going to make a great complement and they're going to want to talk irrationally to those who like to talk about rational things. They're going to open their eyes and they're going to see that there's a problem in some other bush, not where it's said, and that those who want to make money on capital in times of crisis must, together with the state, have their backs planted to create the preconditions that these funds are being placed because if they don't plant their backs together with the state, I'm afraid they might find it very difficult to place these assets they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70253	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70254	I am correcting the inaccuracy of the opposition to admit what is good in this bill and I am using the opportunity to warn of a flat-rate and easy-out of numbers on the other side of my colleagues. Please, the Employment Service, right now I've printed it, it's got accurate data. '99. In December 31st, unemployment in Croatia was registered to 341730 people. In 2003, when she left the government 318000, 2010, 319000, so it's more registered now than it was then. I warn you, take it and look at the data, I warn you that 150 thousand people then worked, didn't receive any pay, and that's why it really happened in our term of office because of the bankruptcy that had to start at one point in 2000, the figure almost came to 395 thousand. Please, great effort has been made...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70255	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70256	Don't underestimate that data, they're who they are and don't abuse them and use them for cheap politicization.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70257	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the violation of Article 209, a colleague, Vidovic, was correcting something that I didn't speak of at all. We can open the subject of unemployment, but then registered and polling unemployment. We can't compare pears and apples. You remember as minister of social care and changed the methodology for registering the unemployed and thus eliminated 30 thousand from the stock market. So if we want to talk about the data then we need to methodologically bring them down to the same level and then we can discuss it, if we want to discuss it well on purpose. If we don't want to, then we can discuss it this way. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70259	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70260	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Shucker's incorrect claim that some want to constantly cause some conflict between the CNB and the government. Well, there's no conflict or anyone was talking about it. There is no conflict, the CNB simply expressed its belief in the incompetence of this government because it did not communicate with the government, did not communicate with the ministry, but communicated with employers and banks totally past the government, as if the government in Croatia were ordinary citizens waiting from the media to see what someone would do. So imagine this situation. In Croatia something happens, CNB 6.3 billion kunas release capital on the market, and the government like all other citizens read it from the newspapers and then reacts with a statement and says well, we are still satisfied with what the CNB has done. It's not the CNB with you in conflict, it's the message that sends you a very clear message. You didn't do anything, because of you, we're in trouble, we need to try something self-initiative right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70261	Comrade Maras, that's not a correction to the quote, not anything like that. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the article was injured in 209 for a simple reason, I wasn't talking about monetary policy. Dear Maras, you should know what you are now saying that it belongs to the monetary policy sphere, and you should also know that according to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian National Bank has a very high degree of independence, its independence and you should know that this move by colleagues of Rohatinski is going in this direction. However, some things need to be known so that we can comment on something.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70263	At 11,42, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. HDSSB representative club, MP Dinko Buric. Here you go. ... What, colleague Grubisic? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And who said final? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I say on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70264	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. In the opening part of the proposal by the legislators of this law, it is stated, among other things, that the purpose of this law is to overcome the difficulties in the economy and eliminate the negative effects of the global crisis on the Croatian economy and so far, a number of such measures have been taken. But what does this bill offer compared to previous measures? Here are some differences between the measures so far and the new proposal of this law. Prior guarantees were issued for loans aimed at financing new investments and completing already started investments, crafts and reprogramming loans agreed after 1 July 2008, and no reprogramming of old loans is possible with the new bill. According to the old guarantee law for individual credit could amount to up to 50% of the principal amount of the loan, but no more than 60 million kuna, and the new proposal could guarantee a maximum of 30% of the principal amount of the loan, but no more than 50 million kuna. According to Article 8 of the new law, loans are intended to finance new investments and to complete the investments already launched, including financing of the necessary crafts and to be granted for at least 20 months and up to 15 years. According to the old one, there was also the possibility of reprogramming loans contracted after 1 July 2008 and were given for a period of at least 3 years to a maximum of 10 years other than credit for the financing of crafts that could be granted for a period of less than 3 years and could be partially settled and liabilities to the State. The new law does not know. Article 15 of the new law discusses the invitation of the HBOR to submit bids to guarantee quotas banks, while the old law refers to the invitation of banks to auction. The intention of this law on paper is probably good. But we are not sure what results will be obtained especially when we consider what spectacular results this government has led to today's economic development of Croatia. For the citizens of Croatia, it would probably be better to stop getting us out of the crisis, because attempts are similar to those when we fall into the living mud and when the worst thing you can do is to squirm and sink deeper and deeper. And Croatia sees a ton of fungi every day more and more deeper. Today, therefore, we are proposing a law that should be an improvement in measures so far and all to promote economic development. And all measures should be taken for economic recovery. But how economic development in the direction of this government seems to be best depicted by already well - known examples. So, the robbery that struck Croatian citizens and 335 000 unemployed and still 80,000 who work and do not receive wages, and here is the bitter people who, after this government has thrown them out of work, are now on the streets of more and more frequent and more mass protests justly seeking to relocate this government from the Ban Courts. What it looks like is economic development from Slavonia and Baranja's perspective is a special story. It is known that Slavonia and Baranja were once the richest and most developed region. Today, the poorest and most underdeveloped part of the Republic of Croatia, a place that once came in search of a better life, has become an area from which young people leave in search of work. The villages are getting deserter, and schools are getting more empty, and there are peasants, instead of in the fields, more and more on the roads. Workers instead of factories on desks or strike. Slavonia and Baranja are made up of five counties. We keep saying we make 20% of the population and 20% of the territory. A balanced development of Croatia would mean that the state budget in Slavonia and Baranja is expected to be at least 20% of investment funds each year to avoid falling further behind other parts of Croatia, and to catch up with them it is clear that much more investment is needed. And what is the real situation, and what is the relationship of the central state government to Slavonia and Baranja, we have already spoken many times in the assembly. How else to describe the fact rather than the embarrassing fact that in the state budgets of Croatia in these last few years, there is one at the already mentioned capital aid position and capital investment of €39.3 billion for Slavonia and Baranja instead of the corresponding 20%, which would amount to 7.8 billion kuna Slavonia and Baranja received a billion and 800 million kuna or 4 and a half percent. Only in this division has it been cut off by more than six billion kunas. So how come not only do not fall behind other parts of Croatia anymore, let alone reach them to a degree of development. That's how it's been all these years. And how's it going today? Last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented to Croatia a plan to exit the growing and deeper crisis in a document known as investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Thirty, or exactly 30 investment projects worth as much as 13.8 billion euros were presented. This kind of plan really should have prompted the faith of all in Croatia to have hope of salvation. But what hope that plan has brought to Slavonia and Baranja. Of the 30 projects that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja are almost nowhere to be found. In fact, she's only mentioned with one so-called. The project, which has already appeared for the fourth time every fourth year before the elections of the famous and phantom channel Dunav - Sava. So out of 30 projects of interest for Croatia Slavonia and Baranja is represented only with so-called a project that has become a synonym for the upcoming elections. And if, by some miracle, a project to build this 61 and a halfkm long channel for which it takes 10 years to begin to realise again is a terrible knowledge of the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja. Of the 13.8 billion euros in total worth of investments that Croatia needs to draw from the crisis for the whole of Slavonia and Baranja, which accounts for a fifth of the population and a fifth of the territory, only 950m euros for this channel or, more specifically, 6.88% of the total. This is not an even development of the Republic of Croatia for us. There are those who will say and Croatia is divided into three statistical regions and cannot be viewed only by Slavonia and Baranja separately. We agree, but the analysis shows very much the same again. The division of Croatia into three statistical regions implies division in northwestern Croatia, which accounts for 37.38% of the population, in the Adriatic Croatia, which accounts for 32.16% of the population and in the Pannonian Croatia, which accounts for 30.46% of the population, including the current five Slavonian-Baranja counties and three other counties. Of the 13.8 billion euros in government investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia, 3.378 billion euros is related to anglomeration projects, irrigation together across the Republic of Croatia. The remaining slightly less than 10 and a half billion euros relate to projects specific to individual units of local self-government, county or region. Of that, 37.38% of north-west Croatia envisions a total investment of 51.32% or 5.37 billion euros, respectively. For the Adriatic Croatia, which accounts for 32.16%, 3,84 billion euros or 36.66% and for the Pannonian Croatia, which accounts for 30.12% of the population, only 12.02% of investments or a billion and 259 billion euros are foreseen. We are not really jealous of anyone in Croatia, but what is not fair is not fair. And how long? And those who like to say that we are leading a policy of conflict with central government, and that Slavonia and Baranja are therefore in such a position I must remind myself again of one fact. Of the 5 Slavonia-Baranja counties in 4 is in HDZ, only one in Osijek-Baranja in power is not HDZ but HDSSB. Both according to the latest indicators in the development of Slavonia-Baranja Countys, the three most underdeveloped counties in all of Croatia are those in which HDZ – Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavonska are in power. The 16th place is Virovitica-Podravska, and only one where the HDZ is not in power, allegedly leading the conflict policy with the central state government, and in fact just looking for what belongs to it, it is 12th. These days we also witness justified protests, not only of Slavonians, but farmers of all parts of Croatia. Instead of in the fields, tractors are on the roads, thanks to the politics of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Peasant requirements are well-known to Minister Cobankovic, peasants are demanding payment of incentives in full until March 31st, payment of outstanding capital investments, reprogramming loans, lower starting price of land and blue diesel, legalisation of agricultural facilities for which farmers do not have a building permit and other documents, and finally adoption of a strategy for agricultural production. What is particularly not good is the fact that the minister of agriculture, with its promised but also unfulfilled arrival among the protesters, is further raising tensions among the peasants who are bitter about the situation in which they are brought by the government's policy. There is no hearing, nor is there any reason for protesters to wake up at night in the open, with a night temperature of minus 7 degrees Celsius to prove misunderstanding about the size of their problem, and the statement by Minister Cobankovic that he does not understand why peasants protest then does not need to be specifically or commented. Mr. Minister, the villagers are out there because they don't have better jobs, I guess, or because they're crazy about being on the road and freezing instead of being in their warm beds. They're protesting to be as relaxed as possible, because today it's fashionable, at least ruling, and how well they live maybe the best way to speak is to change a single-transport tractor for a cleaning woman's place on Mark's square. And given everything that has happened in Croatia in recent years, it is necessary to seriously consider establishing another fund to encourage the recovery of the Croatian economy. The same should, by force, be filled with HDZ, from state funds that have been robbed by their own people. And given the level of robbery and the amount of black money, this fund would probably be incomparably richer than this guarantee fund we're discussing today. And finally, although neither the agriculture minister wants to appear at a meeting with the villagers, nor does the prime minister want to respond to the Croatian Parliament's call, the HDSSB believes that talks and negotiations must be discussed. We HDSSB representatives know that we do not support the way this government works, nor do we ignore the Prime Minister's attitude towards this highest representative and legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, and we have our own opinion on it, and we do not agree with almost anything the Prime Minister does and says, but one is a person and the other is the duty that this person is acting. In spite of all this, I must stress, and out of respect for the duties of the HDZ, some other opposition parties will respond to an invitation to meet with opposition parties and the president of the state and the Prime Minister, clearly if such a call comes. It's precisely so that you can face it clearly, and not only by means of the media, you can say what we object to this government, and why we feel we need to leave power as soon as possible. Just because of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Because in our opinion, while this government is at the head of the state, despite all the guarantee funds, there is no economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. With all the shortcomings in this proposal ahead of us, the HDSSB club will support this proposal, because better than nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70265	Two corrections. First, Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70266	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Buric, here's since you're really standing up for Slavonia, not certainly more than I want, and all the other MPs who come from Slavonia. I'm correcting your incorrect quote when you say there's more and more peasants. That's not true. That's not true. I've done an analysis with people I know, I don't go to those environments where I don't know people, they're not peasants, they're the ones that are being manipulated. And your party and one, I don't know you because Mr. Grubisic was on... So whoever supports those people who got the incentives and you've seen all these years they've been getting, capital investments... [[You don't understand.]] other activities. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So it's incorrect for peasants to come out. Only there are leaders, manipulators who manipulate people and who convince people of something that is not true. And the real peasants are at home with their family, and they say we've never been better at livestock, milking than we are today. Mato Kovacevic in Pleternica, please ask him, call him and ask him if I'm telling the truth, or if I'm telling a lie. That's the man who pronounces it in that dictionary. And don't manipulate people because it's not true what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70267	Okay. Yeah, two injuries. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70268	Mr. Vice President, I will, unlike you, state an article on which, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is Article 209. My name Mr. Buric didn't mention it absolutely, so I think I have the right to do this. ... Yes, I've been to Ferovec and I'll be Mr. Lucic again, unlike you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, I've been to Ferovec, and I'll always be with the peasants who protest. They've been waiting for you, too, Mr. Lucic, so you haven't come.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70269	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70270	Shame on you, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70271	Thank you very much. This is nothing, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because your name is mentioned. If a representative mentioned the name of another representative, it would mean a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Oh, no, you don't. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. How a person is in violation of the Rules of Procedure according to articles 1 to 269 and even transitional and final provisions. I'm not going to comment on what you said. You're the best person to say everything about yourself and HDZ politics. You insulted those peasants, and those who are at home, and those who are out on the roads, it's wonderful that you realize that you've never eaten better. It's really unnecessary to comment on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70273	It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Finance Minister Martina Dalic. Here you go, Minister. I'm sorry, he still had, excuse me before he corrected Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct my counterpart Buric's incorrect allegations, who said the agriculture minister does not want to appear at a meeting with the villagers. That's not true. A colleague, Agriculture Minister Cobankovic called a meeting yesterday with representatives of all associations from Croatia and the largest number of Croatian associations came to the meeting, they represent the largest number of agricultural producers from Croatia and that is the way the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Cobankovic works. So it's not true, and my colleague Lucic mentions a Ferrovac, he didn't say one thing. So we know the guys who organized the protests there, the strangers they belong to, the way agriculture deals, how many countries they have and everything else about them. So protest organisers are famous figures belonging to a political party in Požega-Slavon County. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70275	Minister of Finance Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70276	Thank you very much. So I would like to look to the most important part of the debate that spoke about the success of the programme and the success of the various financial models that are made available to entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that the evaluation of the success of the financial programmes can, in fact, best be given by those who participated in these programmes or benefited from them. During 2010, 2.5 billion kunas were repeatedly noted, using the A-model entrepreneurs at an average rate of 4.95% at a time, which should not be forgotten, when interest rates in commercial banks were exceeding 10 or even more than 11%. The truth is also, said someone in today's debate, timing is in politics everything. The timing is also important in the economy. So other than the amount to be given is also important when given. These 2.5 billion kunas can be from model A, whether it is successful, whether it is unsuccessful, this can certainly be a political debate, but it has been used at a time when the interest rates in Croatia have been at its peak in the last maybe 10 years. It is also worth noting that 2 auctions were held under the A+ model, that the demand at these auctions was significant despite the announcements that there will be no interest, that there are no ones to be placed. The first two auctions show that it is not so, that interest exists. Which means that these funds will also get real economic effects. And that's the interest that's lower than what's been so far. Therefore, I would like to conclude a lot of objections and discussions are also made on whether the government is working, whether the government is not working. It may be a logical nonsens because I do not know what we are discussing here because this is a proposal proposed by the Croatian Parliament for adoption just to strengthen and strengthen a set of financial programmes available to entrepreneurs to support economic recovery. Of course, what is also true in this whole story is that the availability of financial resources, the level of interest rates is not the only crucial element of recovery or investment climate. The investment climate also requires the safety of investment, demand and ability of entrepreneurs to look at the overall picture of their projects. This is why what is done is important and the process of negotiations is important and the process of their rapid and quality completion is important in the way that the Government does it daily and speeds up their dynamics. It is precisely because the process will put Croatia in a completely different economic sphere, in a completely different economic position. So then the question of the investment climate, the question of investment security, the question of the investment perspective will be and will be possible to consider them in a completely different context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70277	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70278	Dear Vice President, I would first of all appeal to my colleagues and colleagues here in the Parliament and invite all of us to stop dealing with what happened. What was yesterday or a year ago, five or ten years ago. Let's try to find out how the citizens are going to survive today and how they're going to live tomorrow. I think it's much more important. History cannot be corrected, history can only be described and analyzed, possibly learning from it. But I think we need to talk about what's going to happen today, how to survive today and how to survive tomorrow or how to live better tomorrow. As counterpart Maras said, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. What we'd like, if we can have the debate done by the end of the debate, is some of the analysis. Unfortunately, the written text we received did not contain this analysis of which was spoken by fellow Shuker, which is why the current model B was not successful enough, i.e. why it did not give sufficient expected results. So that's one of the analyses we expected to get from the bill. What would also be good to see, there are several local guarantee schemes, to see how these local guarantee schemes work and what effects the local guarantee schemes have achieved, or where these local schemes have had problems and why they have not resulted in the effect that was expected. Furthermore, what we certainly think is very important if we are to achieve a certain goal both in investment and in some other matters is a question of indivisibility. I think we should definitely get an analysis of Croatia's indifference and even if it is possible to find a solution to how to solve this individence. No liquidity resolution, no investment cycle. So that's something that's a prerequisite for any investment. This law has its absolute time limit. He's a year away. It's April 30th next year. Now, I hope the government knows that, how much today we have a request to issue permits to build certain investments. Because if we don't have a single request today or if we don't have any construction permits today, then it's very hard to expect that significant funds will be withdrawn from this guarantee fund, the Guarantee Fund, because the simple process of issuing permits for, designing and issuing building permits has its own time scale. So after that, when you go to the bank, it has its own time scale and the question of whether or not this project can be realized is because it simply needs to be designed and defined and projected. As far as I know, it's not exactly some kind of break-in on the license offices with new investments, so they're waiting there to wait for these investment projects. What I consider to be the greatest flaw in this explanation is a general declaration of the objective of the proposed model. Therefore, it is said that the proposed model aims to strengthen the potential of entrepreneurs to launch an investment project to ensure the source of funding for sustainable investment projects. It's a little bit of a contradiction in itself. Sustainable investment projects will be supported by banks without this Guarantee Fund. But it also suggests perhaps until the end of this debate, and certainly in all the next proposals that the government will face before MPs and the public to specify the objective. This objective must have concrete figures. We should say the government's goal is to keep so many jobs as a result of this law's activities, because we expect that they will be completed and that so many investment started and that we will keep so many jobs, perhaps in the construction industry, perhaps in another industry. And secondly, our goal is to open so many and so many jobs with this law. Because we're not going to have any of that if we're going to boost the potential of entrepreneurs to start investments. Our goal must be concrete, and so must we who make some promises, as well as citizens, get used to having concrete goals and can also control whether any law or measure has had an effect or has had no effect. What is the situation today in Croatia says, for example, that the index of the physical volume of production today is 13% lower than it would have been three years ago. So one question is raised here, are we ready to strengthen the potential or provide guarantees for any investment that will be sustainable. For example, very concretely, are we ready to give a guarantee from this fund to an entrepreneur who will build a warehouse for imported goods, because this raises the question of what we achieve. Is this how we achieve the strength of the national economy and the national economy? Will we still give and be ready to provide guarantees that absolutely go for such things as reducing domestic production or substituting domestic production? So these are questions that would be good to answer. In my view, it should even strengthen this Investment Guarantee Fund, which goes to the opening of production jobs and then strengthen this Guarantee Fund with some other measures that create a much greater obstacle to entrepreneurs than, for example, the lack of capital or guarantees in order to obtain credit for the realization of their investment. Gentlemen, one of the huge obstacles to investment is the water contribution. You, when you build a volume hall for production, and the production and storage facilities for that production are voluminosic therefore have a large volume, you have to cost a huge amount of water contribution funds that very often exceed the total amount of interest you have to pay for the loan you're going to raise to realize that investment. So let's go if that's the situation, if I'm giving a guarantee to an entrepreneur who has to borrow to pay a water contribution to say, look if you're building a production investment, you're opening 10, 20, 30 jobs, or you won't have to pay a water contribution. The second question is the electricity power involved. In order to open a particular drive or to realise a particular investment, you must purchase power from electricity. It's a thousand and seven hundred and ninety with a VAT, or somewhere below a thousand thousand pounds per kilowatt. That's huge. Imagine an entrepreneur who needs 200 or 300 kilowatts of hired power, because to produce de facto so much he needs. He must borrow to pay several million kuna for the force involved so that he can realise that investment. So let's give him a measure in which the state will deliver him this committed force, because in the end HEP, as far as I know, is state-owned. But we tell him on the one hand, look, we're gonna give you a guarantee fund up to that much I don't know as much as 50 million kuna, and then when you recalculate that much VAT, that's how much he has to pay for the water contribution, that's how much he has to pay for the communal contribution, that's how much he has to pay for the electricity. Then what did we do to him? So some entrepreneurs don't even need a guarantee fund if we can help them realize it ourselves. And finally, at this point we have a million 381 thousand 676 jobs in Croatia or something less because the data is 12 months last year. We have over 300 thousand unemployed, we have a million 200 thousand pensioners, we have about 250 thousand people in the public sector. Gentlemen, we need to see how to get to 2 million jobs, not compete when at any point there were more or less unemployed. So it's important that every measure has a very concrete effect in saying we're going to open one but then guarantee it and make sure that we open that particular job. And we need hundreds of thousands of jobs if we want public finances and the state to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70279	Thank you. Two corrections one replica. First Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, with a lot of things Mr. Mršić was talking about, I can agree with that. However, I would like to say one of the key provisions, and that is the inaccuracies that you have made, this law and the last one, that politics has no interference in giving guarantees. So, let's not give us guarantees, and in your debate, you said several times, let's give a guarantee, let's give a guarantee. So the business banks are applying to an auction conducted by the HBOR, so we wanted to eliminate any pressure. And what you're saying about opening jobs, you've entered the support sphere. It's just not this. And finally, the water contribution is different for different economic branches, and therefore the rules are not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70281	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to counterpart Mršić, the entrepreneur needs to raise several million credits to pay 100, 200 or 300 kilowatts of the electricity force. That's not true, pal. One kilowatt of electricity costs 1650 kuna, 100 kilowatts cost 165000 kuna, 200 times 2. So that's not even close to the millions you're talking about and the cost an entrepreneur has for those purposes. You were also talking about a water contribution, that the state should free the entrepreneurs of the water contribution. I'm surprised you didn't mention a communal contribution in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, including your city. You can free my city, for example, completely entrepreneurs who build production plants, communal contributions, and thus give one incentive...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70283	Okay. That's an additional explanation already. Please proceed to the debate immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are a few words on the proposal for a law on the Guarantee Fund to encourage economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70285	Excuse me, Mr. Lesar. Excuse me, colleague Hushka. He's got a replica. Mr. Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70286	I accept your apology, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mršić, you mentioned the problem of paying for the power force involved. That's a very good guess. I'll quote a statement from the minister who said that an American potential investor left Croatia when he realized that if he wanted to build a factory he must build a trans-station so that he could get everything and power connection that later becomes the property of HEP if I'm not mistaken. We are now offering a state guarantee to the investor to build a trafostation to get electricity and offer him interest on the loan and in Article 9. The law stipulates that it can also be shown in some foreign currency, so here we introduce a foreign exchange clause. Everyone says that the Croatian financial market is euroised anyway, so I don't understand why the government hasn't already decided, if the foreign exchange clause is legalized in this law to be just the euro, not to say Swiss or some other currency. And as for the water contribution, we have done great help in employment in Croatia and the development of the economy when we have excluded only golf courses from the obligation to pay for the water contribution if you remember. That, in my memory, is the only investment where the water contribution is not paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70287	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70288	So, colleague Lesar, you're not wrong, so you really need to buy the hired power and you need to pay in advance and not only do you have to build a trafoscat if you need to, for example, megawat so you build a megawat trafoss station, but you have to build a megawat substation. For example, if you need 100 kilowatts, and there is no net to your plot to do it and then you have to build a megawatt and then it's not 170 and 150 thousand kuna as some here count, but then it's a million and a half that you have to invest and that you teach to HEP. You built a megawatt of the hired force, which the HEP then sold 900 kilowatts to someone else again at 1500 kuna per kilowatt, so that's what this is about. But I'm sorry that the corrections don't get back into what I've been calling for, so let's try to suggest something that's going to be, and don't get me working on those jobs every day that it's not something that it is. And I also mentioned a communal contribution, read it in a phonogram, and now I'm going to tell you that the city on which I'm headed is completely free of the municipal contribution of entrepreneurs investing in production jobs, even more than it gives a certain amount of employed electricity that we've had to buy from HEP, expensively buy from HEP because for us as a local self-government, that current costs a kilowatt of 1790 kuna because we can't get a cut back. And only through the VAT that we paid for the equipment of entrepreneurship zones paid only to the state budget more than we received from the state budget as an incentive for those same zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70289	And Mr. Representative Davor Huška, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, I'm going to say something about the very proposal for a guarantee fund law so I can use the place and time to say something to my colleague Mršić about this debate. This proposal sets up a Million kuna Guarantee Fund, as we heard from Ms. Minister, for the purpose of encouraging new and completing already started investment projects. The guarantees from this fund are designed to strengthen the potential of entrepreneurs to launch and implement investment projects with the aim of alleviating the impact of the global crisis on the Croatian economy. This measure strengthens the ability of entrepreneurs to provide sources of funding for sustainable investment projects. The measure is managed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will publicly call on banks to participate in the fund by dividing guarantee quotas by business banks. On the basis of the guarantee quota, a single bank for sustainable investment projects will receive guarantees from the Republic of Croatia. Guarantees shall be granted exclusively for investment projects for which there is adequate but insufficient insurance. In the event that banks stand behind an investment project, the same project will support a guarantee from the fund of up to 30% of the principal loan that the banks are willing to grant, i.e. to give a maximum of 50 million kuna per investment project. The duration of this measure was proposed on 30 April 2012. This is essentially a measure that serves to strengthen the insufficient guarantee potential of entrepreneurs, and we know that entrepreneurs often have good investment projects, good ideas, but do not have enough insurance instruments, do not have enough value of the property they offer for the mortgages for the guarantee, do not have enough of their own participation, and in that case, if it works of course on a well-rated project, the Guarantee Fund will stand behind entrepreneurs. This is essentially one way to share the risk between the business bank, between the state and, of course, the entrepreneur that is the investor in this case. And in the event of difficulties in paying off credit, the bank's claims from other insurance instruments will first be charged, and eventually from the State Guarantee Fund. This law, in combination with a series of measures already in place in the Economic Recovery Programme, is secured by funding in the HBOR for a whole series of credit lines and with measures and programmes published by the Ministry of Economy in recent days, should facilitate entrepreneurs to invest and implement entrepreneurship projects. There's a significant local environment, for what? Because it can through organised institutional support, entrepreneurship centres, entrepreneurial incubators, technology parks and other measures through regulated economic zones, good municipal infrastructure, relief in the construction of production plants. In the first place, I think of the already mentioned municipal contribution can help entrepreneurs realise the entrepreneurial project. There have been discussions here about these opportunities of the local community, including some of the other costs that entrepreneurs have, so I'm going to say a few words. According to my field knowledge, in this story I've spent the past 15 years HEP has been building trafostations, if necessary, if there are enough interested people to buy and pay for the electricity. It's a situation that happens in cities, in municipalities, in the area of our county where I come from, and it mostly happened in that way. Furthermore, we are able to use all the programmes of the Ministry of Economy to edit the municipal infrastructure in the economic areas, and so also to co-finance the possible construction of the power grid, i.e. co-finance the construction of a trafo facility that at the first moment does not have as many users as you say, because it can also be agreed on by the marginal payment of the commitment of the engaged power power plant to buy the necessary electricity. So you can use funds and the Ministry of Economy, you can pay in meals towards Croatia's electricity industry. And if there are enough potential users and electricity power engaged who are willing to pay for the hired power hep builds trafostations on its cost. That's what they use means the leaders of local units that work, build zones along with the Ministry of Economy, and it's good to know the others. Because these are the opportunities offered by the state budget through the Ministry of Economy and Croatia's electricity programmes thus helping to develop the economy in cities and municipalities, quality regulation of municipal infrastructure, and, of course, electricity in the economic areas first. Here's so much about this debate that's been about the possibilities of forgiveness and reduction, it means some expenses, and I think that unit of local self-government has a very large role to play right through the way you do, and I'm glad that it is in the city that you're in charge of. It is similar, that is, in my city and in many others where we give up our communal contribution as the income of local self-government units, we give this amount to entrepreneurs all with the aim of building production suitable in the first place because they have a 100% release of the municipal contribution at least in the case of my work. And of course, as many of our fellow citizens as possible are employed. I believe that this guarantee fund law will also lead to such activities and that is why I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70291	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70292	Thank you very much. Comrade Huška, you have said that local units contribute to investment projects and that is good for every praise to any local self-government and local unit that does so. But there are also those who do not. However, the investment cycle, investment projects can be stimulated, can only stimulate economic activity, and they depend not only on the local unit. This is the problem everyone looks at from their own corner. HEP looks from its corner, Croatian waters from its corner, local units from its corner, investors from its corner, municipal companies from its corner. And if there's not one whole, unique approach effect won't be the one expected. It's a waste if individuals just participate in it. If we are to encourage a truly large investment cycle, then there is nothing in the state that the HEP requires the force used at 1,600 kn per kilowatt without anyone starting the investment. For a certain period, but it should take a whole national decision, to free everyone for, say, the next two years and HEP and water and municipal compensation, all to release those who will invest. That's the only thing that can trigger it. It will return tenfold through employees and economic activity. But today Croatia prevents investment which is the most expensive location and construction permit in Europe, sometimes more expensive than an investment project. The construction of the entire investment is cheaper than the building permit and therefore there is no construction, and there is no effect either. For example, as it comes from HEP building a substation on other people's land, this one has to pay for construction instead of just paying for the connection. And then HEP owns that substation on other people's land, and then the investor has a situation where he got a construction license, but 30 years ago, the water line gave a water line to his land and won't move it now and that... Because he tells the investor to pay, and then we move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't encourage investment in Croatia like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70293	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70294	Thank you. You said a lot of things. They can agree with one part, which is that there must be a network of measures from the highest to the lowest level. We on the ground from city to city, from municipality to municipality are going with certain measures at the expense of our budget revenues we give up our municipal contribution, we give up part of the municipal fee, we give away literally land in economic areas just to encourage investment activities. These measures are not unique. I don't know if they have two cities, two municipalities in Croatia that have the same measures. It's quite unequal, but these are local ways to attract entrepreneurs to certain cities, certain municipalities. Of course, from the state level, we get certain guidelines and opportunities to help entrepreneurs through the Ministry of Economy that I have to say that it has perfected its programs that it has placed towards entrepreneurs, according to local self-government units. Here's an example for you just this year. By the end of February, all measures were announced in early March, all competitions are on the ground. So, within the next month until 31.3. is the deadline for running certain projects. We can prepare project candidacy and we, cities, municipalities and entrepreneurs and in time enter the Ministry of Economy. 7.8, 10 years ago, the measures were published in June and there was no theory in that calendar year to spend the money. As the funds are approved, while the tender is being opened, while the investment in the zone is being signed with the contractor, it simply was not possible to spend the funds. So it's getting better. In time, the economy ministry puts measures on the ground, units of local self-government have an increasing range of incentives towards entrepreneurs through projects that they can encourage in their own areas. But there needs to be another synergy with everyone else, with Croatian water-related waters, with Croatia's electricity-related electricity price, and we hear these different models of financing the construction of trafostations, to put all of this together under one cap and then we have all the same conditions, both colleagues in Koprivnica, Zagreb, and Varazdin, and Pakrac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70295	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70296	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, Huška, I would agree with you, when we talk about this economy, then it is indeed the goal of any local self-government to help every investor as effectively as possible, especially those who start with their own activity, because without the support of local self-government surely cannot achieve those economic goals that you have essentially drawn out. So this support of cities, especially cities, we are only talking about the cities that are in Požega-Slavon County, therefore the town of Pakrac, and the town of Pleternica, and we are really doing exactly what we were talking about as units of local self-government, but we are not doing it because we would like it just because it is worth it to us, because other cities and larger cities are exclusively charging and contributing and communal compensation, but we are also forced, but we are also attracting all entrepreneurs to come to such a small environment, because our goal is to employ all those people who are unemployed in our territory. It is this new Act on the Guarantee Fund for the Encouragement and Development of the Economy that will give an additional wind in the back to all those who show economic activity, especially those who have quality projects. I therefore absolutely agree that the units of local self-government are crucial to support, in addition to these projects offered by the Government through their programmes, because then it is not only the Guarantee Fund Act, but it is also the support of local self-government that further encourages this economy to survive, that is, to succeed in its intention. So I congratulate all those, and especially those small units of local self-government, as I have told those who need and obligation to adapt to every new investor, and I am sure then there will be new employment and all that is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70297	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70298	... You come from a city that works hard and develops economic zones, and stimulates the economy and as many economic operators in our zones as possible. [[Specially enabled.]] Unfortunately, in Croatia, we are not all in the same situation, in less developed areas, in the war of the affected areas, obviously we need to invest far more energy to get investors to Pleternica, in Pakrac, in Benkovac, it is not the same situation as in Koprivnica, Varazdin, Čakovec, where investors are much easier to agree, and where local self-government units take significant municipal fees, significant municipal contributions, make large revenues to their budget, and therefore we have a priority in the use of state budget measures, the economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, and the Ministry of Regional Development, to bring your Planernica, and my Pakrac with other more developed cities in Croatia. I didn't say another thing that the state is working towards entrepreneurs, or cities. Millions of square meters, tens of square kilometers have been donated to cities for the development of economic zones, and this is one special form of incentives for the state where we get free land for the regulation of economic zones, for the development of entrepreneurship, and I believe that this is exactly one way to say that we are also more underdeveloped, war-suffering cities and municipalities in the field of special state care as soon as possible in our development with all others. If I didn't have an economic zone today in Pakrac, I don't know where 400 people working today in the economic zone would work, and a hundred people working in an entrepreneurial incubator in Pakrac, and these are indicators that these measures by the Ministry of Economy give good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70299	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Secretary of State. Here I am pleased, dear colleagues and colleagues, that this proposal for the Guarantee Fund Act here for parliamentary speakers is getting positive criticism, and it is doubtless one of the measures of economic recovery. But it was very interesting and a debate here today on the subject, so allow me before I tell you about the law another two, three observations, about what affects the promotion of a positive economic climate in the space and in the time in which we are. Today, no one mentioned the facts and regardless of the recession that in certain cities and municipalities the basis of the sale of companies, where Croatia no doubt entered the war, and in the new capital a good part of the companies was sold to foreigners, because they gave money and secured themselves through certain contracts that over a few years they would not fire workers, and after that because of the international division they were working and the competitions closed the plant in Zapresic for ceramics, because the Spanish state in which they owned it, and all the molds in Spain, the market remained, there was no production. Either with friends in Koprivnica, in the production of yeast, or in many other environments elsewhere in Croatia, due to the new conditions of market business, there goes production, the market remains. It didn't mention it, and it's a relevant fact, which speaks in favour of such facts as I have now made significant contributions, so I dare say and reduce jobs because it's just like that. Furthermore, what I particularly want to say is that in the context of everything that makes the community in the programmes, we are very often recognized as a state as bad for investment, so there are many reasons, and several times I have been in the situation that the investor will come into my city with money, so there is money and then the town is guilty, it is the municipality, it is the government's fault for not issuing a building permit, but, behold, we all sit down after 7 days at the table, and then we see that the projector is unconscious or conscious, and I ask that Mrs Dropulić hears me as a former minister who has done a lot of things in the context of spatial plans and conditions for, as well as a prerequisite for investment, the projector is nice somewhere on the border to create a project that potentially corresponds to the investor, but it is not in accordance with the law, he would not be guilty of this moment, and I would not turn to the project professions, but is worth to be mentioned as a problem which is a mattered investment and the first thing. Furthermore, when we talk about financial amounts as well as how this Guarantee Fund and who is involved in the attempt to help investors is not mentioned, and it is worth saying that a large part of the counties and cities are with, and today we are talking clearly about the fund, participated or participated with their funds primarily in subsidising interest. So is Zagreb County and part of the towns in Zagreb County, as well as the town of Zapresic. Even so, it helps to enable the investor, in a given moment, to make as much of an investment as possible. But I think it's worth mentioning something else that is one big problem, which is especially when it comes to investors who are not conglomerates, who are not huge systems, that there is a certain ignorance and in good wishes and intentions in certain investments that, after a certain time, tend to keep that investment going because they are simply not ready or sufficiently educated to bring such a project that is good and good and quality to the stage, and even the beginning of the realisation of the investment itself. It is also true when we talk about taxes from municipal contributions, from water contribution, from electricity charges, from electricity connections, sewers and water connections, that these are amounts that are not negligible and they are prescribed by law, but it is worth the finding and it is true that HEP must make trafostations, but it is the fact that these and such large electricity consumers each month give and pay large amounts for those currents that must be previously, so they themselves participate in the financing of construction. This is what I am saying in the context of some other measures that I can help, especially when it comes to larger and large investments, that in a certain way it is regulated otherwise so as not to tell a stimulating investor I would say in a few places, and when it comes to the same investment. It is worth mentioning and saying to the correct relations in Croatia, the electricity industry and the possibility of agreement and the payments in wars, so that I would not collapse the trees and stones in Croatia at this moment, but it is worth noting that when these total payments are summed up that these funds are generally not small. And that perhaps at the beginning, as a fundamental prerequisite of every investment, is spatial planning. And that's what the Croatian state has made an extremely big step when it comes to what kind of plans we have to bring and then, in local self-government, it actually made us act on it, and that's good. But, look at the wonders, in a good sense, when we want to put some space out of the agricultural land according to all the plans, and we do that, we put ourselves in a position where this land exists and people change their attitude and start blackmailing a lot with the sale of land. And yet I don't speak integrally, I speak from the practice that happens in life, people bought the land, we transferred after that to the construction zone, paid taxes. However, in order to create a communal infrastructure as a prerequisite for this development, I can no longer find the money to do so, and I have brought myself into trouble. So, we are going back to the Guarantee Fund Act, which is a good instrument for both the Government and banks, and above all, for the implementation of these measures, but it is definitely a fact, and this is seen from the part of the debate, that investment, above all, into new production and in-houses, depends on online different measures that only lead to joint synergy resulting in new investment in reality, and also ultimately lead to both prosperity and job creation. I will support the proposal of this Guarantee Fund Act to encourage economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70301	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. First.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70302	Thank you very much. A fellow Turk does not make sense that the investor is participating the construction of a trafo station. He also gave up land to pay for the construction of a trap station that will own HEP on his land. It doesn't make sense, nor is it economically justified. And it has a negative impact on investment. As it doesn't make sense that the power building permits where all the consent is given that the investor can't start building. And there are cases like that. Let the one who may have made a mistake in the procedure, rather than bearing the responsibility of the investor who has raised and the loan, pay huge interest and can not build for 2.3 years because someone has given consent, and later it turns out that he cannot get a connection to the electricity or to the water or anything else. It also makes no sense that in times like these, power is paid for kilowatts of electricity. This has a negative impact on the promotion of economic activity and investment. You can't pay for the power, so we wanted all the closed winters. Instead of paying only electricity consumption, they must pay both strength and consumption in winter and of course they are all closed. We don't have two hotels that work in winter. That way we won't even encourage economic activity, so we won't encourage tourism activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70303	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70304	Thank you. My dear colleague, in fact, in my speech and I have pointed out a few kinds of problems that are related to new investors, which is exactly how different types of energy is concerned, and then it is clear to all of us, we say in a simple dictionary of paperwork something that we often encounter. And very often, to me as well as to my fellow mayors, they knock on the door of people from investment and investors who in this way, as you said and complained. But I'm taking this opportunity to say one more thing, in the spirit of 2011, in the last two months of 2011, in my office, I've received almost more people with ideas than it was in all of 2010. Still, what it says in some way is that the time of new ideas and reflections for investments in this year 2011 is important, significantly different. I dare say more affirmatively and favorably than it was in the past 2009 and 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70305	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70306	Well, here I was going to refer to what you were talking about. Definitely the synergy of all is necessary, and state institutions such as HEP and urban such as hydrogen. Like what? It's not just a case of trafostations, it's a case of water. When you have to make one whole piece of plumbing and then hand it over to the city's company's basic assets. So that's what city firms do, like state firms do. And I don't think that's right. The city in this case should be a citizen service. So local administration and self-government are services and should serve investors and citizens as such. And I therefore welcome all those cities and municipalities that have decided to reduce the municipal contribution or even abolish some investment in certain percentages. Because on the one hand, it reduces the municipal contribution and direct revenues to the city budget, and on the other hand, employment increases and income tax increases. So there's one balance. When it comes to these building permits you've been talking about, it's true I have a lot of experience with the projectors literally misusing their position, not respecting the provisions of the GUP or the spatial plan, and then it happens that they can't get a license within that legal period of 30 or 45 days and then they say they don't issue permits within the legal deadline. Permissions are not issued because they violate the provisions of the GUP and do not want directly to their investors. Of course, if it can be called a favor, but in any case, I think there is a reason why permits are not issued within that legal period, and they are informed that they must correct the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70307	I ask MPs and deputies to enter the hall. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, my colleague Shuica explained the problem I'm adding right now. No need and no need to run away from the fact therefore and with problems related to designing that there are problems both with us and with local and public administration. And very often the flexibility of the environment in which the situation lies and talks comes up with certain solutions. In my particular place in Zapresic a year and a half ago, a thousand 200 were requests to issue construction permits. At that moment, precisely by synergy of all municipalities, cities and additional resources for the work of people overtime, we also moved this problem from a dead end and brought it to a situation that we finally brought a large part of such building permits. But it is true and clear and the fact is that not all units of local self-government are in the same position and can neither adequately respond at a given time to the investor's demand for all of his total investment because this is precisely the synergy and water and gas and DTK sewers and new legal frameworks related to this problem. And he's just responsible and high-quality... so he was negatively better than the answer that's generally positive, and after a year it comes to the knowledge that actually investing is not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70309	Thank you. Please determine the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. Until we get the quorum together, we'll continue the debate. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go. I ask MPs and MPs to stay in the hall that are here for others to arrive.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am glad that the opposition said that this is a good law, that it will help the economy, that it is enforceable, and I really believe that the law is aimed at a more efficient and efficient way of doing it and more quickly activate investment projects. What is already said is that the proposal is being set up by the Guarantee Fund of €1 billion for the purpose of encouraging new and completing the investment projects already launched, the guarantees from this fund are therefore intended to strengthen the potential of entrepreneurs to launch and implement investment projects and to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the Croatian economy. So, the goal is to stimulate the investment cycle and revive the economy. The fund, as we have already said, will be managed by the HBOR on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. With the attention of a good expert, they will carry out the guarantee procedure, conduct supervision of the dedicated use of the loans for which the guarantee is granted, and carry out supervision or carry out the recovery procedure on the basis of the guarantees paid. Banks benefiting from the guarantee of the day, with the attention of a good expert, carry out insurance of the given guarantees, and in order to be more effective, the HBOR may authorise banks whose benefits are the guarantees of the day to carry out the attention of a good expert and other tasks related to this law. What I would like to say is that here one bank co-operation with the state is seen, that the risk is divided, that the guarantee is given to entrepreneurs between the bank and the state and that it will mainly respond to the bank in some way, because it analyses the project, it finance, and in the worst case scenario also implements the executive procedure. So he's still taking most of the risk. The fact is, therefore, that the duration of this measure is proposed as of 30 April 2012, that guarantees are exclusively for investment projects for which there is adequate insurance. What I would like to say and today it is said that in some way and locally, I believe that the HBOR that leads to the award will in some way guarantee that he will lead I would also say about the local giving of these guarantees, which is really important. And that's why it's so good that this project goes through HBOR. The fact is that this will improve I would say the possibility of entrepreneurs to secure this project, because there are often good projects, but entrepreneurs did not have that sufficient credit capacity and precisely through the measures of this Guarantee Fund Act I think it will succeed and will make it easier to achieve that loan. And with that loan, he's going to start encouraging his entrepreneurship, and I believe he's going to hire new workers. What's important is that I think of Parliamentarians, that we encourage entrepreneurs to take advantage of these opportunities, especially because this law is really good. Three constituency committees had no objections. I really propose that it be accepted and I believe that those effects, those objectives that the Government has set with this law, will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70311	We've got 77 meals. ... Where do you speak from, from the assembly room or by the assembly hall or where? ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Is that what you're suggesting? [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Where are you talking from? ... Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. He's giving up the debate. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about renewable energy sources and the Guarantee Fund which is otherwise an incentive to this part. Most countries want to stand alone in energy supply, they want to become as small an addict as possible on energy imports. As a result, the countries of the European Union have put in place a series of measures and guidelines aimed at reducing energy imports and protecting the environment. They plan to increase the use of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% by 2020, reduce the emissions of harmful gases by 20%, increase energy efficiency by 20% and 10% of road transport fuels by alternative fuels, i.e. biofuels. The newly adopted Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia provides for greater use of renewable energy sources, mainly wind energy, solar energy and biomass, i.e. biogas. If we do not do something urgently, we will not be able to achieve the goal of 13.6% of the electricity produced from renewable energy sources by 2020. According to the government of the Republic of Croatia regulation on the minimum share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources and cogenerations whose production is in motion, we have the "National Journal" from 2010, and achieve the 5.8% target. Now we have about 1%, and the goal of 13.6% of electricity produced from renewable energy sources is going to be difficult to achieve. Otherwise, we'll have to pay for greenhouse gas emissions because we haven't achieved our goals. These are data that are not encouraging, but responsible government headed by President Jadranka Kosor is aware that we do not have the money to throw and pay for expensive greenhouse gas emissions, so we have therefore approached the search for causes which, despite the positive regulatory situation with the share of electricity produced from renewable sources, are such. Since this government is constantly intervening its ministries and, in this case, through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, conducts talks with entrepreneurs and wants to help them remove barriers to investment in this sector, we think it would be good to provide guarantees through the Guarantee Fund and make capital available to invest in this sector easier because it is one of the most important obstacles to investment. We have a great potential for renewable energy sources, and we are addicted to importing more expensive and more expensive energy. Here's a few words about the importance of this sector. Currently in the European Union, in the field of environmental protection, sustainable development and new renewable energy technologies in crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, more workers are working than in the automotive industry. This is an indicator of the development of Europe and the direction in which the Croatian economy should be restructured. It would be wise and reasonable to use our shipyards and direct them to the area of production of renewable energy equipment, for example. parts of wind power plants and solar collectors. This directly opens new jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. The estimate is that around 50,000 new jobs in renewable energy could be opened by 2020. This would reduce energy imports into the Republic of Croatia and fulfil the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas emission reductions. For example. in the European Union, which is dominated by Germany, 5600 megawatts were installed in 2009... electrical power generation systems, mostly on building roofs. [[You don't understand.]] Behind Germany installed new 3800 megawatts in 2009 comes Italy with 730, the Czech Republic with 411, Belgium with 292, France with 185 megawatts etc. The Republic of Croatia, although it has better conditions. more sunny days than Germany, the Czech Republic, Belgium, France, there is not another megawatt... voltage systems. [[You don't understand.]] At this point, 6500 biogas plants were built in Germany. We only have one that delivers electricity to the network here in Croatia. If we are talking about starting a domestic economy and hiring people then we should bear in mind that the construction of a biogas plant that delivers to the network 1 megawatt electricity enables our designers and units of local self-government, construction companies, equipment manufacturers, pipes, valves and the like, income of 20 million kuna at the moment when the construction sector is on its knees. Then we don't need to be too smart and ask great experts for a recipe to run an economy. Let's also rewrite the German model because we have something to learn from them in the economy because the German economy has already come out of recession. We are even in a better position because the Germans for investments in biogas plants and plastics do not have the possibility of co-financing that we currently have through the IPARD pre-accession programme, which we need to make the most of. But it's not the end, it's just the beginning because Slavonia's potentials are mainly in Vukovar-Srijem County where I come from are such that in every village we have the potential to build one such facility. And when it was built, we would solve the problem of agricultural producers who would have had a 12-year safe purchase for the produced silage and prices that farmers have in Germany, and the possibility that two harvests of annual corn and barley, which means that they would finally know about who and at which price they would produce something and how much money they would get for it. No more protests and dissatisfied peasants. In these 12 years, it is a preferential price at which electricity is purchased. 30 to 40% of substrates for one such plant can be manure from cows' farms, May or chickens, and in this way we adequately take care of the same. It will soon be our obligation because of the nitrate directives. Nus product of one such facility 1 and a half megawatt of heat that we can use to heat the plastics. 1 hectare of plastics that would employ 10 families from that village because they would produce vegetables that we import anyway. In addition, there are opportunities for the construction of droughts for fruits and agricultural cultures, and the use of the same thermal energy throughout the year in the best possible way. In other words, one such facility is the engine of one village development. Nus product is also a large amount of organic fertiliser that completely replaces artificial fertiliser, and in this case our farmers should get it for free. And our hurricanes should finally move towards ecological production where we are also lagging behind Europe. We're destroying the soil and water with expensive artificial fertilisers. I think we have more than enough arguments to launch these kind of projects that would ultimately bring about the launch of the economy, employment, satisfied peasants, the conservation of the environment and the survival of Slavonian villages. If it is not used wisely and reasonably by its natural resources, it is most effective with new energy technologies that will mark this 21st century in line with the sustainable development and long-term objectives of environmental protection such as the sun, clean sea, air, water that is given to God as a paradise on earth in the Republic of Croatia, and in order to preserve the diverse natural wealth and beauty of its country. It would really be a scientific isolation and professional blindness of responsible people in our country who deal with energy problems and environmental protection. Let us not forget that our children will never forgive us if we pollute, destroy or God forbid we sell the natural resources, the beauty of our country of Croatia, and these are beautiful and clean seas, coasts, islands, clean water, forests and air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70313	Thank you. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. She's gone, she's losing her word. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Any action by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that turns to the economy is acceptable, especially when we talk about how to take part of the risk to the economy and in some ways try to show that it believes in the economy. Therefore, no one in this House doubts whether or not this measure should be supported. But what we will always differ about is in an attempt to assess the situation in the economy in the Republic of Croatia. And this comes from the wrong assessment of the situation. We estimate that the situation is only problematic for one reason, and this is the reason for the global crisis in the world and that with this measure we are trying to address these consequences of the global crisis in the Croatian economy. Well, that's not true. It is evident that, in addition to the impact of the global crisis, we have our own problems, our own economic problems, and that, in fact, if we were to seriously assess this situation, the package of measures would probably be mutually agreed. Yeah, 37 billion indifference wasn't caused by a global crisis, it wasn't caused by a global crisis, it wasn't. Data that some of us have 13 billion unpaid taxes and contributions, and maybe even about 20 billion of those that are prolonged, enormous unpaid taxes and contributions, enormous. And that's the problem. And know these problems are not caused by a global crisis. Yes, indifference, the global crisis must have caused the decline of industrial production, I would say the number of employees and what is the worst growth of the unemployed at the Employment Office. But these are the problems in the economy, and they must be tackled by a series of measures. Today we discussed that among those packages that went to solve insolvency was the most successful model H. Why? Well, because indifference is the enormous and obvious interest of banks, the interest of the state when we look at the state budget, but also the interest of individuals was how to solve this indifference. And it's really a model that I would say something really successful. But can we measure that success with the results? We can't. Because simply from month to month, almost a billion kunas are greater indifference. So model A didn't give us the result we needed, and that's the result of turning the liquidity trend around. It was simply evident that the measure was insufficient. My colleague Shuker himself stated here that our desire to help investment with guarantees and not being productive for the last year, because everyone turned to model A, fighting how to resolve insolvency, fighting how to solve this non-payment, was all occupied. There are few entrepreneurs who are thinking about investment, there are few entrepreneurs who are thinking about it and how we're going to start a new project, some new investment, when we have liquidity problems, when that liquidity threatens even those stable, safe ones that can turn to some projects, that's the problem in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, our current legislative proposal that speaks of the possibility for the state to take part of the risk on itself, the People's Bank's move to provide additional liquidity, but one and the other measures are currently heading towards new investments. Now let's put ourselves in a fundamental problem, if our entrepreneurs are able to use each other's measures, if at the same time the liquidity hasn't stopped, if at the same time the trend... Unpaid bills are higher from month to month. [[You don't understand.]] Now that is the question, whether we have really managed to bring the whole package into line, whether we have come together to a complete problem in the Croatian economy. It is evident that if we do not resolve our state claims, with the claims of the biggest creditors, how to put them in the role of saving jobs, not these credit arrangements, we will not significantly reverse the negative trends related to individence in the Republic of Croatia. If we don't solve this, I'm afraid all the efforts for new investments, new projects won't be that simple, and it won't be a simple question whether we'll get an effect. This document that we got today would be really much more quality if we could predict the results of these measures. We know that this is a new billion kuna invested, whether it's 10, 20 thousand new jobs, whether it's a smaller data, a smaller percentage of the unemployed, to try to track through the results of all of this, but obviously if we want to put in here and possible results with which we can really expect changes in behaviour and economic data, and also in macroeconomic data, then it's certain that our efforts for comprehensive interventions in this part should simply be changed. That's why we insist, people and administrative laws have to influence payment deadlines. If we introduce such solutions, we will be able to stop all the irresponsible ones operating in the system of the economy. It is unacceptable that there is no solution in that part. Why is that unacceptable? Well, because model A, which costs and where the enormous money was invested, didn't give the effect. They need extra measures, extra steps to simply stop that evil. There's no such suggestion. And then we wonder why there are no effective results of all possible government measures. They're not in line, they're simply ad hoc brought in in a certain period of time, and we're still negative liquidity data, the number of unemployed, the drop in industrial production, the shine and the unrest, I'd say to the economy, the banks, but also to all those who want to do something in the economy. Therefore, the proposal is simply to try to assess the situation of all the problems that we have in the Croatian economy, which are not primarily imported, but are our problems, because at that moment we will slowly come up with the biggest information that gross wages in Croatia are unsustainable, that pay is the burden of financing all public needs, which is not good, that we need to change it and that the packages to reduce the price of capital, how to secure capital, if at the same time we do not disburse the price through the change of tax policies... , let us not disburse the businessmen for many and many parafiscal burdens will not yield results. [[You don't understand.]] He won't give us a score. And we're just going to spend money, we're just going to be exhausted through this time and the legislator and the businessman, but we're not going to get results, and that's why we support this measure, we don't have any thoughts or convictions that the results will be more favourable, but that the movements will continue to be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70315	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Linic said we don't have a measure to reduce indifference, non-payments, etc., which is really not true. We have since this year so transferred from banks to a financial agency to keep her safe, so to conduct the executive procedure. And it should be recalled that because of the lack of payment and implementation of this executive procedure, it should be said that your government, that when you were the vice president of that government, that you transferred all of this to banks, and of course the banks weren't interested in carrying it out, and this is all the result of your policy, the ones you ran in 2002, 2003, even 2001. So the government has a measure of this, so since the new year it's all been done in FINA, and I would only say that all that's been happening is the consequences of your government's decisions and laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70317	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00, with replicas. Replication sequel, yes, yes, at 3:00. We've got three replicas, Mrs. Holly's first on the line, so at 3:00 p.m., follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70318	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. They're up, there's three more lines left. The first is the line for the replica of MP Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70319	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Linic, you're absolutely right about this being a measure to be commended. However, this measure will not solve the chaos and mess that exists in general in the economic system of the Republic of Croatia, and I am afraid that this measure will not be able to solve the problems encountered, for example, by Končar-KET. It is a company that deals, meaning construction and implementation and hydropower plants, among other things, which won a single competition last year, an international competition for the construction of a hydropower plant in Iceland. That job was worth 50 million euros. In the end, however, the Croatian company lost that job because it failed to provide guarantees for the amount, and since the guarantees were offered to it under, means 7.2% interest, while Siemens succeeded which otherwise 10% was more expensive than our company to provide much more favourable means interest compared to 3.9% lost that job because it was more expensive afterwards. So the question arises, given that this project could provide additional employment in this extremely important company. In addition, there is also a very important technology for renewable energy sources that Croatia can benefit greatly from, in which way the government will find ways to help with such projects, given that the amount here was much more than 50 million kuna, which is the maximum amount of the guarantee that this law is actually agreeing on. Well, in that sense, I think it is necessary to come up with a much more elaborate and more complex area of solving economic problems in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70320	Reply to the replica, MP Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70321	There is no doubt that today's bill of law will not solve the possibilities of our builders, our contractors, the equipment for any more serious investment procedures in the world and Europe, and I don't expect this law, which is really written to get rid of it, I would say less ventures in Croatia, to be for this sort of thing. But that is why I would remind myself that the SDP has offered, I would say the business decision of the Croatian Parliament on recapitalisation or I apologize for the payment of core capital to HBOR, and it would be possible for the Croatian Government to propose a new recapitalisation, to increase HBOR's capital. His job is to monitor major procedures, large investments, large ventures by Croatian exporters, especially exporters of equipment and works. And if we had an HBOR capable of providing guarantees for these kinds of ventures, we wouldn't be out of business. And as long as it's not institutional through HBOR and we don't have enough capital from HBOR, we're not going to solve this problem with these intervention laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70322	The next replica of representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70323	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Linić, I fully agree with this connection between your investment cycle in Croatia and the resolution of the huge indifference that exists in our payment system. In fact, investments in the real sector can only raise the social gross product and only they are the only real indicator of economic growth. However, in a situation where we have reached nearly 37 billion kunas of blocked accounts, it does not mean that this is the ultimate amount of unpaid debt, just to say in two years of crisis and blockades have increased by impossible 20 billion kunas. The Prime Minister says there's a large number of companies that don't hire anyone. However, that is an even bigger problem, an additional problem. These are claims that will never be charged. And indifference as it is in Croatia today precisely because it is not solved it has bitten healthy economic tissue and no laws, no favourable credit can solve it. It is almost two years since those famous anti-recession measures have been adopted, including the resolution of the system's indifference. In fact, it's incomprehensible why the government so persistently refuses to try to solve this problem. It can be resolved on a legislative and economic basis. This is done by almost all countries facing this problem, and the European Union also has two directives that address the problem of non-payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70324	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70325	It is evident that by inserting fresh money into models A, model A plus we will not solve, it has so affected the Croatian economy that the number of legal persons of 33,000 is huge, and that the amount is simply astounding 37 billion, and unfortunately the trends that still show the rise of unpaid accounts. What is evident is that the Law on Payments and Payments would also define certain procedures as to how the creditors try and how they should find common language between debtors and creditors, in which the creditors must also be counted by the Croatian State or better said by the Ministry of Finance, which certainly has enormous claims based on unpaid contributions, unpaid taxes. And such laws need to force the creditors and debtors to try to make arrangements, to resuscitate that part more seriously to start talking about investing and spending money on the basis of possible guarantees, state guarantees for any investment procedures. Money won't solve liquidity, for the simple reason once inequitable, it's out of confidence for the bank's banking system... Such entities don't go. [[You don't understand.]] Model A has been successfully realized, resulting in none. Why? Because there is no solution now for insolvency entities that are simply very risky for both the banking system and the state. And we have to settle it with additional laws in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70326	Last replica, representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70327	Thank you very much. You spoke about problems of liquidity in the Croatian economy, problems of liquidity in the banking system, the latest measure of the Croatian National Bank, which fired 6.3 billion kuna from banks, reducing the minimum required claims from 20% to 17% and showing hope that the measure will improve the liquidity of the banking system. Because of these proposals a few years ago I was the most assaulted person in Croatia, but it was a time when the banking system was truly inequitable, when the interest on overnight loans was up to 30, 40%, it was pre-recession time and then those measures would really be effective. But it should be pointed out that today, the time of the liquid banking system, never the banking system in Croatia's history was more liquid than today, 4 billion kuna and more on average is the excess liquidity that banks keep on the accounts of the National Bank, so there were no economic reasons why there was no need for such a measure, because there was no need to salt the sea. To this extent, I do not recognize economic development. More can be associated with pre-election time, with research results and published surveys, not with some measure that will improve the inliquefied banking system system because it is not inequitable, it is, not liquid, but overly liquid, except that banks are credit-inactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70328	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70329	counterpart Maric can accept that additional funds in the banking system will not significantly change the situation in the economy. There may be a reduction in interest rates. And now we're really going to see if what happened to the new six billion in the payment system is in the banking system, whether the interest is going to fall in the next month or two. Because if that doesn't happen then we'll see what the basic problem is. It's not money. It's a risk problem. The limitations of this new National Bank placement towards a six-billion-dollar banking system are a lack that it can only go into new investments and that may be a wrong assessment. New investments mean new employees, so those measures might be trying to talk we'll pull some of the people from the Employment Service. And yet I'm pointing out 37 billion unpaid bills. It would be good to deal with that, because if we solve that, there are no new unemployed at the Bureau. Therefore, the idea will not, we will go into investment and withdraw the unemployed, and perhaps it would be better if we stopped a new arrival, and the liquidity is the new arrival of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70330	We're continuing the debate. It's representative Nadica Jelash's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70331	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. What we're talking about today is another intervention law that is being repaired, recycled like last week's one that was adopted on subsidisation of housing loans which also failed to show success since only 67 apartments were purchased according to the proposed model, and so it had to be repaired. The same fate has been experienced last year by the Guarantee Fund Act because in its implementation, there was only one auction, and the amount of the quota requested was less than 40 million kuna. What is being imposed as a conclusion is that legislative proposals are not being prepared seriously, sufficiently responsible and not doing all the necessary simulations. And of course they don't ask the entrepreneurs. Here is the Governor of Rohatinski, consulting entrepreneurs and banks before this last decision and based billions will certainly be a full hit. So what I'm saying is that the government experimentes too much, operates on the principle of trial and error as if Croatia has an infinitely long time to wait in these attempts to establish and some applicable law that will get positive effects. This behaviour of the Government shows that it is irresponsible and does not actually have the capacity to understand the seriousness of the situation in which the Croatian economy is and then, consequently, Croatian society as a whole. In this embedded text, it is proposed that the amount of the state guarantee be reduced from last year's 50% to 30% because last year's experience with the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery showed that entrepreneurs on average lack only 30% of their own participation in obtaining a bank loan, not 50% as thought last year at the time of the law. I have to admit this reduction with this explanation is neither clear nor logical since the situation has been further radicalised over the past year since last year's adoption. Therefore, the investment potential of the Croatian economy is even smaller, and on the other hand, there is an even greater lack of trade capital in the business process, and what is seen by the huge indifference that continues to escalate. Personally, I would prefer the argument that the state in agreement with the banks managed to transfer part of that guarantee risk from its back to its banks in view of the fact that banks have huge surplus capital, i.e. huge surplus liquidity. Unlike the economy, which has largely been sub-capitalised, among other things, because of the huge losses that have been burdened with their business over the last two years, it turns out that in Croatia it is more profitable, not to say more rationally not to work, not to do business, because when you work, when you do business, you make losses. The Croatian economy is completely devastated and such partial measures as this law cannot help it, because they do not simply have the capacity to do so. And I'm afraid that those who are going to look for loans with this and this guarantee, in most cases, will seek credits for crafts, so to finance the current business for keeping the company alive, not for investment and not for development. The businessmen simply don't invest, they don't invest because they're afraid. Their biggest fear is that they won't have a job, and we know that capacity employment is actually the strongest motive for investment. And that's where we come up with the most important question, whether entrepreneurs know what to invest in, because there's banks react that one of the most common reasons why they don't approve of loans is because there's no quality projects. And the second question being raised is whether the state knows what this guarantee fund will support, which projects will support, whether it's only important to invest in anything, so it's going to invest again in the malls that will work for a year or two, and after that, it's going to close down because of the lack of profitability. Or the state will be able to subsidize production investments with a guarantee fund. The answer to this question is extremely important, because industrial production falls from month to month, and it is industry that has the ability to create the largest number of jobs and which produces the most goods for export. And it's important to change our export structure. The prime minister likes to point out that our exports have been growing lately. Yes, on the one hand, for the delivery of ships, but on the other hand, and that is the worst thing about exports is that we export raw materials, wood and the like. This guarantee fund should therefore be in the function of promoting production and that of production which has a higher added value. And in the hope that at least part of that guarantee fund will be used precisely for that purpose, I support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70332	Thank you very much. We have the latest reported individual debate, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70333	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, this measure, which is here as a legal proposal for a guarantee fund here today on benches in the Croatian Parliament, according to the statement and according to many colleagues, actually looks like giving, I will say a little bit of that on the medical side, like giving an infusion to a dead person, or half-dead. When I say that, then I won't repeat everything that's already been said here about the state of the economy and the indicators that show it. It is true that we would like to know more precisely that this law indicates where, so this billion kuna is directed as the Guarantee Fund, 30% is actually a help to those who want to invest and here it writes for development. I'd rather say it's a recovery. One is recovery, the other is development. It's more about recovery than it seems to me about development. And it would be good for development, especially if it were to develop in the sense of opening up therefore productive jobs to create added value. Without it, the Croatian economy, and the whole country, in fact, continues to sink into the fungi. Two years ago, on February 18th 2009, exactly two years passed, an electronic medium wrote and wrote, says eternal wisdom, "In the land of the blind one-eyed man is king." The opposite wisdom applies to Croatia. In this country everyone sees very well what's going on, and the only blind man is king, actually metaphorical president or prime minister. Then the Prime Minister was Mr. Ivo Sanader. So how far does this blindness go to here for 2 years as promised any intervention of the state, either in terms of the Guarantee Fund, or in this A or B measures of the HBOR, etc., I am not an economist so that someone doesn't mind me, here after 2 years of this article on the promise to launch economic recovery and development, here now after 2 years so here's this inscription I've quoted, he's talking about it. So, did it take two years for us to take this measure that is supported by all parties and opposition and ruling so here is the HDSSB as my colleague Buric said about the club of representatives to run something. If we couldn't have done it sooner, that's why I told the infusion or the adrenaline injection not to say it to the heart, if it's going to be in the heart, because in those first measures mentioned by a colleague here A+ etc., a little funding has been withdrawn from the guarantee funds and what was created. As far as it's going to be withdrawn from this billion, that's also very questionable. And we would all love, without exception, that I believe that we are all in good faith to accept this legal proposal, if those branches would pull it back, those entrepreneurs who would actually create new jobs, and thus, by creating new jobs for production jobs, create a new added value, and certainly part of that added value, or production, would probably go to export as well. About what we were talking about here today, which is the support of local self-government. Here is a colleague who spoke well and has every honour to his municipality, including his colleague Huška and his colleague Mršić, etc., who are at the head of local self-government is good if local leaders recognize and depend on their ability. Not the same municipalities and cities in areas of special state concern, are not in the same position, of special state care, are not the same budgets, are not the same opportunities, but in any case these local leaders, or local self-government, need to find part of the support and other ways of communal contribution, communal fees and other things that local self-government decides to contribute to this one recovery and once let me tell God give the run of Croatia, the new run of Croatia's economy. With all this here, there have been a lot of words about transhospitals and HEP etc., and public enterprises can also do great pain and give a great contribution, namely to, to say the monetary this transaction, so the guarantee and 30% of the relief to say that in this part of the help is being made from public companies of the state, and then from local self-government, municipalities, cities so that we can probably already by some consensus here, and I'm joining, do something to at least move something in that sense. Of the 6.3 billion that the CNB has released with knowledge, ignorance of this should not be debated. It is clearly a measure that the CNB, which is autonomous in its action, estimated to be good and that it is necessary, and I hope that this will also help in this same objective. About 7 days ago in one village, the municipality of Podkkallje near Slavonski Brod, the village of Glogovica, was debated, i.e. the tribune about what was waiting for us in the EU, and it was agriculture. And then the peasants, who are protesting today, said that for the legalization of their objects they would be dealing with clear livestock, etc. invest, legalize their facilities need an eye, depending on the size of the facility, up to 150 thousand kuna for all papers. Furthermore, in order to comply with the provisions of the EU nitrate directive, which has been in force since 01.01.2011, therefore they need to build closed fertilisers, depending again on the size of the facility whether it is more than 400, if spoken in cubes and not in square meters or over 600, so they need an additional 200 to nearly 500 thousand kuna to build such objects that will hold the manure, let's say, which is emptied by the nitrated directive twice a year. So I ask and they ask themselves, and they, I wonder, and I hope we all wonder when these money is summed up for and capital investments thank God they're late that we all know according to the operational plan and everything else and with great delay these money comes, that these people who want to invest and whether they can, are not written here, are they also not able to use this Guarantee Fund to participate because agricultural production, the food industry is also part of our economy. Here's one question. There are no proposings here but it is likely that some colleagues from the HDZ Club will be able to answer me mainly those who deal with the economy as Mr. Maric. Mostly the HDSSB club also supports this proposal personally in the faith and hopes that at least something will move even after two or three years as promised by the Government and Ivo Sanader and Mrs Kosor 14. The 01st year of last year has been promised this measure, and here it is exactly 13 months that this promise is being fulfilled. So we could have been much faster could have been more expedient in implementing these measures, especially since the economy is on the extremity, and that's why my first sentence, is that an infusion of a dead person or a half-dead person, you'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70334	We've got two replicas, the first representative is Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70335	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My esteemed colleague associated me with another comment on this subject, which is indirectly related to the Guarantee Fund itself, and primarily regarding everything that is related to the subject of economic recovery. You mentioned the legalization of objects, then I would extend it to the state in general in the cataster of landowners, objects or those used to them, and I believe that you will agree with me with social responsibility that as individuals and as a legal person of good and large part, we are not through history, through the years back legally resolve property relations. Which, during the time that it was and through previous documentation that did not take so long to create a moment that we actually cannot go further on solving property relations as a prerequisite for new investments if it is not resolved either in personal ownership or in public. And when we talk about the public when we talk about miles and miles of roads, especially waterways, DTK, sewerage, it's almost worse and there's a lot of municipalities and cities in a situation where there's no paper and documents to solve property legal relations and that physically in the nature of the good part of the road, water, electricity, gas made. In the situation where we are, and this is one of the activities, and that is one of the problems that I refer to as a problem that makes investment difficult and new investment in the areas of our republic. Here I am now in a situation where I signed a 3.5 million kuna contract with the state seven months ago on a new Catastrian change in the part of the city that you imagine was last made during Austria-Hungarian times.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70336	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70337	Comrade Turk, I agree with you that there are problems to say which we should have both by Arcade and other solutions and infrastructure problems, but I would remind you of something. The peasants aren't informed. Serbia, which does not even have pre-accession negotiations with the EU, has legalised all such objects in the state of Serbia. So do we need to be stricter in regulations than is the EU? So which is why we can't pass the regulation, the law or I don't know what to legalize existing objects by 1.1.2011. Well, that's our country, that's our facilities, that's our peasants. What we will do in this reference year towards the EU in terms of agriculture, if we do not legalise these facilities. What we're going to show Europe how many stables we have. If people can't and don't have money and there are regulations so strict that, for example, They're talking about how far from the border there must be a wall of a barn a foot away, and he's 6'2", and because of that 20 cm, you can't legalize a barn, let's say an object. So what are we doing to our people? Is administration, bureaucracy or should I say so ridden that we question the existence of our people. I don't think that's necessary. Therefore, in this House we will soon pass the law in connection with legalisation of the facilities by 1 January 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70338	It is now the second replica and distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70339	Thank you very much. Col. Grubisic was talking about the latest measure of monetary policy and whether the government knows about it or not. I would draw attention to the complexity of economic policy. Economic policy consists of its components and fiscal and monetary policy and industrial policy, export policy, income policy. She has her instruments and her goals. The main objectives are to maintain economic growth, increase employment, but this cannot be achieved by uncoordinated action by all components. So that any individual measure alone, regardless of its independence, can never obtain the expected results, and never a greater need is not for the coordination and coherence of these policies but at the time of recession. Therefore, it is not good under such conditions under the conditions of the biggest economic crisis to bring any measures that are not harmonised within the framework of economic policy. And it's not good to confirm that the thesis of a famous economist, Robinson, that economic theory does not serve us to give us ready solutions, but that we need to be served to protect us from economists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70340	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70341	Thank you, Mr. Maric. I repeat again that I agree with you in greater and more than you think, to you personally as an expert in the economy. However, I cited the example and quoted two years on February 18, 2009. It's about the same things, the same things in public, politics, the economy. So if someone for two years can't talk to the governor and the National Bank, then that autonomous decision has been made out of despair, I don't know how else to evaluate it. And there's one more thing I wanted to say, you know that our finance ministers have been raising loans, borrowing money in the world. Was then consulted the governor of the Croatian National Bank, 2 billion euros, that was the last loan. Even to all of us, to me and to you, and especially to the citizens, it's not a debt. Very interesting. I don't know if the loan is debt or not, we won't have to pay it back. There's no Mr. Shuker here to explain it to us yet. I'd like it in front of the cameras to tell us if a 2 billion-euro loan is a debt or if Mr. Rohatinski knows that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70342	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the terms of this law are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70343	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since our colleagues from different parties have different obligations in progress around noon now, I ask you to concentrate on ending this as soon as possible and moving on to the vote. I'm asking you to engage to determine the quorum. Please, let's get involved. The result? 89, we're over 90, but here's someone else who didn't get involved. Please, we have a quorum we can vote on. First, we move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for the Encouragement of Economic Development, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 720. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for the Encouragement of Economic Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 98 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70344	We're moving on to the agenda. We have - Final proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, second reading, P.Z. No. 556 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of this debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. We also have amendments. They were submitted by the HSS Representatives' Club and the Independent Representatives' Club. On behalf of the promoter here is Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Interior Ministry. You have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70345	... In 2003, it entered into force on 23 July 2003, on the day of its publication in "National Journal" 117 and was amended on two occasions by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, the "National Journal" No. 71 of 28 June 2006, and due to riots committed abroad by Croatian fans, new amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Rios in Sports Competitions entered into force on 17 April 2009. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] After the adoption of the basic law and these amendments and additions, there were on several occasions more serious illegal behaviours, riots and violence and the need to intervene in this law to prevent future similar cases of violence and to create a better legal framework for the treatment of those who act violently in sports competitions. The following was drawn up by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions with the final proposal for a law that is before you, and these amendments and amendments to the laws are proposed for some amendments and additions. I'll name only the most important. In relation to visitors, or persons who are violating regulations and who are acting in competitions, a new form of illegal facial masking for the purpose of committing illegal conduct or criminal acts shall be prescribed in Article 2. A zero tolerance shall then be introduced on the alcoholisation of visitors to sports competitions in Articles 2, 8 and 10. A ban shall be imposed on the presence of sports competitions based on knowledge of previous illegal behaviour and on those committed abroad in Articles 13 and 15. Obligation to hand over a travel document with an existing ban on going to sports competitions abroad, Article 13 and increasing fines and prison sentences in Articles 16, 17, 19 and 20. This law did not adopt or foresee news only concerning visitors but also certain obligations concerning sports competition organizers. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Then giving police the possibility to ban the maintenance of sports competition if the sports facility is not equipped according to the provisions of this law, Article 9. Obligation of the organisers to terminate the sport competition when illegal behaviour occurred in a greater extent without the conditions of threat to the safety of viewers and competitors, Article 3. A refusal to sell tickets by the organisers to visitors who are now being punished or registered as bullies in Article 13. The limitation of the number of tickets that the organiser places on the market so that more people would not leave at stadiums than there are places, thereby further increasing the risk of riots in Article 4. And the possibility of breaking up the game in case of illegal behaviour, regardless of the danger to viewers, Article 11. The possibility to supply data contained in the collection of data on persons and events in sports competitions and other users, thus allowing for the subsequent implementation of the provisions on the obligation of the organiser to prevent entry into the sport competition of persons who have been given different measures. And what may be even more important, the measures that would be directed at those who break regulations most violently and most violently are envisaged four new crimes: participation in a fight or attack on viewers or other persons, organisation of violence in sports competitions, destruction of things or property in a sports competition, and non-compliance with measures and bans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70346	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're going with the debates on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first is counterpart Sunday's Klaric, a HDZ representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70347	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, with the final proposal of the Law. And when we talk about preventing riots on sports grounds, we should first of all be aware of the fact that in this segment which is the most important prevention of this kind of behavior and that it is necessary to implement it in a way that prevention efforts touch but just all segments of society. The very prevention of violence will not be successful unless everyone interested is involved. In other words, it is important to promote the active participation of all sides of sports alliances, judicial authorities, sports organisations, officials, viewers, trainers, players, media. And they should actually properly present incidents and non-sport behaviour, not that such incidents are the main contribution of events, and educational institutions, as is not the case for me to particularly highlight the family. This means violence in sport, which is destructive, to oppose the overall social mechanisms in which each small wheel is equally important in countering negative phenomena. Here I would point out the use and extremely important, actually the dimension of education and information of parents and educational institutions about their own role and sharing responsibility with all other factors at social level. No country can find ideal solutions in the fight against hooliganism and violence in sport. But that is why at least we can promote active participation in the prevention of the same and apply consistent implementation of laws and codes of conduct which must be clearly formulated and clearly identify potential penalties for offenders. Let's get back to the past. The law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions was adopted at the session of the Croatian Parliament on 15 July 2003. Due to the difficulties encountered in law enforcement, in particular the enforcement of a protective measure prohibiting the presence of certain sports competitions by persons subject to a safeguard measure was not required to report to the police before or during the sport competition. The Ministry of Interior's initiative at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 9 June 2006 adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. These amendments and amendments to the law have been prescribed a mechanism for implementing safeguard measures, and there are also issues on improving safety at sporting events, and police have also been given powers to establish and introduce a database of offenders and events in sports competitions as well as for the international exchange of such data. These changes to the law have led to a decrease in the stadium incidents, but there has been an increase in the number of incidents in the direction of the fans' journey, and frequent incidents by Croatian fans at visiting matches abroad. Due to riots committed abroad by Croatian fans, new amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions entered into force on 17 April 2009. The amendments and amendments to the laws have introduced three types of safeguard measures, which are a ban on attending certain sports competitions in the Republic of Croatia with the obligation to report to the police station. Also with the obligation to stay at the police station, the ban on going to certain sports competitions abroad involving Croatian teams or sports clubs with reporting obligations at the police station. It also increased the amount of fines and sentences for offenders in sports competitions, and changed the name of the collection to make it clear that the collection refers to both persons and events related to sports competitions. Last year's events in sports competitions, primarily at the match between Dinam and Hajduk, which took place in Zagreb on 1 May 2010, showed that the law did not act effectively against a particular group of fans who, despite previous sanctions, continued to act against the law. Keeping in mind that the applicant has approached the creation of these amendments and additions to the law, and it is proposed to prescribe a new form of illegal behaviour, masking, precision of the organisation of the sport competition with regard to the recruitment of persons for the redistributive service. Giving the police the opportunity to ban the maintenance of a sports competition unless the sports facility is equipped with the provisions of this law. The obligation of the organisers to interrupt the sport competition when illegal behaviour occurred in a larger or wider extent, the introduction into the law of criminal acts in such a way that some of the more severe forms of illegal conduct are now described as punishable acts. The introduction of a ban on attending sports competitions based on knowledge of previous illegal behaviour, including those committed and beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia and abroad. Mandatory delivery of travel documents with an existing protective measure prohibiting going to sports competitions abroad. An increase in cash and prison sentences. The possibility of delivering data contained in the collection of data on persons and events in sports competitions and other users thus enabling more effective implementation of the provisions on the organizer's obligation to prevent the entry into the sport competition of persons who have been given different measures. The applicant considers that these amendments and additions will have a more effective impact on the perpetrators of illegal behaviour in sport competitions, and will deter them from further doing the same and prevent them from acting against others. It also wishes to influence the organizers of sport competitions in order to meet their obligations and responsibilities as well as the owners and users of sports facilities, given the fact that the deadlines for equipping sports facilities have already expired. Violence in sport is a question that needs to be kept under constant supervision, and it is necessary to develop new ones and, if necessary, more stringent strategies that support this bill. Sports can inspire the best, but also the worst in people. Analysis suggests that there are mostly younger people involved in riots in stadiums that are not the first offences of such a species. All such fans regularly possess sticks, boxers, knives, pyrotechnics, and are often under the influence of drugs and alcohol. But they do not only conduct violence in stadiums and stadiums, but also on arrival and return from sports competitions. I am convinced that we agree that we must ensure that sport fully develops its positive potentials, among which I would like to point out once again the extremely important different social and economic roles. In the promotion of state and nation, in raising and healthy growing young people, in preserving the health and vitality of a wide population of all generations, but also on the role it plays in the economy, tourism, media, etc. Sports can strengthen links within society, and act as a catalyst for social inclusion, and I hope that with this bill we can make significant progress in preventing and reducing all kinds of violence in sport. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70348	Thank you very much. It is next to the Club of Representatives of the HSS, representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70349	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. In every grain there are dolls, so among fans there are those who are not there because of their club, and support for players, but so that they can express their negative emotions. Because of these latter, we need a rigorous law, because it's about hooligans who shouldn't even be able to stop near the stadium, let alone be there, to have a chance to do harm to someone. They make up 2% of the population who visits matches, but are very loud, aggressive and dangerous. The other 98% are ordinary people who see football as fun, and who want to come to games to enjoy the game. According to them, the law doesn't need to be rigorous, because the citizens of this country are appropriate, and if we can get those 2% of the hooligans out of the stadium, these 98% will be happy to take their children to the game, so we'll get extra benefit for their families, which will be more together, and then also benefit society as a whole. We at the HSS Club are the view that this law could have been stricter against the hooligans, although it introduces some significant newspapers than a ban on disguises, the obligation to break matches, the ban on attending matches, to stricter criminal and criminal provisions. It would be good if the responsibility of sports competition organizers, clubs and alliances was more strongly covered, especially for game security, not that everything is trying to shift to the back of the police. We also believe that the law is too rigorous for all those who come for fun and cheer at the games, and that with some new measures that are proposed, there can be a destruction of sponsorship contracts, including VAT, but also a further reduction in the number of visitors in sports competitions. Therefore, we have submitted amendments to Articles 2, 8, 10 and 19 to the HSS Club and our support for this law will also depend on their acceptance. In short, these amendments will allow for the sale and consumption of drinks at games, including those containing up to 6% alcohol, and will not be punishable for fans and visitors if they drink before the game, or at the game and have no more than 0.5 alcohol spills in their blood. I'm going to illustrate this in one example that I spoke of and in the first reading of this law. Club Medveščak has solid results, their players are working hard and are a good example for young people. Their games are well visited, there are no riots on them, despite their main sponsor being one of their alcoholic drink producers. So far, there has been no incident at their game or even recorded drunkenness, which shows that it is not a problem in a glass of beer, which the fans, or fans, will drink, but is a problem in some people who call themselves fans and are actually hooligans who cause riots in some sports competitions, especially football. In the opinion of the HSS, we are introduced into zero tolerances for alcohol to the stadium contrary to other laws, especially those on road safety, which is allowed to drive a car if you do not have more than 0.5 alcohol spills in your blood. So it's quite strange that one law allows you to consume alcohol and drive a car to come to the game, but another law you discriminate against all those drivers because you forbid them to be at the game and cheer, which is absurd. Zero tolerance for alcohol and banning alcohol in stadiums, except that it is discriminatory to game viewers, has nothing to do with sound logic, and can also lead to the closure of catering facilities in stadiums, which are often the only ones paying rents and are a stable source of income, which covers both maintenance and stadium directing, and not to say that in smaller stadiums it is actually the only income that is obtained. The riots, of course, are not specific to Croatia, but violent fans have shamed Croatia countless times in many international sports competitions and should no longer have a discount on them. Because of the players at the matches, Platini also roared for a recent visit to Zagreb, stressing that UEFA is ready to kick the team and clubs out of its competitions. As the Croatian media from UEFA announces, they said cheerleading violence exceeds the frameworks of football, and that a state reaction and international police co-operation are needed. Under concrete measures, UEFA cites an effective system of travel banning and coming to matches with troubled fans, international data exchange between police, quick trial and high penalties for all participating in riots. Although the provisions of the Croatian authorities and the alliance were welcomed with joy, the other part of the obligation is not so attractive because it requires, of course, great financial resources, but it is necessary. UEFA also includes improving football infrastructure, primarily stadiums, better match organisation, with the involvement of additional directors who, as well as police officers, must pass improved training. There must be a database of troubled fans and promotion of friendly fans. Croatia's fan groups welcomed Platini's words to the knife, arguing that the criticisms were addressed to their account unfounded, and that Western-European countries, unlike Croatia, recorded as much as 300 percent of the increase in the incident. Anyway, we have to ask ourselves a couple of us football, but also sport generally narrowed down to it, that instead of sports pages full of black chronicles. The forms of such aggressive and delinquent behavior are different. Some have caused a difficult situation of life, imperceptibility, inadequate family conditions, inappropriate education, haughtiness, or the influence of the group. The display of frustration regardless of the place and reason of origin is obviously inevitable in them, and is focused on the area where it is easiest to achieve it, with the protection of course always being the best in the group, regardless of whether we are talking about a cheerleading group or someone else. At a time when opportunities are difficult, such people are most easily instrumented, and the result is all riots. In every population, and in all layers of society, there is a certain percentage of those who will be happy to break the law, therefore there are also fans in cheerleading groups and those who break. Not all fans are the same, and we think we should distinguish fans from hooligans. We also feel that there is a need to shed light on the role of clubs. It's no secret that the clubs for many years have been on a honeymoon with fans, and so little like when you buy a little pitbull and feed it, you raise it, you don't feel it growing, and it grows and then bites you. Clubs fear fans, share hooligans on ours and theirs, put pressure on them, pay for lawyers, simply support a culture in which everything is allowed so they don't hear their name in ugly songs from the stands, so they don't find a destroyed car or maybe fear for their safety. And then when an innocent person gets hurt, they wash their hands and write heartwarming letters, they transfer the ball to the state yard. The hooligans think they're important, that they're wondering, that they judge and judge, and this problem needs to be solved because the car will break down on some innocent kids. But as long as the clubs are fenced and not reported to the police for harassment and pressure, as long as they pay for wildlings abroad, that is, going to these wildlings abroad, as long as there are players who can run and those who are not worth enough, until they put a limit between the one who manages and the one who is given and without compensation, the clubs are participants in what's going on. It's a culture they revived under their laps, supporting either out of fear or out of any interest. In any case, by inaction and by hiding things, they are participants in everything the government and fans and all the inhabitants of this country face. What will happen to young people who love sports and follow various games are wondering concerned parents and terrified every time their child goes to the game. At the beginning of each football season, one of the main topics is cheerleader groups. They're the reason for the prep games, clubs pay high fines to UEFA, players get their feet cut off when fans' leaders take them on their teeth. What would have been a cheerleading incident in the order of our countries has turned into a rule. The question is, who are the real fans? Can someone's love for football get to the point where they're destroying everything that's human? Are real fans the ones in whose heart is one club, who with their songs encourages players on the ground? Yes, but how are things today? Did the role of faithful and true, loyal fans be taken over by hooligans who have no regard or principle? For the current situation on sports grounds and an increasing number of hooligans are, of course, guilty clubs that offer nothing interesting at these matches. Sports competitions, although not supposed to be their primary goal, are also the economic branches. They've always been from Greece and Rome to today. But like the whole economy, you can't sell a bad product and expect people to come back for more. Why is it that the large amount of money for clubs detached from the budget is not purposely directed towards raising new generations of athletes, football schools and camps? Do you know how much football school costs in the Croatian capital? 400 kuna a month. Which of the parents with more children can afford it? It's twice as expensive as a music school a month, so when you borrow an instrument, not to mention how much tennis costs or any other elite sport. We at HSS are the position to provide finance in order to make as many children and adults active in sports as possible, not just passively watching games in stadiums or in front of televisions. And when it comes to fans, games and riots, it seems that it is all one vicious circle from which it will be very difficult for everyone to take their role and responsibility seriously and return to sport, and especially the most important side thing in the world – football is the right place. There will be no room for hooligans, but only for those who are able to revel in and encourage their players with positive energy. That's what game and competition is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70350	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate of the IDS Representatives Club, Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70351	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. All right, we see that first of all, this repression is tightened, so here in Article 31.b is said: "It will be punished by a prison of 1 to 5 years who organises or runs a group that together during going to a sports competition and the duration of a sports competition or returning from a sports competition participates in a fight or attack against other viewers, directors, official persons etc." Article 31c also says: "They will be punished with fines or prisons for up to 3 years who during going to a sports competition and the duration of a sports competition or return damages, distorts, destroys other people's property by greater value." And Article 31d states: "Who during the period of the safeguard measure referred to in Article 32 of the Security Action or the ban on attending the sport competition referred to in Article 34a shall be found in the space of the sports facility or its presence shall otherwise be punished by a fine or also by a prison sentence until one year." So we see that these sentences are rigorous, that they're almost dragonous. Come on, let them be like that. And let's send that message - stop violence in the stadiums! But what should also be said is that this primitiveism, that this chugging, I don't know, isn't about one basketball, with one hand, with one hockey but only with our football. I agree that football is a game of all games, king of any sporting discipline, but what's going on in our stadiums, around the stadium has really gone too far and that should sort of end. If it's necessary, it's time for jail. Clearly, there are extreme illogicalities in us. For example, Mrs. Petyr spoke of it. No alcohol entering the stadium, no beer at all. You in Austria, for example. in Vienna or Munchen, Germany or Italy in Udin, Milan, etc. free to go for or to the bar in the stadium and on the stands you can also bring 3 dcl or half liters of beer and it is perfectly normal, it is common and none of that in any Austria, neither in Germany nor in Italy creates a problem. People come in, people watch games, people cheer, they're moved I don't know these fences between fans and players, and nobody thinks they're throwing something at the stadium to run, to fight, to crash, and to come into the stadiums exclusively, or to watch each other's fights, or to do that for example. You are participating because of football if you do not play Croatian football team in our stadiums when it comes to the leagues you have no god knows what to see anyway. We have here two ways to put an end to it. Or, for example, totally. liberalize the attitude towards fans or what to liberalise here is about how the police in Zagreb are now monitoring demonstrations or one of the maximum repressions to threaten the hooligans so that they will not just go on doing so because of their conduct they are blaming the country, for example. By vulnerable guests from Greece's Football Club, if I'm not wrong, Paok, or when, say, in our stadiums, they scandal "We Ustshe" etc. Which makes the world simply abject and something that's gone too far. The problem is clear when behind such groups and senior officials are either some executive authority of any football alliance, and I don't mean anyone from the management of the A team, I don't mean Mr. Markovic, but it's a problem when these individuals are instrumentalising the boys who come to follow the team for not their interests and when the media are later transferring or depending on the moment they don't. The media will understandably condemn any fight, any demolation, but rarely when they condemn some of the messages they hear in our stadiums. After that defamation of 500,000 euros from a black fund singer, there may be less black iconography, both at stadiums and at some concerts. We also need to understand that nowhere but with us that I know of, say, Serbs, perhaps with someone else from the Balkans, no one else simply flirts with those relapses of the past. But it's not being solved by repression, but I'm guessing some programs at school or somewhere else where children and young people might be told what was good in our past, which was bad. And that is why this article, Article 2, really should be supported where it is said among other things, "The illegal conduct in the sense of this law is considered an attempt to introduce, introduce and highlight banners, flags or other things with text, image, sign or other features that show or promote hatred or violence based on racial, national, regional or religious origin". It is also said here that illegal behavior is considered to be singing songs or throwing out messages whose content shows or promotes hatred or violence based on racial, national, regional or religious belongings. Then it's called burning and throwing pyrotechnics, running into a competitive space, not really talking about one primitiveism when any flag is on fire. I personally believe that this article 2 is maximum correct, but I think that in a similar way it should apply to musical events, and even to public protests, because individuals are trying in such a way to draw clear attention from that civilized, cultural human. Similarly, when we talk about Article 3, it is said that "in the course of the sport competition there has been an unlawful behaviour of viewers on a larger scale, the official person of the organisers who run the competition is obliged to temporarily or permanently end the sport competition". I'm just asking myself if in Croatia it might happen, for example. I don't know, "Kill, kill a Serb" or anything like that, I don't know when "Mi Ustache" is running, etc. Is this one thing I would say a legal solution will also be applied in practice? I don't wrinkle. I think it's a matter of civilization needing to be with these young men and these girls today. [[Do not throw your colleague out of the bench, please.]] And to the guys in Istria who threw some orange paint at the IDS door, I'd say they're doing it with red in the future. Don't tickle, calm down. So what I expect is that football, and football has always been more than a game to become a sport where people will be able to hang out, where they can cheer for their country, feel proud of the results of those young men, the success of the team, and where no one will harm anyone. If we're celebrating in some sport, then we've celebrated first of all with this third place in Paris, so those Shukers, Bobanov, Bilivcev, Asanović, Prosinechkova, Ladić, etc. Generations. In handball, only powers, two Olympic gold. One gold from the World Cup, I think six silver medals from various competitions, not to speak now about Janica, Kostelics, the Bouzettes who were European champions, etc. However, regardless of all football is a clear law and you can freely say that this law is written precisely because of opportunities in our football. And that's why any misbehaving in stadiums or in the streets should be clearly prevented because it's harmful for both the country and the sport and the nation, but as I would say, they don't need a gentleman's representative as soon as possible before hoarding these young people, I would say against some values, calling them hooligans, comparing them with people who simply burned and burned in the '30s and so on. They're interesting and other provisions, first of all, I mean fines, they're also dragonish. They go hand in hand with these prison sentences, so that's what they say here, for example. a fine of 2 to 15 thousand kuna or a prison sentence of 30 days will be fined by a natural person if he owns or consumes an alcoholic drink, etc. other pyrotechnic means. For these pyrotechnic means, I understand, but I really think you should allow it in those stadiums if nothing else is consumed by that beer as suggested by the HSS club. Not to mention these fines from 5 to 50 grand, from 5 to 25 thousand kuna and so on. All in all, I think the MPs will support this bill, but we will see if the police will apply the provisions of this legal text.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70352	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70353	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would correct, there are several incorrect allegations where Mr. Cain points out that Croatian fans are Ustashaid, that he is surprised that the games are not interrupted. I would like Mr. Cain to come to Vukovar when the Red Star fans' buses and Partizana are organised, three fingers show, another defender stands out in front of the bus and yells "This is Serbia, this is Serbia". Then why don't you ask them to sanction themselves, and Croatian fans and defenders were born here, and many have given their lives, and for us are hooligans, and not those who have destroyed Croatia's state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70354	Before I give my colleague Kaja's injury to the Rules of Procedure, I must conclude that there has been no correction... A colleague of Caine's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70355	So if there's anything to sanction them... Tell the secretary of state who is also from those areas, who knows these opportunities, and let the future police do their job. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70356	Now I can kill two flies with one blow. Neither was it the correcting of an incorrect allegation, nor was this the violation of the Rules of Procedure. And no matter what our people say, "the kid pops out" but vandalism doesn't mean that I'm asking you to respect each other. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Representative Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70357	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this seems to me to be the fourth attempt in six and a half years to answer the problem of how to reduce, not to say completely eliminate the riots in sports competitions, and it seems to me that the answer to why we're not doing it exactly, so the answer to that question why we're not doing it lies in why for the fourth time in a relatively short period of time we're doing this job. So it seems to me that we're doing this job wrong, and that's why it seems to me that we can do it in a very soon time, hopefully it won't come to him, again, to change this law. In fact, chronologically can be followed every time in Croatia, normally on football grounds, one or more incidents occur, usually one major incident, we are dealing with a new law in the Assembly, and normally this law definitely does not solve the problem. And I'm surprised, in fact, that those who deal with this problem in the government don't actually see that it's not only a problem in strengthening repressive measures, because that's where we'd have results so far that we shouldn't be able to change this law again. Now, it's interesting, then, that we're surprised that there are riots and violence happening on sports grounds, especially in football. Well, we actually have this problem that we all have a problem with football. We actually have violence in the main body of football in this country, and then we wonder what's happening to us on the ground. Well for the simple reason, it's nothing but a reflection of what's happening to us at the top. And now, to be absurd, even greater actors of this violence in that football body are in a position to write to us and sit in a working group that writes this law and then we have to discuss it. And I'm not going to tell you exactly what kind of problems they've had with the media, etc., etc. At the very least, it seems to me like it's inconclusive. In fact, the key question is what this law wants to achieve. So, what we're trying to achieve is that we don't have violence at football stadiums. How many, for example, did we actually have during this period between the two laws of serious infringements, or during last year? Proposer says in law there were eight of them. Do you have any idea how many were in each other's accounts and the violent outbursts that were sustained in 2009? According to the Ministry of Interior 1136. And now I ask the question of how are we in this House dealing with eight injured people and giving them so much importance, while at the same time ignoring one fact that in Croatia, minor violence and that in 2009, we had 1136 injured. I don't mean to be an evil prophet, but it seems to me that 2010 will be an even bigger problem. And you know what, I'm particularly bothered when we're still referring to the British model, that's the famous Tacheri law on reducing violent behavior and cheerleading violence. I don't know if you know that since 2006, the biggest part of this law and the provisions of this law are no longer applicable, in fact that the British passed a new law in 2006, a law that says something else entirely, and it seems to me that we should go through this, which is the Safety Act in sports competitions. We constantly avoid actually dealing with the complexity of this problem and try to focus all the stories on the hooligan outbursts. I don't think that leads to a solution to the problem. I say and repeat, I'm afraid that after the next story that's about to happen to us because to say that history is on my side, we're actually going to go back to even more repressive methods. And my question is actually where is the end of these repressive methods. So for those of you who don't know, so in Britain, it's not such a great situation. I'll give you two last seasons of football. Football season 2007/2008 There were 114 violent incidents. We're talking about the Great Britain we're calling for a role model. And you know how much it was in 2009/2010. In football season? Well, 220 and one violent behavior. Now I'm not so sure that we need it as a model. So I'd like to actually point out that we have to go according to some other laws. Are we going to go according to the Sport Act, whether we are going to try to define what the problems in Croatian sports or sports are, however you will, and then they ultimately lead to violence. Now you see. If so, then what we had in practice so far, which is that the conditions in the stadium and the organizers de facto, regardless of what is in the law so far and what will actually be written in the future never correspond or in rare, rare situations. I'll take an example for you. I don't know how you're going to get the organizer to sell a limited number of tickets when, for example, you can't first or you'll find it very difficult to determine the capacities of any or most of the stadiums in the Republic of Croatia because things aren't numbered. There are standing places, etc. etc. Therefore, I appeal that we finally start dealing with real issues and real problems. I know that we will, in a certain way, touch into certain interests and problems, but it is our duty and our business. So there's no way that we're gonna solve this problem with repression. This problem may solve what two or three hooligans will punish, and the problem will escalate at one time or another. And it's not good that, according to football competitions, we actually define in a certain way the behavior in all other sports, or competitions, and then in a certain way we punish those who never in their stadiums, their games have not had any drawbacks. So, let me cut it short. What does this law bring new ones? It brings a few very interesting things to me. So I'm actually going to take a drastic punishment, that is, the introduction of certain criminal provisions, so I'm going to take an example. And there it seems to me that it's easy for this law to be in collegiate with the Constitution. So, in one way, this law treats violence in a football, or sports competition, and in another way treats violence outside of a football stadium. Here's an example. Let's say in a physical shootout at a football stadium or around it some hooligan rips someone's arm off. For that, it is said that the sentence is scheduled from year to three years in prison. Now you see. If in these riots, i.e. the pardons of the protests that are now under way, there is a riot again, and then some other hooligan in Ban Jelačić Square is tearing off some hand, and for this he cannot get three years, but as it says in the Penal Code he will be fined or up to one year in prison. Now I wonder, what's the difference between a torn arm in Maksimir or what's the difference of this arm in Ban Jelačić Square? So we simply introduce, we introduce actually two criteria, two types of violence, two types of hooligans. I think hooligans are always hooligans. Well, those who make riots in the protests make you a mess at football games. So I think that this superficial approach actually leads to only once, which is that this story only has some kind of political, not to say the daily-political dimension. On May 1st of last year, there was an excess that took place in Maksimir between Hajduk, pardon Dinam and Hajduk, and then it should have resulted in a new law. I don't think it's a good message. Or we will, let's say what else brings new ones around the passport. Therefore, this law provides that a registered, therefore, offender, who violates the Criminal Law may be taken away from his passport. I think it's actually debatable that you can take away a passport from someone because of a misdemeanor. So I don't have to explain the procedure for the State's Attorney's office to take away a passport, that the procedure is actually very complex, and that until you find someone you can't impose these special measures on them, or you can't take his passport. And you're gonna take your passport without a problem. And I'm not sure it's exactly by the Constitution and it's constitutional. So it just seems to me that now this law definitely introduces two categories of hooligans, so we're going to talk about hooligans. So we're talking about hooligans in sports competitions and hooligans who aren't. I think we need to be concerned about growing juvenile violence and that we need to start doing this seriously, that we are not going to reduce juvenile violence by sanctioning those who, therefore, conduct themselves hooliganically at sports sites, rather than actually doing counter-actions to reduce general minor violence and violence, otherwise we are going to reduce this. In fact, it seems to me that all these solutions to which this weighty law will be at all difficult to implement, or I don't know what their purpose is, zero tolerance to alcohol. I mean, it sounds very nice, very demagogue. We had this debate a few years ago when we went and when the ministry came with that proposal and it gave up. I'll just say one implication of this decision. You will, in fact, destroy a number of sports clubs on whose stands there has never been an incident, where more fans come than at all football games together. But you're going to say Club Medvestack with this destroyed. You know that the Medvesjak hockey club is financed in a good way by selling sponsor beer at its games. And there's never gonna be any incidents in these games. There's never gonna be any incidents. Now you see, did you wonder what would happen to that club? There's gonna be a disaster. You're just going to give them significant sponsorship. So I think it just went very superficially and very, very politically not to say anything else in the preparation of this law. So it just seems to me that in fact, this law only puts off serious dealing with this problem again. Otherwise, the series is still issues, and there are still open issues to discuss. I definitely think the story is next, which is that it has to change the Law on Sports, and that through that law, but through this law, organisers must do the full answer. I assure you for the first time when one of the organizers deliberately says football games get punished the way they're supposed to be punished, we'll get a positive effect, by that time it seems to me that we won't have any effects. So I don't want to talk about some other things that actually seem completely illogical. What perhaps, no matter how long that law has been acidified here in Parliament and in procedure, I don't think time has been used at least to improve it in one part. Here I would like to ask the promoter, given these dilemmas that I have shared and with some colleagues before this speech on these possible constitutional issues, to say the same criminal act, so by the law that should be above this law punishable in one way, and with that being punished in another way, and related to the passport, perhaps you can explain to us, because I believe that you have conducted some consultations regarding here, let's say these two key questions. So my conclusion is this, that this law will not change unfortunately anything, and that we should be seriously caught up with this job, after all, and the English took 10 years and a little more to realize that Thatcherin's law does not solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70358	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS, HSU representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70359	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2003. We heard from fellow Lucin, we're going on Friday, when we vote on this bill for the third correctional exam. So every two and a half years this law returns to our benches, and the question is what we have achieved and what we will achieve. When his colleagues and colleagues last changed him and complemented him, it was in April of 2009, then we concluded: that with new protective measures we would be far more effective. What measures did we take then? It is a ban on attending certain sports competitions by wrongdoers, with the obligation to report to the police station, or even with the obligation to stay at the police station, then prohibiting going to certain sports competitions abroad, we finally increased the fines by then as well as prison sentences. And I'm asking you what we've achieved? Very, very little or nothing. Here's some data that might allow us to conclude the reasons for such a bad result. In fact, police have been following the wrongdoers in numerous competitions, and in the period between past amendments and the addition of the law, so from April 2009, until the first reading of this law, police have brought in a thousand 652 wrongdoers. Of that number, police have tabled an indictment proposal for a thousand 380 wrongdoers. I repeat, one thousand 380. We need to ask our colleagues and colleagues how many of them are eventually punished. Namely, these misdemeanors threatened other people's lives, other viewers, destroyed property, etc., etc. The colleagues and colleagues of the criminal courts punished out of a thousand 380 registered only 121 persons with protective measures, 95 offenders were fined fined, and 15 of them received a prison sentence, so a total of less than 15% of those against whom applications were made. So far, we have had the opportunity to punish the wrongdoers and be far more effective, but we were not. The police are probably the least guilty of this situation, that's my deep conviction. That's why our HNS club, HSU, will also support this bill, only because the police believe that this law will make their job easier. However, courts, clubs, sports alliances, colleagues and colleagues certainly do not deserve a passing grade. That I hope you agree with me. No club has been punished for this because it has not provided legally prescribed technical standards in stadiums. Not one. Furthermore, the misdemeanor courts did not inform any sports alliances, and then neither could this one inform the clubs of who was being punished and who should be careful not to come to stadiums, who should not be sold tickets etc., etc. So there was no, almost no coordination between all those who were to participate in this process. The promoter now believes that new repressive measures will improve the situation in stadiums. It is proposed that we prescribe a new form of illegal behavior by masking, a zero tolerance to alcoholism is proposed, our objections stand as they have already been brought here by several clubs that have had the opportunity to speak before me. It is further proposed to make more precise commitments by organisers, on the organisation of the competition itself, that the possibility be given to police to prohibit the maintenance of sports competitions, in which cases the organiser will have to do so, it is proposed to pursue the forms of illegal conduct now as criminal acts, to propose the introduction of a ban on attending sports competitions based on knowledge of earlier illegal behaviours, to take away travel documents for those who could potentially create riots abroad, an increase in monetary and prison penalties is proposed. It is proposed that data on misdemeanors are now provided by courts, provided by courts to alliances and clubs so that they can join this network of organisations, which should certainly be strengthened if we are to achieve better quality results. We are further at first reading, Mr. Secretary of State, warning of some illogicalness of the text itself that could be interpreted in various ways, and we are skillful to play the law precisely because it is sometimes not completely clear, so they have warned of the text in Articles 3, 4, 14, 20, 31 and 34. Some remarks are seen accepted, some are not. But colleagues and colleagues are deeply convinced that it is not the solution to supplementing and amending the law every 2.5 years. Please, let's try to run an analysis of the law itself once. Let's try to see who's in favor of this, then try to take concrete measures towards those who have failed to meet their legal obligations. We never did that. The process includes schools and clubs and sports alliances. Clearly, all of them today are practically in the debate and we didn't mention God knows how detailed or we have the information clearly for it. Therefore, we really believe that this is a complex matter and that it is equally important and comprehensive to approach an analysis of the reasons why we have not been more successful, not constantly changing the laws because we will not achieve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70360	Thank you very much. It is on behalf of the HDSSB Representative Boro Grubisic's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70361	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The cheerleader law that's supposed to be a cheerleader law is actually a law against real fans. I'll explain why I'm saying it. This is already the fourth attempt of a legal framework to help and definitely solve hooliganism in sports competitions. I say hooliganism and say prevent, but what the government is planning and doing has no purpose of actually eradicating hooliganism but by what is prescribed here it seems that the aim is to eradicate the viewers. I say, viewers. The law in its name has the word prevention now completely focused on punishment, on repression, on bans. And in all these amendments to the law, the fourth time prevention has forgotten the category. With all this, our officials who declare themselves truly like those who would prevent something at the same time behave differently. Here is a photo from February 2, 2009 where Mr. Prime Minister escaped Ivo Sanader and his Deputy Prime Minister, today the president, drink champagne at the Handball World Cup in Arena Zagreb although it was then forbidden to pour alcohol at sports and sports facilities. The former Prime Minister, who was in charge of, mostly, the English model of law and legislation in order to introduce himself to us at the Medvestsque game in Medveškak's uniform with the Medveshka joke drinks beer without foam, so very recently. ... No, it's beer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In view of these facts, I have recently seen a graphite in Slavonski Brod on a failed, caved in Hotel Park, which was clearly privatized in HDZ's way otherwise brought and led to ruin and bankruptcy, reads like this: "Djurdja nada 4 Pana and the Law on Fans." Well, what do fans say about this bill? What citizens say, peaceful citizens who would like a great visit to the matches of their clubs, who would like to travel to the match from Osijek to Split, from Zagreb to Osijek, Vinkovce, Split, Sibenik, Zadar, and have complete security. What do they say about this law? They say it's forbidden now. If so, the law goes through the parliamentary procedure. It's forbidden to drink beer, it's forbidden to light up a Bengalka says etc., it's forbidden to make clear violence, and I don't approve of it, but as someone here as Mr. Lucin said if they fight in the park, then it's a violation, if in juvenile delinquency and violence, 1140 people were killed by statistics for the past year, and in sports riots 8 then we're going to treat each other legally and legally. Is that inequality, let me put it that way in front of the Constitution? To take away a passport from someone, I know it was taken away from a passport back in the '90s because of some other things and therefore one political inexperience or a political call for delinquency and disagreements with the then socialist, communist rule, etc. It was like that. Shall we declare the fans undesirable? Shall we take away their passports? Are we going to get an HNK theatre from the stands in Maksimir, Split, on Pomljeno? And one more thing, when I mentioned the Man and our President of the Parliament admired the baklads on the Man at the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of Hajduk. And it was beautiful, from Dubrovnik to all over Croatia to say, mostly in Dalmatia clearly. But no one condemned it. I don't remember anyone, even CNN. And CNN passed on to Hajduk's 100th anniversary and the torch that no one on CNN has ever convicted abroad. Beautiful painting, not one torch on the ground. That's the goal. So you know if the torch turns on where it works. It's also known that there's a space, like smokers, a place for torches, so you guys just hit it, right? It's known there are cameras, there's known to be video surveillance. Today technology is fantastic, so there are cell phones, and let alone video surveillance, 40,000 people are being monitored by cell phones being traced according to our minister's statements. Therefore, it is not the recognition of hooligans, it is not the problem to detect them, it is not the problem to identify them, so if it is necessary to arrest and transfer if it is as Vice President of the Parliament said, but it was not about hooliganism, it was about General Ante Gotovina. So, who has a problem with 300 thousand people watching Medveščak this season and drinking a hectolitres of beer along the way, a hectolitre literally. Not one single incident ever happened. Then is there any real reason to ban Medesque from pouring beer? That's 6% of the alcohol I know. Is there a reasonable reason to withdraw money from the budget of that model club that thousands of Zagrebans are in love with, and also our former Deputy Prime Minister who put on Medvescek's uniform? Far from the fact that the victims of this law would only be Medescan fans. Victims are all viewers and fans of all clubs in Croatia. Hooliganism will not be prevented by this law either, but that is why viewers, fans and the way they party in the stadium are maximumly prevented. I'm not saying fun is breaking and violence, I'm talking about fun. Since it was organized by the Medvezčak party at its games, it is actually a prototype, it should be an example of other clubs in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the sport branch. So again, if there's a fight in the stadium, it's an incomparably bigger legal problem than if there's a fight, for example. in the park, the Haustor anywhere else and any public surface. What's a violation somewhere else is a felony in the stadium. The same deed, the exact same act. What Shime would say is that his arm was torn off. If you come to a game with 0.8 spills of alcohol, for a year you'll be watching the game at the police station according to this law. Now, if someone with the same strokes blames a serious car accident in which someone broke their hand like he said Shime or broke a leg is not the same treatment, especially as we already know if someone has a backdrop, then it kind of goes away with a lichen that would be said in Dalmatia or someone else goes through parole, etc. But he can go to the games freely. What's the difference in the car to have 0.8 proms and is it more dangerous to have at the stadium 0.8 proms? When it comes to the English and visiting the English delegation of the Croatian government that went there to England, I don't know how many days to see what it looks like there and what they've applied and how they took care of their own even though it wasn't arranged as someone said here, they have their statistics black, regardless of the laws and regardless of what we watch the game Liverpool, Arsenal etc. We see one truly order, we always see how many fans are at the stadium in number, at one. We never know how many fans are in the stadium or will ever know, we don't even know the capacity of the stadium. No stadium knows the capacity of its stadium. Maksimir doesn't know how much the fans cost, miss the organizers also make significant contributions, and there's almost nothing about the oragnizars here. It is true that the Sport Act was to settle many things, so the Fans Act would fit. Maybe it would be good to pass the Hooligan Act, not the fans. So, focusing only on fans missed our delegation in England that the English had arranged security conditions in the stadium, as the English educated police and security services, educated police in the treatment and residence of the stadium among fans. Today, most of the English stadiums can see communication as normal as they were the other day, giving the candy to the police outside the HDZ building in Zagreb, that's kind of the attitude of the English police and English fans, I don't say hooligans. It's a relationship, it's an education, it's a prevention that I'm talking about not enough. These are repressions, this law simply laws of repression. There's no ban on beer in England in the stadium. That's not true, there's beer in the stadium. Why again, as in many things, starting with what I just spoke about these legalization facilities again more stringent than Europe and civilised European countries, I don't know. And I don't think this law will prevent the hooliganism to the extent we want, as the zero tolerance of hooliganism says. This is more and trust me to see half-empty stadiums. It's gonna hurt the clubs. It's gonna ruin a cheerleader. I'm not talking about a non-hulligan spirit, a cheerleading spirit. You can't destroy the spirit of Hajduk in a Hajduk fan with no laws of any repression, as well as the spirit of the BBB. I'm talking about fans. I need to distance myself again so someone doesn't get me wrong. That's why a fan can't be seen as a prior by coming to the stadium. Fans also have human rights and rights under the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and should start from the precedent of human innocence. Not just to look at them like hooligans. Therefore, the HDSSB club will at least be restrained, and by Friday we will consider whether or not we will be against this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70362	Thank you very much. This was also the last debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. We'll start with individual discussions. The first is Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70363	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Therefore, in this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions where the law which has recently been amended and which is therefore the current positive law was introduced when it was adopted as a perfection which almost anti-ciprocated all possible future cases that will also be prevented, effectively sanctioned and where we will not have the need to change the law. However, that was not the case, and it came out just now and what we did at the time on behalf of the club and individually in the SDP happened and spoke. However, rulings felt that our fears were unwarranted and that the law would win absolute success. But now, indeed, after these amendments and even this final bill, we can rightly ask, on this note, what my colleague Lucin was saying on behalf of the SDP club, where the boundaries of this repression are, and clearly there is no limit when there is no consideration of the cause of hooliganism and his savagery. Where are the causes? We all agree and there's no person here to approve it, any violence, any destruction of other people's property, that I'm not talking about destroying a shared property, and we don't have to waste any time here, this light here, or spend elbows on our shirts or jackets. However, we disagree on the causes of this behavior and how to contain the causes. So that's what we're wondering, as my colleague Lucin said, and all of us here individually who are going to talk about it at the SDP club. Are we gonna change the law after every football game? Good legal solutions countercipe future dangerous phenomena, conditions, and then give advance answers to such issues, or problems. However, we are here caving for some events that cause a lot of revolt in the public, and then by law it wants to show in some way the will of the rulings how here they react to these phenomena, but these phenomena are escalating. As much as in the bill, although the law is changing, it wants to be demeaned in some way and to say that violence is not escalating, but that there is violence, we are now having problems exporting violence because these are precisely the kind of people who are causing major riots and the events that take place on other people's grounds, or in other countries. But the question arises, gentlemen, why the mess only at football events, games. Why there are no riots in other sports. When we proposed just recently the law, we had a bill on behalf of the SDP club that would commit to clubs or professional sport had to be professionalized, professional sport and their clubs which now operate the association which is nonsensus, necessarily transform into companies. There are causes, they get a lot of resources, a lot of money, and there's no responsibility. There is no responsibility in this and you here exactly in the assessment of the situation you establish it because you say that the organizers and club owners have not implemented the law and instead the penalties under the provisions of the existing law we are going to change the law and sumarum which is the result, it is to strengthen the repression. Of course, why not the repression, but she seems to have no end here. And you've touched something that you've caused great imbalances in our criminal legislation. The attitude was when the Penal Code was passed that we no longer have certain criminal incriminations, crimes in some other laws, that the Penal Code would unite all criminal acts. However, you gradually give up. Please, to amend the Penal Code where four new crimes are introduced, one of which has several of its privileged or more serious forms, is here on 31st, so here in one article we introduce one piece, practically four new and three new crimes, and here these three are still seven new crimes. When entering the country's penal law seven criminal offences are discussed by all law schools, iterkatral sessions are held at universities. However, so-called feather moves introduce so many new crimes from the country's interior ministry. It is not good, and we announce a certain form of attempt, it will not go away in Croatia I hope and believe, as much as the institutions have weakened, but it cannot pass. And Mr. Home Affairs Minister's statements on several occasions where, in one case or another, he transfers responsibility to the State's attorney's office or to another or to the judiciary, individually even to courts or to the Minister of Justice, the unprecedented precedent. This is not happening in other countries, no matter how important the Ministry of the Interior is in all countries, and on some we will or won't admit it, but we have to admit it always has a big impact on certain other portfolios. But no one will ever dare say that publicly, but that's common, that we don't talk about this Purda case now and in some other cases. It can't be. And now the ministry, so the government is proposing, but through the resolution ministry, so many new crimes are being introduced where the ministry of justice as a resolute ministry would never have dared to introduce eight new crimes so quickly. Well, we've changed criminal law on so many occasions, there's never been so many new crimes in one attempt. There is a crime when there is much to be debated, so did we not introduce a criminal act of non-payment of wages? During this power, it was abolished. On several occasions, we try to find that necessary today. The government rejects and says frequent changes to criminal law and the introduction of a new criminal offence would mean legal uncertainty. I couldn't agree with that, nor can we agree here, because it's a matter of legal certainty that a worker has a salary. But we're even talking about the introduction of some new crime. And not only is it an unprecedented form of repression, which is always a sure sign of the ruling, of a certain imperceptibility, but above all of the fear of the ruling for the position. This is always considered before the end of the term of office when new crimes are introduced, which means, and those who are in need of economic incrimination in Croatia, the protection of workers from it still has no speech. That's still coming out. That's been under discussion for two, three years. With this introduction of a criminal offence, let's say a special criminal offence involved in a fight or attacks on viewers or other persons as a special form of participation in a fight already in the existing criminal law could be a special sight when changes occur because the Ministry of Justice as a resolute ministry prepares these changes. But with his eye here, he does not see all the criminal legislation that is one building, which is made up of individual heads that are connected to each other. The relationship between heads is the proportion of the weight of certain crimes that are grouped in individual heads, not to mention the relationship of milder and more difficult form. You're here not keeping track of it causing a major imbalance between crimes and it's not good for legal certainty. We here in this, in our basic criminal code where all the crimes are gathered now more clearly it will not be for the destruction of other people's property regardless of what it means, is twice as much an impediment as it is in the Penal Code just because it was done in the stadium. The next day can be done in government or in parliament or elsewhere or in a public place where a large number of people are gathered, including protesters. Then what about it? You want to pass some new law tomorrow to sanction violence on this street or on that street, since there's no protest here. So that way we will not get out of the danger of growing violence. The causes of dissatisfaction, including violence, lie in the deep dissatisfaction of citizens, for which the government is responsible. Causes need to be solved, and then the consequences will be much easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70364	We have one replica, Mr. Sima Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70365	Respected colleagues are not the only problem that this law introduces new criminal acts, that is, as you said introduces imbalances in criminal law. In view of the indeterminateness, this law is also seriously played with human rights. In fact, it is not clear to me if you look at Article 13 in which paragraph 7 is added, in which way the distributor, or the one who sells the cards on whose knowledge and how he will determine whether or not he will sell the ticket. Because watch out, so what does that mean, earlier illegal behavior? I guess you should be standing here earlier convicted or punished. So that's unclear. I understand this decision and it's clearly written about the restraining order, so coming to the games and the need to report to the stadium. So, the restraining order to the stadium. But I'm interested, which means every card salesman in Maximir will have this list and pictures of those who are banned from access, or I'll have to buy a ticket every time I go, actually take out my ID card and introduce myself to who I am. You see, if that's the case, then the problem is that we're in such a orderly way entering unsettled stadiums. So I think the problem is much more complex than it seems at first sight. And it seems to me that some of the provisions of this law, due to their indeterminateness, will actually cause a very full public dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70366	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70367	What you're trying to say is that this provision is absolutely inconclusive, and I agree with it. However, the proposer of Mrs. Kosor, who signed here on behalf of the government, probably remembered the late Mr. Lenin who said that every cook would be a politician. Well, obviously, now every cashier's gonna be a cop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70368	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's the representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70369	Dear Proposers, it seems to me that with this law or this problem that this law has been trying to solve somehow we've been in a circle for years or we've been going after a spiral of repression. It's spiraling, it's ascending path. We try as a society to sort it out, but it doesn't go our way. The greater the repression, and the more the response to this repression through violence is, the stronger it is, and we can't put an end to it. But I think that's why we've been taking the wrong approach since the beginning. I think we should separate two forms of behavior, winding up in stadiums and hooliganism. This has nothing to do with each other, and the evidence that each other has nothing to do with it is these protests on the streets that have absolutely nothing to do with sports, where these same groups appear, attack the police and cause riots, commit violence. So we need some kind of law on the repression of hooliganism no matter where that hooliganism happens. And in that law, we can be repressive as much as you want. I will certainly support this because hooliganism as a form of nothing-provoked violence, violence that is the sole purpose of society must not be tolerated. Because if we tolerate it, then there's no end. So, for hooliganism, I would accept the strictest punishment. We're chasing it, though. We now try these hooligans to work through this law when they're in sports competitions. And where do these riots happen? Is that in all the sports? Well, it's not. Well, look, here's our hockey players have envious successes, so when you go to those games, you have to be proud of those fans. So that's where the fans of one club invite the fans of another club to say hello and clap to their players for whom they cheer. It's one example of sports behavior. So is there a water polo riot? Well, there isn't. Is it in basketball? Well, there isn't. He's at football games. But those football riots aren't in any relationship with football either. It has nothing to do with football. And those who come to make riots, so they're no fans, no clubs they don't support, they come running, they come to challenge, they come to make a mess, and they should be treated like hooligans, not fans. And then to approach this problem, to solve this problem, I think we would solve it much simpler and much faster than we're raising the level of repression for everyone. There's this hockey game, there's beer, and there's no mess. Well, that's where it's customary to follow hockey to have two, three beers. And those two, three beers don't move anyone to violence. But now beer will be banned there. Why? For what? When it didn't cause anything, no harm. And they were drunk or sober, and they would be sore because they had come to fight. They came with that intention, and they should be understood, so should they be described, and so should they be persecuted, and they should not be made mad, and they should be beaten as fans. What the hell kind of fans? What's the club responsibility? We have proposed the law that all professional sports companies be renamed... in companies. [[You don't understand.]] And why is that? Well, they'd step up their responsibility. So what can we do when they're citizens' associations and what's in their best interests? So they don't care if there's a mess or not. They don't have any responsibilities. Well, if that proposal had been accepted, he would have helped solve this problem. I'd help. He would also help with the state budget, because someone would finally pay taxes on the transfer of players, which now doesn't pay. A citizen who sells his old car has to pay 5% of his taxes to the state, and when he sells for millions of dollars, in euro million players pay the state nothing. Well, now that we're citizens, we want his 5% for the old car, and we don't want any of these. So why are we protecting them now? That's not clear to me. Do we owe them anything? Does the government owe them anything? Does HDZ owe them anything? Were they donors? Were they sponsors? So tell me, they were our sponsors, so we have to protect them, so at least we'll know why. And so we have a social problem that exists as a problem and that burdens us all, we slave in solving this problem with certain fictions, and it's time to sober up here, to reject all these fictions, to say fans on one side, hooligans on the other side, to work with fans, and not a lot of them, mostly normal, decent people, and these are not going to be able to go to the stadium, but they can't go anywhere where they cause riots. Hooliganism, you've got him in a black chronicle, they get together, they beat somebody up just to beat him up, so there's no reason for that. Well, find leaders of such groups, punish them not with 3 years in prison, punish them from 10, get them off the street, I doubt they've raised them, because when someone at that age is going to break, kill them if necessary, they'll kick a cop out of their sight, then I doubt he'll ever be an honest, model citizen of this country. They need to get off the street, because as long as they exist, they're going to cause such a mess. They're a threat to everyone, they're a threat to our children, they're a threat to every citizen where they appear. So the concept is guilty, this is going to hurt sport, this kind of repression is going to hurt fans who are normal, who don't need this kind of strict law, because they don't cause any riots, and they're not going to solve hooliganism, because if it doesn't happen at the game, it's going to happen somewhere else, and we don't have any effective weapons against them. So I'm about to ease this law, but to pass some new, special law, leg specialis, about suppressing hooliganism, and to sort it out in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70370	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70371	One of the good examples to at least partially solve this problem was this very proposal of the law that I mentioned and which is now detailed in detail, which was reproduced in detail by my colleague Stazic. So not only is the state not going to raise money from the transfer, it wants gas and everything else, and here it won't, it's against that privatisation, we have wood iron, so associations, sports associations where the professional sport that spends 80 to 90% of all the funds that are intended for sports in the country, or individual units of local self-government, where citizens' associations are formed, which get 10% to 20%, and now that individual clubs are in trouble and then what was reserved for citizens' associations go to such clubs. So that's the basic problem, and then they would, they'd charge the state, they'd unload this whole repressive apparatus, because they'd be given the task of being the first to be responsible for maintaining order, and then there'd be more. And the private sector, private people who are interested, is the best form, the legitimate form of their advertising. There would certainly be more visitors then, if we didn't speak multiple benefits, and there would be more resources for citizens' associations, for youth, and that's the best education, to reduce hooliganism and such inappropriate behavior. And one more thing, you said just like this once when you were talking, you talked and you mentioned what caused the cause arises and why the fans are being chased with the hooligans. Let's face it, we have people like that. You still don't want to see the causes, but then it really should be the law, a special law for hooligans, or call them what they were called in some countries, and don't confuse fans with these thugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70372	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70373	So a myth, which I have to admit, I can't understand, 150 citizens a day, workers in this country are left out of work, factories are shut down, they're going bankrupt. He goes bankrupt, goes bankrupt the other day, Vibrobeton goes bankrupt, everyone goes to the street. No one to blink, no one to worry about. And imagine the tragedies of some football club if it were to be renamed a stock company going bankrupt. Well, it's very important. If there's no source of sufficient funding, if no one's gonna watch his games, if he can't find his sponsors and go bankrupt. I'm sorry, Vibrobeton. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. They'll find a place to make money if they can play football. For those of Vibrobeton and Kamensky, I'm not sure they'll ever find a job again. And it's a myth that if we rename them to the stock companies what can happen to her, they can shut down. So what? So that myth I can't understand. But I can't even understand those in the Parliament elected people representing citizens who support that myth there. Which will not accept a reasonable solution that would help the state, the state budget, which would help to address this problem among other things, because it would force them to take some responsibility, as they could eventually be prescribed such penalties for the tolerance of riots or for the non-organisation of matches that would drive them into bankruptcy if they did not respect them. And then I guarantee you we'll do a lot more work than they do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70374	Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here continues the practice of changes after the escalation, and since 2003, when the law came into force through all the changes in 2006, however, as Col. Stazic said, we are spinning around, in a circle of bans, penalties, servings, etc. But the repression has never solved the problem, so I can't solve this mess either. I would agree that, as it is pointed out in this proposal to amend the law, that sports competition organisers must and clubs must actually bear greater responsibility for preventing riots because, as we know, big money is spinning in circles that are only an association of citizens, which are non-profits and who do not pay taxes. Also in the meantime since the last reading, since the first reading, it has proved that the law is not effective, has not affected certain groups of fans, i.e. hooligans despite the tightening of sanctions, let us remember the match in the 5th month of Hajduk – Dinamo. Therefore, a football hooligan group of fans can say that they cultivate such a subcultural style and, of course, it is very acceptable, tempting for people of such habitat. However, there is one danger, and it is a danger to a young rejected man who is jobless, who sees a thief who unfortunately dominates as a social value. And this guy and these guys are dawdling somewhere with beer in his hand or even worse alcohol, which we also see in the media every day in commercials, that man is young, full of strength, he's eager for work. Unfortunately, he feels miserable and frustrated. He hears very often leave me alone, comes to a closed door, unfortunately very often families etc. And he expects, and it's humane to expect someone to ask him how you are, to help him, to have someone open that door for him. Then such a disappointment he goes to his own war in which he breaks his head to the same young man who, perhaps, has another scarf, a joke of a different color. Unfortunately, we did not respond to the time in an educational sense. We have to think about how we can solve this society's problem with a stick. Perhaps we should turn to this young man, the synonym of the young, to see him, to hear him. Also to think is that everything is actually happening at football games, and lately we have witnessed that the media is full of football leaders who are fighting for power in various alliances of clubs for position, for money that is of course not taxed. Players sell, and inni earn. Maybe even the law wouldn't be necessary if it was a different sport law. Let's see and hear those young people, and there's no such complex relationship between fans' clubs. Again because of various transfers where ini earn and do not pay taxes. However, there is a simple solution with a message if you are going to make deliberate organized violence in stadiums then the only solution to the stadium is to close. I'd like to refer to a few articles. For example, Article 3, which says, "When during sports competitions, there is an illegal behaviour of viewers in greater scope, etc." I wonder what that means on a larger scale? It's not precise. I welcome Article 9 which says that more responsibility, of course, for organisers, then Article 31c speaks of damage or destruction of other people's property, citing again greater values. What does that mean, greater value? Zero alcohol tolerance is prescribed, i.e. no alcohol tolerance is allowed. But what does that mean? Is it obvious, if these are alcohol tests, they're not exactly as specific as that. I can't say how well I felt when I went to the games watching at the time of Holcer Valdic, Jonny Wilson, etc. Therefore, I would disagree that our children, or our youth, do not feel these fine moments in the stadiums. And that's why I think that we should teach kids the correct way to cheer, not aggression, through the stands, through education, to encourage children to actually have a positive side of cheerleading. We should unfortunately raise cheerleading groups. One more thing she would mention, according to some studies, is that fans actually said it was a problem, they pointed to the problem and alcoholism and psychoactive substances, but it's not just a fan problem, it's a problem of society that we haven't solved badly. When we talk about jail time and large fines, it's an effective method, but we wonder if there are enough officers in the stadiums, whether there are more cops in civilian, more cameras, more shooting to help them identify the viewers. I also think that there should be better communication of club management with fans leaders so that fans know what awaits them or that they have insight into what follows if the club does not support measures that should be supported, or if they act violently. I also think that awareness-raising should work to raise awareness of fan groups in order to reduce violence in various ways, including through inscriptions, cards, T-shirts, even the formation of a website or facebook group. Therefore, to fight violence is not enough repression, we need to be more innovative in terms of preventive measures, and also more responsible for this problem. And lastly, I'd say that in a couple of times we've seen examples of how it works, two categories of hooligans compared to how they're treated in stadiums and out of stadiums, then I think if they already have such an urge, maybe they'll calculate where this violence is going to work, so it's no wonder they might opt to be among the protesters. Unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70376	One replica, I think. So there was no waving the board. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go. Excuse me. What's it called, late-burning? ... The way I talk to myself when I talk to my colleague Stazic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How I'm with myself. It'll be an honor, a pleasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70377	Thank you very much. Comrade Bonačić, you're talking about repression, and you think that she's obviously going to get some effects. However, this is also questionable given the fact that I believe that the MUP is, as a pronoun, the one who made this proposal because the proposer is the government, what is the situation in our penitentiary system. Do you know that in many cases our prison facilities are now filled not 100%, 120%, 150% when the problem was burning a few years ago, when it was talked about by a public defender, but now we have over 200% in some penitentiary. And where will you please put these young men? Where are you going to put them? You want some murderers fired and you want to frame these people who destroyed someone else's business. Here you can see by the Penal Code under Article 22 for the destruction and damage of other people's things, the real laws have long been to relieve prisons and penitentiarys of the real difference whether the property is private or state-owned but you here deny one fundamental principle. So, no matter how private it is, I'm not saying that it should also not be punished perhaps even more strictly because it happened there. But you're introducing not only new crimes, but you're touching the almost general part, because these aren't crimes that are being prosecuted ex offo by official duty, but by motion. So they protect private property in a completely different way than it is protected by criminal law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70378	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70379	Here's my colleague, you yourself said that these amendments introduce new crimes, and I'll just repeat that the repression itself has never contained violence, so neither will this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70380	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues and fellow MPs. It is clear to all of us that sport in Croatia is one of the most important parts of society as well as that Croatia is a sports nation. It's more than once highlighted and that's what I say and we're proud of. So numerous Croatian athletes have their results, their successes in promoting and still promoting Croatia in that best light in the country. According to some indicators when we talk about some sports successes and the number of athletes or when we talk about the relationship between the results and the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia, then Croatia can be considered the country among the most sporting if not the most sports nation in the world. And that's what makes us happy, and that's what makes us proud, and that's why we work and cheer and identify ourselves with all our first representative teams, from Fire, Barakuda, Cowboy, how they came up with and named themselves, we're happy to dress up in cheerleading uniforms with certain motivational inscriptions, etc. Anyway, fans are part of all these events. A simple sport without competition would be pointless, and a contest without fans would also be pointless. And fans are actually holding sports competitions, not just for themselves. But on this occasion, when I say this, we talk about fans, so we're talking about people who sing, dance, enjoy, inspire and motivate their clubs and one word, I'm talking about people who love their clubs and who motivate them and root for them in the competitions publicly and show it. And it's nice to see a stadium full of fans fighting their team on the way to victory. There was a football game yesterday, I believe that most of the MPs were watching the Barcelona-Arsenal game, that they were just as impressed as how many people were there and how it cheered. No wonder that that arsenal van Percy player didn't hear the judge's whistle, he unfortunately got another yellow or red card, but from such noise and from such cheerleading is really little to hear. In one total opposite are phenomena such as a stadium full of smoke, such as illuminating lamps, etc. Bengali, deafening noises of cannon strikes, crowds, confusion, beatings, and in particular the furious destruction and destruction of space around them by a devastating crowd who also calls himself fans. Fortunately, such fans are much less than those real fans, those real fans who love their club and who cheer. But you know in that folk, it can happen that the wilds are chasing the pies, and for that very reason it is necessary to act in that sense so that such things don't happen. However, it is necessary to take this problem very seriously and to address it very responsibly and to take into account all the causes that can be caused by such negative behaviour and should be taken into account in an appropriate legislative proposal such as this one to cover all those measures and all those factors that may affect such inconveniences and such negative behaviours to prevent and eliminate them in full. When I talk about the causes, then the fact that in the first place is that whenever we talk about sports where such negative events happen, football always comes up. It's a really amazing thing and it's clear to everyone, to all MPs, to all MPs and to all those who talk about such negative phenomena. And that was also clear when we discussed the SDP Law on Sports two weeks ago, which proposed a single regulation of professional sports which unfortunately has not been accepted yet, or was not then accepted because the SDP proposal even though it introduced a certain order in the area, and thus in the overall field of football. Already then, most of the MPs and representatives of the ruling party have apostrophe of football as the sport in which the most problematic situation is. Well, here's what we've seen from these previous discussions: football is seen as a light motif, as a synonym of all these negative events. That there are riots on football grounds both national and international problems of the Republic of Croatia confirm that on the same day of February 24th, when we discussed the law, I do not believe that they have any connection, in Zagreb the President of UEFA Michel Platini was also in order to hand over a letter to the UEFA asking the Republic of Croatia to resolve the issue of riots on football fields within a year, while noting that he was threatening to punish Croatian football clubs. And then we wonder how people who cause such negative phenomena and riots on football courts can talk about that they love their club if it can ultimately take them out of the competition, primarily from European competitions, and also threaten representative Croatian football that is quality and everything else football can do in a positive way and give and show. So, everything points to the fact that just to say in the field of football, we need to look at the causes of such negative phenomena as riots, but also look for solutions because if we solve the issue of riots on sports grounds, then we will solve them in all other sports. Although I must admit that he personally hit me the most, watching and following the sport, I follow him a lot, the most mess in 2003 that happened in Kranj at the water polo match of Croatia and Montenegro. Why, because it was indeed an insecure destruction of space and everything else in another country in a sport that never showed such violent tendencies among fans. So it's at least left in my memory as one of the most negative cases. I remember then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ivica Racan, sent a quick statement of apology and regret for such events. And why football is the most negative, why it doesn't seem more energetic in football to solve such negativity. Among other things, it was noted two weeks ago in that debate about that law, it was about interests. Football contains the highest interests primarily financial and political, all others. Well, it's precisely the willingness to protect those interests that don't allow for more serious dealing with this. As far as this bill is concerned, it will certainly act in some segments to reduce riots, but I doubt it will solve this problem entirely. The majority of these activities prescribed by this law are laid down to the police, which is why most of the responsibility to the police is laid down. I would say by this law, if we compare it to last week's law, the police are prescribing some special acts in case of riots while general proceedings are being prescribed there. I personally consider him an addition to the law on police, as far as we can see him here. The main focus is on repressive methods. There are some methods that are or procedures that have a preventive character but they are also repressive as storage passports, reporting to a police station, etc. It's missing the role of sports clubs in all of that. In what way? They're the ones who organize the competition, they're the ones who sell the tickets. They're the ones who cooperate with the cheerleading groups and provide them with free tickets. They are the ones who earn from the competition right through the tickets, through the promotions, etc. or indirectly by selling players who show up in such games to be in quality. So they make money from these games and if there's a more serious mess then the police act and the cost of it comes from society. So the law is insufficient in terms of prevention, and therefore here is another sentence. I'm afraid this law will not solve the problem successfully and that there should be a reduction in repression, an increase in prevention, and this cannot be simply the only way to solve such a big problem. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70382	Now, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70383	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and colleagues, my dear secretary of state. In this term, it seems to me that this is the fourth debate, which in the first, which in the second reading in this law, was about the law, whether amendments, additions, amendments, etc. What's interesting is all four debates were in the afternoon outside the TV camera. Vice President, I hope the Assembly Presidency doesn't think that we MPs can't pedagogically and educationally act on fans so that it takes us away from this topic from the morning, so when the next change is certainly tradition says that once or twice a year we change it to be in the morning. I, Mr. Vice President, believe that's what I'm going to do. Second, as far as the law at first reading was concerned, the government was in the strongest. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Why isn't television conveying this?]] So the government was in the strongest. The vice-president, Mrs Adlesic, was the minister of justice, Mr. Simonovic, then there were several state secretaries, and all the following debates left only State Secretary Buconjic and he actually said what they had when they were all taking pictures, and he left all the fighting with the cheerleading or hooligan groups. So that's kind of saying that this theme when it comes to painting is usually the strongest people in the government. But when something needs to be done stays with the police, at the Ministry of the Interior who were left alone to fight them. Now, why did I emphasize this, Mr. Kulusic, because I think that at least the Ministry of Education should be involved, if not some other ministry. And I believe that those who did riots in sports competitions, that it's hard to act on them with more preventive and other methods, but that children in schools, in primary, secondary schools, so they can still be affected by the fact that these things in stadiums don't happen. What sport does the most mess occur in? So, in handball, in basketball, in water polo, in hockey where we play regional leagues or where the planned regional leagues were either with Austrians, whether with Serbs, Montenegrins, Slovenians etc. So there's no big mess there. Where we Croats play against ourselves there comes the most mess, so football. I'd say football games are just an excuse or a good cause for those who want to make riots to make them. Cheerleading groups, or I'd like to call them hooligan groups anyway, because I greatly appreciate real cheerleading groups and real fans. So, these groups can easily find a reason to make a mess, and then instead of at the games, they did it last Saturday at these protests. For example, one great rivalry between the fans' groups is in Greece between Olympiacas and Panathinaikos, so when they couldn't do a game riot, they remembered football games then they made a women's volleyball match between the two clubs, and it was particularly dramatic at the water polo game again when one group of fans tried to throw an electric light into the pool, of course, the one for measuring the attack. If that had happened, then there would have been a great tragedy. So there's really nothing to do with sports. It's just that someone wants to make a mess and that sporting events are just a cause. It would probably be the same in Croatia if there were not this many riots at football matches there would be a place and a time when these riots would happen. Here's the Croatian Football League started last week. We witnessed years ago a large number of riots at pre-war games. So someone finds out where the game was most about the Bad Blue Boys Dinamo in Austria, Slovenia, anywhere and makes a mess so the whole country has to blush. Now that we see what sport this is happening in, we can analyze another state, which is the state of the alliance, in the National Alliance, in the Football Federation. So, at the head of the National Union is the person against whom UEFA is conducting the procedure for homophobic statements. The ladder is held by another gentleman who has a slightly lighter history. He just flew into the city office and physically dealt with the headmaster. And then this third candidate, or other opponent, must have been suspended by all those who were with him at that second congregation because they were using security services at the first congregation. If it hadn't been for them, there would have probably been those that this Law applies to each other that at least they fight each other so they don't fight each other. Therefore, we do not have to be surprised that such a situation is in the fields and stadiums when even in the forums leading this competition is not much better. It's an institutional mess, though, but it doesn't matter. In this law, therefore, there are certain stricter sanctions for offenders. Basically, this is one less proof that the measures so far have not been fully effective, and I believe that this law also happens in Croatia, which is that we have good laws that are practically poorly implemented, and then in order to prevent it from passing worse laws than the good laws that are even worse implemented in practice. As a result, we will have more and more repression on the paper, as explained by the law, it is evident that many who, according to the provisions that change, should do their job, not only state institutions in terms of the Ministry of Internal Affairs but also courts that do not inform national alliances and clubs of those who have received some kind of ban, about clubs or owners of sports facilities that have not met the technical conditions prescribed by the law. So this is trying to fix something, we'll see how successful it will be. What I would like to say, however, is, regardless of the legal provisions, there is the police to enforce the law, all those who felt comfortable at the Pomljada about 100 years of Hajduk were certainly not thinking about what law was broken, but about that would be compared to the visit of President Bush on Mark's square, so when it's a good occasion then it can be tolerated, and I believe that in that sense we can also show understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70384	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Stephen Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70385	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70386	I keep stjepan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70387	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Representative Bauk, you have funnyly noticed the term in which the debates took place and discussions took place on this issue. Well, I could, or I could be funny, so I'd say that Parliament's presidency has a sense of sport, so in sports terms it sets a time for discussion, because usually these evening terms are reserved for sporting events, so here's a kind of obvious event for them. But what's more serious is the question that, where you pointed out that in the last debate, the government was in a much stronger system, in a bill like this, and in a debate about it. Well, that's exactly what I said in the debate, and now it's all down to the police, so most of the action, or their activities, has been taken down, and that's exactly what this proposal is all about, that the other factors that appear in the maintenance of sports competitions, in preparation, and in order to make a profit out of it all are missing. The police know what to do, and it's not her job to be the only one and only to say that segment that protects against riots in sports competitions and prevents it. There's no prevention in every way. And as far as the football situation is concerned, it's clearly about interests, it's very interesting, the president of the Croatian Football Federation is an honorary function that behaves without money, but it's very sweet because they fight so much for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70388	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70389	Well, since we're using sports terms, not only is it in sports terms, but since this session has been extended then this law has come in judicial compensation, making up for the schedule because it's been on the agenda since the beginning. I'd like to point out, however, that when we discuss this law, then we're probably talking about those bad things, there's a lot of good things, and I'd like to point out once again that this law applies to a smaller one, maybe in promiscuouss, a group of fans who come to a sports competition, and that a large number of 99% of fans, in which I include myself and others who feel that way in this assembly, want and root out correctly for their club or other clubs, if some of their competitors make a good move, and therefore perhaps we'll ease the blade in this part of the blade a little bit, not all fans, but that little part that makes riots. Unfortunately, the most talk is about them, because their behavior is just so that they deserve both condemnation and a little more attention, but we must never forget these people, therefore, who, when they see a policeman in the stadium, see in him a person who will protect him, and not who should be attacked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70390	Mr. Representative, Mr. Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70391	Comrade Bauk, this is the last of yours, the answer to the replica, is actually needed to be highlighted at the beginning. An extremely large number, thousands of young people are engaged in football sports, because I agree that this is mostly a question of football sports. Thousands of volunteers are led by these football teams, and young people, have an educational effect on them, direct them properly or as far as possible on a good path. However, the whole picture of the football organization is tied to the main management of the Croatian Football Federation and professional clubs of the first Croatian football league. Unfortunately, there's also the concentration of the biggest problems, because first of all, what's happening to fans today has actually come to the charge of tolerance, assistance, collaboration with hooligan groups, I'm not going to tell cheerleaders. It should not be noted that the police also had gentlemen's arrangements we will allow you to make a bakljad in 17 minutes, but if you make a commitment that you will not break from Rijeka to Zagreb on trains and on buses. So then some of today's club leaders also funded torches and various transparencys and support for themselves and their politics. And unfortunately, it's a situation that the whole league is over-netified with negativity, which doesn't allow the same people to fix something, but here comes the turn that only the police are doing it. I will not mention that there are x-functioners of judges and other public figures in the first and first leagues, whose actions in society should not be done by all laws, because they are punished or punished or under investigation for acts that are in proportion to what they are doing right now. But it's tolerated, and the result is this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70392	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70393	Thank you, Vice President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70394	Tolerance is always necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70395	But intolerance... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70396	Well, the vice president's always been tolerated, at least I can testify.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70397	I didn't mean myself, or you, or my colleague, Hanzek, but Marcus.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70398	I'll try in less than two minutes. You mentioned two things, one is the management of national alliances, and the other is the management of clubs. As far as governance and national alliances are concerned, I can say that this is one of the things, politics is in a bad voice, but the way politics works, Parliament is at least there to know who is who. They're HDZ, we're SDP, these in the middle are other parties, so we're chosen. And those congregations don't know who he is, they change, so they change every other day, and then they call the congregation at 11:00, and then they call her from one county at 10:00 to change delegates, and then they call her at 9:00 to beat these. So it just shows this one mess of governance. It's just symbolic how it works in alliances. And as for the clubs, we talked about something when we discussed the Sport Act. When you don't know who the owner is, so when it comes to these and such associations, then when you say they come into danger in a congregation where 30 of them are outvoted by these others, then they raise the congregation to 80 and bring 50 of their own and re-vote these first ones. If our bill had passed, at least the owner would have known, it would have been a sports stock company, so they would know who the owner is, and then the owner would have determined, and those leaders wouldn't have been so dependent on cheerleading groups that they had to be courted in order to keep some of their positions in the club. But hopefully we'll have more opportunities to talk about this law and sport all the way, so there'll be opportunities and something broader to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70399	And Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll say the same thing four times. The secretary of state is a living witness. This is the wrong name of the law, this law should be called the Football Hooligans Act or prevent football hooliganism. For the fourth time, I mention sports that have in the halls or in their stadiums three or four times the number of viewers without any incidents. We have a problem at football stadiums and only football stadiums. It was a year ago, two debates, then some used as an argument to boost the repression and how much it cost to secure an incident football game if you remember. It would be interesting indeed if the MUP regularly published that data that people, citizens of this country understand how much state money should be spent to play one round of the professional football league in Croatia. The Great Law on Football Hooligans and then the question arises and how many "Indians" are there? Or it's 100, 200, 500, 5 grand -- which I don't believe. I don't think there's actually more than 1,000 of them in the whole state. And because of the 1,000 fifth, fourth time law, I'm afraid that the fifth change of law will predict that all visitors of football games or sports events will also need to have with them the approval of psychiatrists that they are healthy. Which is probably not your goal. And that's why I'm asking you, in the MUP, why on your own, why do you allow all responsibility for the football field situation to come down on you? Why do you accept that only police repression is a means of making order? You are under constant pressure and are required to order the police. Of course the police are a significant factor. I warned you State Secretary in the second amendment to the law that those provisions that you put in place at the time could be interrupted by the police if, before you, it puts a great responsibility or I was waiting for the first such incident when the police would break up the football game, that didn't happen. So now I'm asking you why you're giving up pressure again and coming up with a proposal of increased repression against fans, so everyone who's entered the stadium, who's in the stands, who's had a beer around the stadium, two or don't give God after the incident found themselves in a race, crowd, stampede that leads from the stadium somewhere because they can potentially be sanctioned by this law. And even on the terrace of a cafe where a group of hooligans can be found that caused the incident. The Croatian Football Federation for me is the only culprit of the situation in Croatian football in this sense that we are discussing today and I have spoken and I will now say as long as Mr. Markovic is at the head of the CNS and the group around him whatever powers you ask the police to give you order will not be. It can't be because we can't make peace with the fact that you have to spend 2 million kunas or millions and 800,000 kunas to secure a football game without any of these clubs sanctioning a series of failures they've made. And everything behind it is normal. It cannot be normal that the Croatian Olympic Committee does not have the intended sanctions for sports alliances that really do nothing to implement this law as well as other laws of course. We can't accept any more of the fact that the Sport Act doesn't predict as well as this law of state punishing clubs. You can think after 24 hours of pushing around town, hiring 300 cops, I don't know how many special vehicles they're punishing the club with 40,000 kuna fines that they're paying off to the wars, for meals. And nothing to anyone. Why is the Sport Act not being implemented in part of the obligation to privatise football clubs? Why don't we have a rule that the state punishes when the Football Federation doesn't want to sanction the organisers of such a game with a tenfold penalty but it's a football alliance? Why don't we tell the truth that most often in agreement with the football club leaders of this group of hooligans cause riots? And no one's going to convince me that it's possible to bring so many arsenals and props into the stadiums without having inside support and help. In other countries that have had problems, you can let me finish the debate because I'd like the secretary of state to hear what I'm saying? Thank you. Wasn't it the English, or Great Britain, when she applied her methods of repression against the hooligans at the same time pressured her football alliance to sanction football clubs? In other countries in Europe, it is not the football alliances that punish clubs that do what our own are doing. We have an absurd situation. Clubs are private when they sell players, and social or citizens' associations when they need to get money. And the state finances a more professional football club when it sells players, and when it asks for money, it's an association of citizens. And when they do what they're doing, why do you have to propose these kind of repression now, you'll probably have to staff up new teams of police intervention teams to cover all possible high-risk games? They pretend it's none of their business. There won't be any effect even on this drastic example of punishing the fans who made that vandalism and the cop get their eye kicked out. It won't be educational, because the causes aren't that the police didn't regulate that she had no legal means, that there was no surveillance, that it was organized. And what happened afterwards as part of the football organization? Nothing. Why do you allow them to amnesty with that responsibility? Why don't you press your colleagues at the sports department to finally regulate that part through the Sport Act? All the anger goes on to you, if there are too many cops, if something happens where you were, what you didn't do, what did you do to break 12 trams, why didn't you respond in time? Well, we only hire half the police on weekends for football games. And now you've re-accepted everything to yourself. I recommend you don't do that anymore. From now on, these colleagues of yours in the ministry whose jurisdiction is sport must understand that the issue of sports and responsibility for the situation in sport also includes the safety of sports stadiums, that they, through law, football, sports alliances, and primarily through football alliances, can, with one provision of law, create responsible for this. You'll see that there's only one sanctions against the Football Federation without a viewer or God forbid you're out of the competition league. There's no major prevention, no major prevention when the clubs that do these, and on their foreheads are the same ones who deserve the name hooligans being kicked out of that league contest. We'll be quiet for the next 50 years. So I urge you to let this be the last time you agree to accept the pressure of both the public and the society as a whole that only the police are responsible for the situation in the stadium.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70401	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70402	Mr. Vice President. I agree that Mr. Prosecutor says he condemns hooligans and normally that our police are doing a lot of work, but I would say the same way that he acts at meetings just like these protests when they turn out of peaceful protests to shoot cops, hurt cops, do harm, so I think that Mr. Lesar should still act in that area as he suggests at the football field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70403	You weren't exactly correcting that, you were giving him advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70404	I accept this advice when I'm an organizer, you'll see there won't be a colleague if you're worried about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70405	There'll be nothing when you organize.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70406	There won't be a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70407	A mess. Replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70408	Dear colleague Lesar, I must react to several of your thesis. First, you call hooligans Indians, Indians are an honorable tribal people who fought for survival in their hearths. Second of all, you're saying that HNS is the sole culprit because he doesn't punish clubs. It's not a good thesis. HNS and clubs are the same, HNS comes from these clubs. They are interdependent; they depend on one another. Like clubs like that and HNS, nothing can be expected better. It's only the government's fault he doesn't understand the problem or he doesn't want to understand it. You're saying this law should be called the law on riots in football stadiums. But as soon as we're attached to the sport by setting ourselves up for the hooligan groups, we give them importance, we almost encourage them. You should understand that this sport thing has nothing to do with football sports, especially other sports. They're hooligans. When someone's able to throw an explosive device under a cop's visa, it's a clean criminal type. What kind of a fan is that? What does that have to do with football or any other sport? Any violence should be condemned, no one has the right to violence. Someone can understand when a man is challenged, when he reacts, but when someone attacks someone else for no reason only to attack him, then there's no need for understanding, and at least it can be tied to sports. We beat them up that they're part of God's little cheerleading group. Let's separate them from the cheerleading groups and the law. It's the only way to get rid of them. It's no different.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70409	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70410	Comrade Stazic, my line reads how many of those Indians are there? It was a quote. And I don't believe I offended the Indians by quoting our minister. And as for the second part of the claim that the HNS should be amnesty of responsibility because it's what clubs are like. HNS colleague Shuker is looking for an explanation that I think of HNS, so I gave an explanation. I wouldn't agree with you if the alliance had the same condition as the clubs, because there are league football clubs that I know have no problems with in their stadiums. Maybe the public doesn't report riots from other cities, but I'm following football pretty well, so I see four of the same clubs only show up as problematic when they're playing in their stadiums. But that the situation in the Croatian Football Federation is more than alarming and that is why they do not want to take over their share of responsibility, and unfortunately with the help and support of some individuals in politics, I remain. Is it just the government's fault he doesn't recognize the causes? I don't think so. Let's not amnesty alliances and clubs that turn more money annually than is in the state budget, science and higher education portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70411	This is nice to have a colleague named Lesar defend the government. And Madam Representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70412	Comrade Lesar, you said in your debate about this bill that the name of the law is actually wrong, that it should be called the law on football hooliganism. The truth is that the largest number or the largest amount I will say is so hooligan-related to football and therefore personally I am not a fan of football because actually Croatian football is increasingly just not a sport anymore. Right in football, what's important to say, turns away the biggest money, and the very important generator of hooligan behaviour of fans is the hooligan behavior of individual officials of individual clubs. The fact is that violence generates violence and, if you remember, we in the SDP have proposed the Sport Act and in it we have proposed that taxpayers' money be financed only by mass, so amateur sport, and professional sport is funded by one who has an interest in it. So if our law had been accepted, one part of the cause of such football hooliganism would surely have been eliminated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70413	Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70414	Thank you, Your Honor. At the beginning of the debate, I would refer to a slightly unusually long procedure that passed between the first reading of this law, and it was reminded in July, or early July, on July 9th, the law was discussed in the first reading. I assume that a day or two later was adopted, and this law in the final proposal, or in this final version, came into procedure on 10 January, which means on the day of the expiry of one of our procedures, namely the Rules of Procedure of the prescribed procedure. This wonders, since the first variant, i.e. the law in the first reading, differs literally from this law in the second reading in one single word, which is that the intoxicating ones are expelled and the rest are just drugs. I ask the question why it took the proposer or the Ministry of the Interior for a full 6 months to make a second version of this law, or a final proposal that is almost no different from the proposal we discussed in July 2010. I think it is very unusual and that the applicant should in any case be made clear about why he did not decide to take into account certain remarks made by opposition representatives during the first reading. I don't know, it's kind of unusual. I would say that what is characteristic of this law is that it relys largely on repression, and largely ignores prevention and the fact that repression for a state that is always like hegemony is a repressive apparatus is much easier than prevention. The fact is that repression can also be an effective means of prevention, but only if it is justified, limited scope and effective, that is to say, it acts only on those who are indeed perpetrators of certain bad deeds and are effectively punished because it is precisely through their effective punishment that some guidance is given to those who would like to be treated on some other occasions in a similar manner so that these actions do not commit. Unfortunately, so far, we have had a case in Croatia that when we talk about violence, the perpetrators of this violence were not effectively punished. The question is why, because if it were today, we probably wouldn't have such cases of violence as we do now. It is a great responsibility of the elements or bodies of repression and is asked whether or not such a position of specialis was needed if we have a well-placed system of repression as one of the ways of maintaining in principle some order in society because it is certain that other laws should be an effective means of combating all forms of violence, rather than just violence on sports grounds. I would now refer to the amendments submitted by my colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and I, and I don't think anyone has ever talked about this problem before. Our four amendments concern the problem of hate, hate, intolerance, discrimination, and even violence that different vandals and hooligans in sports competitions express or begin with people of different sexual orientations. In this respect, I would point out, or remind, that it is most common to run against gays at football matches and that, in any case, it is necessary that such a law, which in its provisions in Article 2, should be mentioned in Article 4(1) of that previous law to the various elements or methods of discrimination that are prohibited. So this is about racial, national, regional, religious and any other belonging, but it's not about not being offended and should not be discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation. This applies not only to this Article 2 of this Law but also to some other articles where it is regularly omitted, meaning this provision on the meaning of avoidance or prevention or any other violence by sexual or sexual orientation. This is contrary to one organic law, which is the Law on Discussing Discrimination which, in the first article, means what is the very essence of the whole law itself, and in that sense, I will also quote to remind you all because obviously it is not to you as proposings who should have it in mind was some sort of guideline. Therefore, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination states in Article 1 of this law to ensure the protection and promotion of equality as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, the assumptions are created for the achievement of equal opportunities and regulates the protection against discrimination on the basis of race or ethnicity or skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national and social origin, property status, membership in the union, education, social status, marriage or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, genetic identity, expression or sexual orientation. Since football stadiums and sports competitions most often use expressions that directly call for the hatred and discrimination of people of different sexual orientations, the question is why this did not find its place in this bill. Does this mean that the proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, believes that harassment of discrimination on sexual orientation, or sexual orientation, is justified. I think it's really embarrassing. And in that sense, despite the fact that I believe that this law has a lot of inadequacy in this sense to potentiate exactly the repression that I do not understand in this law as effective, the future means prevention, but simply as one impotence of institutions in the current account with different vandals, and that is not only a problem so neither the sports competitions were required, that we were obliged to submit a colleague and I to this amendment. And I hope that the Proposer will adopt it, because we will surely adopt this law, because in this way it will show, that indeed, discrimination on this basis is something that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70415	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70416	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Holly, you pointed out immediately in the introduction that the repression here is highlighted as the primary form of solving this problem. And you said what I agree with is that it is to a certain extent effective, especially if it is known against whom it is targeted. And she's normal, so if the police put her first plan to solve this problem to be on the principle of repression. But what matters is who is carrying out certain police procedures in case matches are organised. We know that when a certain so-called. A risky game to then pull the police out of other police administrations, not just the one in whose jurisdiction this competition takes place. Who's the cost of all this? As long as it's all a society, as long as it's all a budget, not a targeted one who's really responsible and who's finally making a certain financial income from that game this won't be good. And that's why I said it was all put on the police force, it seemed to be responsible, and it just couldn't be the only way, the only way to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70417	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70418	Comrade Heffer, I absolutely agree with you, but I am afraid that this problem was not possible through this law, but it was possible to resolve it through our Law on Sports which we have submitted and which the ruling majority in this House rejected some time ago. Because if we had a more transparent answer to the question of who owns it and who answers it then the state and could charge the costs of such vandalism since club administrations are always the greatest protectors and guardians of exactly the kind of vandals that begin different actions. For what reason? There's a question, but it's really that bad. But here I am saying, the ruling majority did not want to accept our proposal for this law, and the lex specialis itself that speaks of preventing riots on sports grounds will certainly not solve the situation in which unfortunately it is known who drinks and who pays, and that always means that they are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70419	Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70420	We all know what has happened and is happening in sports competitions in Croatia, abroad where our clubs and teams are performing, and where our fans often make buildings out of breaking, burning, inappropriate cheerleading, fighting in stadiums, streets, squares, cities both in Croatia and in other countries, and causing enormous damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the Parliament a final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions. Let's remind ourselves. The law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions was adopted at a session of the Croatian Parliament, which took effect in July 2003. The continued monitoring, enforcement and application of the provisions of this Act required that the law be complemented by new provisions in order to be effectively applied in practice. At the initiative of the Ministry of Interior at the session of the Croatian Parliament in June 2006, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions was adopted. These changes and additions have led to a reduction in the stadium incidents, but there has been an increase in the number of incidents in the direction of the fans' journey, and frequent incidents by Croatian fans at visiting matches abroad. Due to riots committed abroad by Croatian fans, new amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions entered into force in April 2009. In order to prevent the riots of fans, to strengthen the criminal provisions and other sanctions against the offenders of responsible and professional behaviour of security and directors, I hold that this bill is well-income and quality, and that it is in the interest of all of us and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law, and that they are strictly implemented by punishing the wrongdoers and all those involved in organising and creating riots, and for the purpose of the final introduction of order and civilizational behaviour in sports competitions, it is clear to all of us that the behaviour of individuals and groups in sports competitions has exceeded every reasonable measure, and we also understand how order cannot be introduced overnight, but we hope that it will be introduced in very short time, and how the vandal behaviour of individuals and groups will disappear in sport competitions. I support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, with a final proposal for a law. And I am taking this opportunity to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for making and submitting a quality proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70421	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70422	Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Rios in Sports Competitions. I'll tell you why right away. I think it's necessary to supplement the existing law. The figures that talk about police treatment, the number of injured, the damage to sports facilities, and the means of transport during riots in sports competitions speak for themselves. From April 2009 to December 2010, 2,000 343 people were detained. During that period, 90 fans and 33 police officers suffered minor physical injuries, while 8 fans and one police officer were injured. The figures already say that the law needs to be amended and complemented. Whether these changes that are proposed will contribute to a better state of play in sports competitions. The ban on disguises, the ban on alcohol consumption, the sale of sports facilities, the more precise definition of the organizer's obligations, the introduction of a ban on sports competition for those already registered to attend a sports competition for those already registered and punished for breaking the law in country and abroad. It should be believed that these changes will affect fans not to make a mess. In all this, the attitude of club management towards fan groups is also a major influence. Speaking of cheerleading groups, I have to highlight the fans of Cibalia, and the group Ultras, who have been following Cibalia, Vinkovci and guests for years, with imaginative choreography, with a sharp cheerleading but almost no incidents, causing riots and violence. It is important that they isolate themselves those most aggressive, prone to fighting and violence. So far, here's the Saturday Cibalia game with Dinam, and I expect it'll also be at that game, that Cibalia will win, but I want to say something else. All of us here today in this debate are in favour of preventing riots and particularly preventing individuals with extreme behaviour on sports grounds, but I wonder what happens when they organise a rally against the Croatian government in Vinkovci? Then are they welcome, and whose support do they have for it? And even if he is a participant of the defamation and shame of Croatia in Malta, one of the organizers of the event, as fellow Lucin, in the name of the SDP club, says the hooligan is a hooligan, both at the game or at the protest, and the best answer to this call of such a gentleman who is the organizer of this event is the response of Vinkovchan to the rally, just wondering if any of the journalists who ran for protestors today in Vinkovci from those 50 different journalists, whether anyone will announce any word tomorrow that it is a person, that he is the organizer of the protest and that he spoke at the rally of a man who has been banned from Croatia because of the attack on police officers in Malta. Here I have connected these two things, I hope this law will still contribute to rioting in sports competitions happening in as few numbers as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70423	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70424	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culjak, I absolutely agree with you in that part that I am sure there will be no disturbance at the game Cibalia – Dinamo for two reasons. The first reason is because it is known that Cibalia will get, or better is the club and will win, that is the first reason. And for another reason, the Vinkovsky Ultras aren't exactly prone to destroying, creating riots, etc., there were no such events in the Vinkovci, so here's the two reasons I'm sure everything's going to be okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70425	The answer to Cibalia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70426	Here's how we from Vinkovci get along. We agree that the Ultras don't make riots, and we agree that Cibalia will win.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70427	There's another third reason, because I played for Cibalia. It was '62, '63, '64, out there. ... Then it was Dinamo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, I agree with most of my fellow MPs who say the government is responsible for what's going on in the stadiums wrongfully, and I think the government is aware of that and is passing this law to try to solve it in this way. However, I am surprised that the debate on the violent behaviour of the sports audience is only about the legal framework, and it is not about the frameworks that precede the function of the law, which are the sociological frameworks, ethical frameworks, sports frameworks, and the frameworks of media writing on riots in sports stadiums. I'm just going to try to briefly list just the thesis, not discuss them, so for the sociological framework of this is a very important social context, in every respect. In fact, violent behaviors are often discharges due to everyday life in stadiums, but also because of what happens in stadiums, violence is transmitted both to the streets and to society itself. It's very ugly when the symbolic violence of fans turns into real violence. Of course, considering the sociological component, we can see at least the possibility, but we also have a lot of examples that in some way confirm political manipulations with this violent behavior, sometimes as a manifestation of national, but very often there is one justice that promoters of violence do not yet become victims of this one and the same uncontrolled violence. However, for this sociological dimension of violence, it is very important to say that in violence, people who seek a way out of their anonymity are affirmed and if they get media attention have achieved their goal and become an example to others. The ethical framework of violence in stadiums is certainly in poor breeding, in insufficient work with young people at the level of society, affirming violence through the media as something that draws attention to itself and a hypocrisy in which it is very often called upon to God’s religious principles, and behaviors are quite contrary to religious principles. Hate for different people is everywhere and also at stadiums abroad. Recently, I attended such an event at the Roman Olympiac. The sporty view of this problem is also very important because it is also about what encourages violence, and it comes from the field itself. That's why it's very important to work in the locker rooms, at the club. It's important to feel the result fraud, it's important to feel that the game is set, it's important to feel bad, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's important, but it's also a bad organization. Everything within the framework of the sports dimension of the events themselves. Furthermore, even the media cannot take off responsibility for violent behavior in theatres because very often a very negative atmosphere is created before or after the event. It is important to an event that precedes and promotes itself in some way passion. Too much space is given to negative, passions are scattered maximum. This also results in bad examples, especially when it comes to those who want to come out of anonymity and thus make the criteria for obtaining their 5 minutes of fame out of anonymity. And of course, then we come to a law that should regulate all that together. Whether legislation is sufficient or not or the problem is that the laws that exist are not implemented in life as they should. Of course, the law is a certain way of preventing, but curatives are needed, and in the end, some surgery and if they would come to that. It should also take effect in the short and long term. There are also stories about how harmful England may have acted, or usefully, whether Thatcher's football law, by Margaret Thatcher, was welcome or not. I would use one quote that says that by buying tickets, organising ticket purchases and entering stadiums, the minimalized component of the violent behavior of the audience was reduced by one-third of the needs of police intervention, that the number of audiences increased by 30% and that 10 years ago, because the law was passed in England in '99. A year. In 2001, police arrested 3,300 people in the stadiums together. Of which 1500 at the first league games, and the rest at lower-class games. Of which, the largest number 1,186 was detained because of the result of drunkenness, so that the alcohol component is very important, 292 cases for running out on the ground, 107 for throwing things into the field, 85 for direct violence, 137 for attacking other people, and 82 for shouting racial or other inappropriate passwords. Of course, I'm talking about English democracy, English civilization much longer than our democracy and a very strict law. So, with all this, as far as the results are being achieved, there are still problems left. However, I hope this law will still contribute to reducing violent behaviour in stadiums to one minimum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70429	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70430	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Roshin when you mentioned components starting with social, then ethical, legal, media, etc. I agree completely with you for each of these components, but I would just add another moral component, which is that absurd that even such changes to the law who pays? They pay our citizens, which we have actually seen in previous reports. Who's suffering? They're suffering from the citizens. However, millions of contracts are signed, we are all witnesses of it, individuals are only profiting, but unfortunately the problem remains. In this way, I don't know how we're actually just going to repress and solve the hooligan savagery at the games.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70431	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70432	The law is a prevention. It's not just the law, it might be the instruments that the law predicts something that comes after, but the law itself is prevention like any law that is against theft, murder, robbery, etc. It's just a matter of how much the law is respected and how rigorously implemented. However, what you mentioned at the outset is a matter of enormously large contracts to be signed. It's something that's inside the segment of the sport itself. And I said that one of the five elements that I see in my mind and in others that I see as key to creating even a positive climate and a positive atmosphere, education and the rest is working in sports clubs. So if you in some sports are concentrated to see the enormous sums that appear of course to be, money always wakes up some low passions, I agree with you. But it's not a domain that this law can speak of and say, to regulate that the sums can't be large but the sums are small because it's a question of market economy and sport itself. But every effort that arises in this regard should be welcomed no matter how final it is. And in the end, let us give ourselves time to supplement ourselves, correct what Lenin said, "Learn, learn." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70433	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you looked at the problem of violence from all sides, you spoke so plasticly that at certain times I did not know whether you were talking about preventing violence in sports competitions or violence in sports competitions or violence happening on Croatian streets. You've said well that the instigators of violence often become victims of violence by the one who is being strove, from the sword and the dead. When you were talking about England and the instructions of the famous Iron Lady Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and all those who speak today that the UK has changed since 2006, I ask the question of how the UK solved the problem of hooligans, the problem of violence in its stadiums, if not certain measures offered by this law that we are talking about today, because I fear that without such measures we will not be able to get to those games that we watch on our screens, so full stadiums, families with children in stadiums and one completely different atmosphere. That is why and because of the state of sports competitions to avoid Heisel to avoid ever repeating himself in Croatia again, Maksimir will support this law and I agree with you that the law is one of the measures to prevent violence in sports competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70435	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70436	My colleagues in response to your replica of the five points through which I covered the problem of violent behaviour of the sports audience I wanted to say that fans were not by themselves to blame for everything and that observing this problem has a need for a broad context to discuss it. Of course, someone who is prone to violence on his own or to the aspect of which I spoke sociologically in which a form of manipulation occurs with individuals and masses and glue to those who seek out of anonymity, so it goes, applies or appears in all circumstances on all occasions. So the stadiums are just a space where there's a lot of things that can be expressed because it's about mass. Where an individual is cast out, he'll never react like that. For that reason, I wouldn't be surprised at those who say, why it only happens at football stadiums. The only reason is because there's the highest number of audiences in football stadiums. And where there are more audiences these are manipulations much more possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70437	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Well, here's a few words about the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in the Stadium. Which is why it came in the first place. This law applies to all sports courts, but because of football, it's either changed or because of what our hooligans do at football games in our country and beyond when they play the national kind or when they play our clubs. In fact, I fully support this law in order to agree with those who say that the cause of the two beers is not a mess. I haven't had a beer in my life, so I haven't had a beer, but I'd definitely let people who can drink mostly because of amateur clubs that live, and here's our Bear Man who's got it. Today there was a speech about how others did it. So the English didn't make any laws and they didn't get rid of the hooligans. Let's think of France, remember Paris, remember the others. They have solved one piece, however, no law will prevent it and there will always be hooligans, no matter what democracy is greater in the countries, more hooligans will be. We've got real fans coming to cheer up their clubs, we've got cheerleading groups, and I'd say something about them. There is certainly a good part of the hooligans under the roof of these fan groups, and then look, these fan groups organize transportation from Split or Zagreb, and we are talking and let's be honest, so let's say that this is Hajduk and Dinamo, or my Dinamo and my Hajduk club, one and the other, that there are the most problems in these two clubs that have the most money. And then we give them a cop on the bus that guards it, and then they go, and then they deal somewhere in the parking lot at the rest, and they fight with another group, and they get in the gas station, and they steal the gas station, and the malls don't beat people up, and they go into the restaurant, and they go into the cafe, and they get in the coffee shop, and they order, and they eat, and they get paid, and they leave. Whether they were driving in a van in which 15 or more people in it are pushing themselves organized or driving by bus, they are a group that are organised to have a ride. And that cop, unfortunately, can't do anything to a bus that comes to a 40th stop, can just look on the side, and they're doing the circus. And then when you ask those pumps, the merchants and the waiters grab their heads, they say I did well, I have 400, 500, or a thousand kunas missing, or they don't move any measures. That in that law, I also said on the committee that this law dealt with this formal and informal group, so-called. A cheerleader to ban them from working and not to be given at all. I know there's another answer if there's no escort, which they'll only do then. Then it should be made clear to the carrier that he is also responsible to that organiser that he is responsible for all that is done. We can't close our eyes and put our heads in the sand and say as they say today, constitutional rights, so we can't take their passports, so we can't shut them down. In Austria, container championships closed stadiums, containers included courts that punished them. And whoever tried to do anything at that championship was immediately taken into custody. The container and the judge was a misdemeanor, punished him... and that was good because people traveled by plane so he had to come with a passport to the airport, so he couldn't enter Slovenia without 100 euros, so the map was. So these people who are otherwise prone to these things couldn't. And then the question arises: I don't ask the constitutional rights of those individuals. So does anyone ask where the constitutional right is to that cop who lost an eye? Does anyone ask where my rights are as citizens when I'm on Maxime when I walk down the street when it's game time or in that part? When he's in Split or in other places. I think it's part with a good law, and this is a pretty good law, only if it applies on the ground itself that it can reduce that number. And as long as we have these destructive stadiums where these hooligans can enter past the gates, past the counter, past the main entrances, they can enter the pyrotechnics and everything else into the stadiums will be hard to enforce the law completely, except that at a certain point the game ends and says here are the organizers you didn't do well. And let us remember a few years back and the boards of Dinam and the administration of Hajduk that they were the ones who prepared both the pyrotechnics and everything else to put pressure on themselves during the match itself to defeat each other. And here I'm saying the law is pretty good, how it's going to be carried out in the work itself, he's probably going to have more changes, and the one in England has had a few changes. The English are from '45. We're 15, 20 years old. Anyway, in my opinion, hooligans don't have to be sorry at all, you don't have to pet them. I was the one who was disgusted when I saw on TV that a special cop who got down on his knees had a little leg to catch a hooligan, and everyone was talking about a cop beating him up by a hooligan. And if he asks anyone he beat, he's down there lying there, which is why he's lying on the ground. If you ask yourself, it would just be different. These people don't speak any other language. In the stadiums, there should be containers where they could be arrested immediately, a criminal judge and punish him immediately, and then he would look at it differently. And here, when it comes to these groups that go to all the games on the road, I was an eyewitness in one place, I saw what they do at these gas stations, what they do to merchants, what they do to waiters. They cover their heads like this, we went well, we didn't lose our heads. I support the law, and I'll be happy if this part changes that people really let go of one glass of beer or two glasses of beer, I don't see any reason, because if I had a liter of wine I'm certainly not drunk, I can also drive a car. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70439	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with discussion Final draft law on registering employees in the public sector. I ask all MPs and advocates and clubs to complete the agenda at 9.30 p.m. with those two points that we failed to supplement today so that here present representatives, especially those behind the stage of preparation for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70440	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, this is the second reading, P.Z. No. 556. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the club of representatives of HSS, the Club of Independent Representatives, joint MPs Mirela Holy and Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. I ask State Secretary Ivica Buconjic's representative to declare the amendment. First, Amendment 1. Article 2 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70441	Excuse me, I had two laws. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70442	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 2 to Article 8 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70443	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70444	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The third amendment to Article 10 shall apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70445	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70446	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. I Amendment 4 to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70447	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70448	It becomes an integral part of the bill. We have an amendment to the Independent Representatives Club on Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70449	The amendment is not accepted since the issue has been resolved by the adopted amendments to the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70450	A club of independent agents? Anybody here? There isn't. We vote when he's gone, so it's unacceptable. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's move on. We have a joint amendment of Ms. Mirela Holy and Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić to Article 2, first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70451	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, MPs suggest that the provision be extended by adding that, in the sense of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation in Sports Competitions, it is also considered to be an extenuation of Fascism and the promotion of hatred or violence and on the basis of sexual orientation or any other belonging. Where the amendment submitted is to be adopted as provided for in Article 4(1), paragraph 5. The law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions with illegal behaviour within the meaning of this law would be seen as an excelling fascism among other things. However, in this case, the provision will not include the expansification of other totalitarian regimes and it is noted that the 2003 amendments to the 2003 Penal Code, which the Constitutional Court completely abolished, were one whole head of criminal acts, the expansification of fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian states and ideology or the promotion of racism and xenophobia. It is also visible from this point of view that the issue proposed by the MPs is settled in the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination. And those illegal acts are prescribed to be taxed. In the event of acceptance of the amendment submitted pursuant to Article 4(1), paragraph 5. The law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions with illegal behaviour within the meaning of this law would be considered to be, among other things, discrimination based on any other belonging, which is not defined, thus opening wide possibilities of interpretation of such a standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70452	Thank you. Ms. Representative, there's no one else. We're voting on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of the same legislators to Article 39 shall apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70453	The amendment is the same and the same explanation is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70454	Unacceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70455	The amendment is the same as before and the same explanation is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70456	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment to Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70457	Also, this third one is the same as the first and with the same explanation is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-09-0.u70458	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He wasn't accepted, he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Unwork in Sports Competitions. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted with a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 22 against, together with the amendments adopted.
