ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68111	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy in accordance with the Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme of July 2006, as well as the Decisions on Amendments and Supplements of March 2009, shall carry out the following activities: Monitoring and monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, systematically monitor and evaluate the ways and results of the implementation, propose measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the National Strategy, encourage and direct the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of the national and other bodies and other factors responsible for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. It is necessary to consider proposals, complaints, views and opinions of citizens and legal persons by means of its action and establishment of the National Council to strengthen the supervision of the bodies responsible for the implementation of the National Anti-corruption Strategy. I quote these duties of the National Council that there would be no misunderstanding about what the National Council is actually doing. The report covers the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010 and during that period the National Council worked in the composition of Mrs Lovrin as Vice-President and members of Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Stanko Grčić, Dragutin Lesar, Prof. Dr. Horvatic, Stjepan Kolarić, Nikola Kristic, Branko Roglic, Smiljanka Škugor Hrnčević and Prof. Dr. Stephen Turk. During that period, 11 regular and 3 thematic sessions were held, and a total of 30 regular and 10 thematic sessions have been held since the establishment of this National Council in May 2008. Three questions are crucial for assessing the ability of Croatian society to resist corruption. The first question is whether corruption exists and as it is viewed, the second question is what is the breadth of corruption and in which areas is the most dangerous for society, and the third question continues to respond to the previous two, what to do to prevent, detect and sanction corruption. On these three issues, we find answers in our Strategy and the Action Plan to combat corruption, whose implementation is supervised by the National Council of the Croatian Parliament. Corruption in Croatia is a real and serious problem. We all agree that some progress has been made compared to the earlier situation, but we are still lagging behind some other countries. Take, for example. Slovenia... Perceptions are 6.4 and ours is 4.1. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's only five passing grades, it's always important to emphasize. Of course, it is not just an exclusive problem for Croatia. In fact, from a total of 178 countries in the world that assess Transparency achieved the result below 5. Anti-corruption measures must be integrated into all spheres of public policy and everyday life, and of course good governance, good governess, as it is said, is a key part of the response to all the problems we face today in Croatian society when it comes to corruption. Corruption is not simply a political programme of some party or newspaper title. It is the structure and method of governmental obstacles to decent society, useful work, responsible government. Corruption grows out of fear, passivity, ethical and material poverty, flowers in ignorance, bureaucracy and faceless society. Therefore, in a successful fight against corruption, it is necessary to remove ignorance and fear, and this is not just the work of the USKOK, the DORH or the jumping courts, it is the work of the whole society. I also see an even more important role here in the National Council, especially in education, the media, the family and I stress a politician, from a local community, a local committee in the smallest municipality to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should always be stressed that perception is not the same as the actual spread of corruption, according to research in Croatia. Perception in all areas of society is smaller than the actual meeting of citizens with corruption. However, it is indicative that the perception of corruption has been on the rise for the past 15 years. That's how it is, for example. 1995. 15% of respondents said that all civil servants were corrupt, in 2004, the percentage was 23 and in the latest survey of the Faculty of Law in 2010 as much as 46%. Another very interesting piece of information, 2004. 72% of Croatian citizens considered corruption in state services to be widespread, with a percentage of as many as 82% of citizens in 2010. It is also interesting that the perception of corruption declines with the degree of education, so those with lower education consider corruption in state services to be more widespread. The rise in perception is necessary at this stage in connection with the decline of trust in institutions, and the biggest losers of the church, the Government and the Parliament, and the biggest media winners are primarily printed media, compared with the latest survey in 2010. In this environment, the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy should also be monitored. Personally, as president of the National Council, I must say that I am extremely pleased with the work of the National Council. I claim that the National Council model that was adopted by this House is an excellent model, and for that I also received confirmation at several international conferences at which I represented the work of the National Council. The model under which the National Council makes up 5 MPs and 6 external members, and the president comes from the ranks of the opposition, provides the National Council with the possibility of being critical, but just, of promoting its proposals and constructive criticisms against corruption. In addition, it is also an assessment by the European Commission which, in its visit to Croatia report from 29 June to 2 July 2010, and in particular in the introduction of common positions of the European Union on the assessment and fulfilment of the conditions for opening Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights say. I quote: "The European Union sees the growing proactive and encouraging role played by the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy." The European Union encourages the continuation of such a proactive approach in monitoring the implementation of the strategy, including by proposing corrective measures in the strategy and action plan, and by introducing regular public debates related to corruption. It's just a model of the National Council's work. According to the conclusions of this National Council adopted in the Parliament in February 2010, 12 recommendations are made to the holders of the Implementation Strategy for the control of corruption, and I will single out only 4. Strengthen cross-resorship cooperation specifically of the Public Procurement Office, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, State Audit, DORH, Tax and Customs Administration and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. To further improve the inter-resorship co-operation between the MUP and the DORH, to include all ministries in the action plan as direct holders of anti-corruption measures, and to develop specific action plans with clear deadlines, holders, indicators for the Customs Administration, Tax Administration and all state-owned companies such as HZ, HAC and others. The implementation of these conclusions has encouraged the National Council over the past year through discussions, analyses, conclusions, proposals, initiatives at its regular and thematic sessions. Among the most important consequences of corruption is the loss of trust in state authorities and public institutions, resulting in a negative impact on the economic development of society. Therefore, not only corruption but also the very suspicion of corruption, and the impression of corruption question the credibility of each government from one in the smallest municipality to one at national level. This is precisely the suspicion of corruption, so if it is real and does not exist, it is resolved by laying down clear, transparent and predetermined rules of conduct and decision-making criteria, which is particularly advocated by the National Council. The strategic definition of the fight against corruption is evident in Croatia in the Strategy through five thematic areas. This is a legal and institutional framework, preventing corruption, prosecution and sanctioning corruption, international co-operation and public awareness of corruption. Analysing the above mentioned areas, the National Council, through 11 regular and 3 thematic sessions during the reporting period, pointed to shortcomings in the action plan, and with special satisfaction on behalf of the entire National Council, can say that our observations are largely embedded in the revised action plan, in the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the Government on 18 March 2010. The analysis of the implementation of the action plan found that around 80% of the planned measures were successfully implemented and that the key measures were fully implemented. In the revised action plan, the emphasis is on clearly prescribed decision-making procedures, and therefore responsibility. In this way, it seeks to strengthen the ethics, credibility, professionalism, or integrity of the body of the state government, which the National Council has repeatedly highlighted as one of the cornerstones of the fight against corruption. The Action Plan also points out that a solid legal framework has been established in Croatia, which together with the institutional framework, with further continued strengthening of the sea must produce clear and visible results in increasing the number of convictions for all levels from pocket and street to high and political corruption. Respecting the proposals of the National Council in the revised action plan in the chapter on the prevention of corruption, the areas of high corruption risk such as the prevention of conflicts of interest, the financing of political parties, the right to access information, codes of conduct of civil servants, public finances, public procurement, the judiciary, health, science, education and sport are also particularly highlighted. Compared to the previous revised action plan, there are slightly less measures. It used to be 195. Now 145 but more clearly certain carriers, measures, targets and deadlines with one flaw that I point out are missing clear indicators of the performance of the measures. It should be pointed out in particular that in this revised plan, as the holder of the said plan, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which was not the holder of anti-corruption measures in the old plan, was first pointed out by the National Council. I would also like to point out that the National Council's suggestion is that all state-owned companies must develop their own action plans for prevention and repression, as well as early detection of corruption. There is one major flaw in the revised action plan, which is that there are no measures to protect people who point to corruption and behaviour. Therefore, the protection of whistles, although in a strategy with priorities to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, the implementation of rules on the financing of political parties, the exercise of the right to access information, the strengthening of public administration integrity, the regulation of public procurement, are particularly prominent protection of damages and people who report corruption in good faith. It is this problem that the National Council added an additional contribution to the two thematic sessions dedicated to the relationship between freedom of the media and corruption, and to the protection of whistles. Regular meetings of the National Council analysed the reports of the holder of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which were represented by ministers and State Secretarys. In all reports, a qualitative and quantitative shift has been observed in relation to the previously observed period, and members of the National Council through discussions, proposals and initiatives have further affected the improvement of future activities whose results are yet to be seen in the next period. A unanimous conclusion is the majority of discussions on the reports under consideration, that at this point in Croatia there is a very high quality legal and institutional framework as a necessary prerequisite for success in the fight against corruption, but that only the application of all these measures in practice and the rapid completion of the investigations and judicial rulings launched in the initial proceedings against the perpetrators of corrupting crimes will show real success in fighting corruption. In particular, this applies to corrupt acts for which the accused high political officials, regardless of which parties they came from, and in whose investigations and judicial proceedings the police, the attorney's office and the judiciary must prove high expertise, independence and the ability to release any politicisation. Through the discussions and conclusions, the National Council has specifically insisted on providing sufficient resources for the implementation of the measures of the strategy relating to the provision of logistics and financial conditions for the effective operation of the police USKOK, as well as to strengthen the interagency cooperation of the police USKOK, the Tax and Customs Administration, and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Public procurement was on several occasions the subject of the National Council's debate over the potential corruption risk. Public procurement remains areas of high corruption risk, and many of the affairs discovered in state-owned companies are confirming that. Therefore, the National Council insists mainly when it comes to the involvement of high-ranking officials and politicians, regardless of party membership, on improving efficiency in the detection, processing and verdict of corruption offences, because only this can improve the corruption perception index and prove that there is no untouchable in the fight against corruption in Croatia. I point out a particularly commendable example in increasing transparency in the public procurement process of the Ministry of Health, which included a representative of the Croatian Transparency International in the public procurement commission. Powerful verdicts are the only cure for corruption. I repeat, no one can dispute Croatia anymore that it has a good legislative framework, that it has established a solid institutional and mutually better-coordinated anti-corruption jumping vertical from the police via the state's attorney's office to the jumping courts. At the same time, there are still not enough results in terms of increasing the judgments of power and confiscation of property acquired by corruption, as it will encourage citizens to evaluate the work of the stepping vertical, and to become more active in preventing and preventing corruption themselves, because the fight against corruption without the participation of citizens cannot be. However, it must be stated that the number of convictions is increasing year by year. Three thematic sessions were held during the reporting period, and the thematic sessions proved to be an important form of encouraging new measures in the fight against corruption. I point out that it was freedom of the media and the fight against corruption, an analysis of the protection of whistles in the European Union and Croatian experiences, and the measures taken in high education to combat corruption and their effects. In particular, I would like to emphasise the great role and importance of both the media and the education system. This is best seen from the results of the action of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and the Ministry of Justice, which was called the Anti-Corruption Clock, which includes students of secondary schools in Osijek, Split, Rijeka and Zagreb, which showed that 95% of students of most knowledge about the problem of corruption are based on media information. I repeat 95% of students most know about the problem of corruption based on media information. 56% say their knowledge of corruption is very little, i.e. it does not come from school. Accordingly, it is concluded that more attention should be paid to this problem in schools, especially when considering the positive attitude of students on the usefulness of education in terms of prevention and the great interest they have shown for further education on the subject. Of the other activities, the National Council has actively participated in a wide range of domestic and international conferences, where it has presented the experiences of our National Council's work, which have been very positively assessed and taken as an example of how national parliaments can control the implementation of the strategy and action plans to combat corruption. Members of the National Council also attended meetings with representatives of foreign delegations, embassies in Croatia, representatives of the European Commission and the World Bank, who visited the Croatian Parliament and introduced them to the work of the National Council. In addition, all members of the National Council received citizens who requested personal contact because of the suspicion of corruption they met, and all presentations of citizens about a hundred of them who arrived to the National Council were forwarded to the State Attorney's Office and other competent authorities for consideration and observation, so there are no drawers in which any items are locked. It's final. The National Council concludes unanimously in this report that progress has been made in the implementation of the strategy during 2010, first of all, compared with the results of the previous report. The European Union has seen the results of the Republic of Croatia in establishing institutional mechanisms for the co-operation, implementation and monitoring of efforts to combat corruption, including the improvement of the corruption committee headed by the Prime Minister, as well as the growing encouraging role of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, and that Croatia has harmonised all international legal instruments in this area. At the same time, in relation to the fight against corruption, Croatia has also received clear criteria that must be met by the closing of the chapter, that is, 7 areas that are said in the report, I would not particularly read them, because you can read them in the material that you have received. It can be concluded that in the legislative framework of constitutional changes, through the adoption of new and amendments and the addition of existing laws that regulate the issue of public procurement, concessions, conflicts of interest, financing of political parties, the right to access information, the Criminal Law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, judicial reform, assumptions were created for a more effective fight against corruption. At the very end, I am particularly emphasising the National Council is not an operational body, the National Council does not launch investigations, does not carry out investigations, does not pass judgments, cannot sanction already committed corrupt acts, but through the control of the implementation of the strategy it can propose to improve preventive measures in the fight against corruption, in particular in increasing transparency and integrity in public administration, commercial societies owned by the state, further improving the legislative framework on access to information and the protection of whistles, continuous analysis and improvement of action plans in commercial societies, continued education at all levels and strengthening the integrity of public administration, increasing transparency in the financing of political parties of election campaigns, improving the system of prevention and sanctioning of conflicts of interest at all levels of state and public administration, fostering all the regular activities of public administration, promoting the need to take the necessary measures in order to ensure that the need of the need to ensure that the need for the need to be taken into account in order to ensure that the necessary measures. In accordance with its powers, and the basis of the experience so far, the National Council will continue to continuously propose corrective measures of the strategy and of the anti-corruption plan, and will encourage regular public debates on all relevant corruption issues. The perception of citizens about corruption in Croatian society especially in politics, justice, all state bodies, healthcare, higher education and sports points to the seriousness and need of an even stronger fight against corruption, which is first seen in showing the strong political will of all authorities, from the least municipality to the national level, and immediately to the realization of strategies and action plans. Only visible results, which are the rightful judgments, and the confiscation of the wrongly acquired benefits of property and non-equity will lead to a reduction in the negative perception of the public. In recent months, there has been an increase and an investigation into a number of corruption affairs, which have shown a great lack of integrity, accountability and transparency of a number of civil servants, institutions, political parties or companies. Therefore, I would like to stress that, with the jump vertical, strengthening and general moral social verticals are necessary. In the fight against corruption transparency is the most effective prevention of corruption. Openness in business, the possibility that the public has full insight into the work of a public institution, public procurement or employment is a defence of any corruption, but with transparency it is essential and knowledge and responsibility. Under the conditions of recession, indifference, unemployment approaching the number of 350 thousand growth and corruption risks, it is necessary to show stronger political will and strengthen all activities of all stakeholders of the action plan strategy in order to prevent, detect early and quickly process any corrupt behaviour. By completing this report, I can say that the opening of Chapter 23 has shown that the path is a good path in an anti-corruption fight, but that the closure of Chapter 23 will require that all state bodies, all officials and politicians must show a much stronger determination to root out corruption regardless of party or any other belonging. The fight against corruption is an important prerequisite in the EU accession process, but it is even more important to achieve the preconditions for Croatian society's progress. Croatian citizens believe unemployment, economic stagnation, social uncertainty and corruption 4 are the key problems of Croatian society. The solution to corruption will certainly speed up the resolution of unemployment, economic stagnation and social uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68112	Thank you. Before we continue with this agenda, I'd like to inform you that at 11.30 today, we'll have an update on the agenda, so please let the clubs have that in mind so we can do it. So, at 11:30. In addition, although you will receive invitations on Thursday 17 February, so tomorrow, at 14 am I convened an extended session of the Croatian Parliament Presidency with the presidents of the club representatives in the hall "Ante Starčević" here at 149 and suggested the Agenda – debate on matters important for the work of the Croatian Parliament. So tomorrow at 2 p.m., and today at 11.30 a.m. on the agenda. Let's move on. Do government representatives want to further explain their views? No, I don't. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take the word, or the Committee on Internal Policy and the national security he has been discussing? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68113	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yeah, we just heard that 95% of the students of a school in Osijek actually come from a bunch of information about corruption coming from the media. It is certainly a rule that could be applied when it comes to this House. On the one hand, it's commendable for the part of the media, it's for concern about the Parliament, but it also says how much the Parliament is actually at the source of information in this country. Secondly, I would like to say that this report concerns, for example, this period until 30.06.2010. So it's about the period before the ex-Prime Minister's escape, I mean Mr. Sanader. And now, as it stands in this country, one prime minister is in Salzburg, and another prime minister, in time, also vice president of the HDZ, Mr Manolic, who brought Tudjman to the helm, is being held in Croatia. At the very least, to imagine, but a good fight should be fought against both war crimes and corruption. On page 6, on these points 1, 2, 3, it is literally said here that the National Council is insisting, quoting, mainly when it comes to the involvement of highly positioned officials and politicians in improving efficiency in the disclosure, processing and condemning of corruption offences, etc. So it's said that the only way to rule is to fight corruption. In 2009, 1118 people were reported to USKOK, of which 846 were involved in corrupt activities. 466 investigative requests have been filed, of which 270 for a corrupt work. There were 408 people accused, 178 of corruption. The courts have reached 491 verdicts, 190 for corruption, of which 164 condemning, 20 liberating and 6 refuting. In 2008, there were 206 convictions for corruption. You could just say that the number of convictions has been increased. So, once again, these 408 people have been charged with corruption. Anyone who, I say it often takes a single kuna to himself clearly to answer. However, we must also understand that in some other way someone should be treated if they make, say, a wrong one, either politically or economically, a decision. Simply these people who make decisions should in some way simply be protected because the consequences of these 334 thousand 366 unemployed at the end of the first month are also seen in the fact that Croatia is simply blocked in that sense of decision. And one of the reasons is precisely this number of unemployed, and it's already on today over 340 thousand lies in it. It's clear that corruption in this country does exist. What is extremely good, it is commendable that the DORH has started working on these data after 2009 or in 2009. That courts also make judgments. What is the biggest problem for this scale of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is simply a system. We're talking about bribery as a rule, we're talking about public procurement, and I'm saying that maybe the biggest problem when it comes to corruption is writing a law that pleases individuals, from those who are at the head of large transformed systems and beyond. Mr. Barisic may be just the tip of the ice. 30 million kuna clearly looks a lot, but it's actually nothing. Last time I said so, I don't know, Sanader got a BMW to deal with the fate of an unfortunate young man who ran over two girls, but to loosen up the border regimes for sure. Corruptions understandably have, among other things, as I said, because this House, the Parliament, is marginalized, because it doesn't decide almost anything, and then it runs the government through public systems, so I dare say parts of the state media, which is more clearly and there is more corruption there, so in this context I would very much like to know, when every day parts of Barisic's testimony are being checked out in public, who are those journalists who were on the payroll of him, Sanader or their party. I couldn't imagine, a few days ago, that the government would be so concerned that it would show "for small salaries" of INA board members, and all these salaries, however small, are bigger than the president of the state, the President of the Parliament, or the Prime Minister, so there's really no such thing as anywhere. DA's taking care of INA managers who all went to management, I'd say, based on one political protection. Now, is that corruption, is corruption like I said when you write certain laws about a system that allows someone to have a monopoly position on the market, which is the most difficult form of corruption in my court. I'm looking at, say, one absurd thing when IKEA's re-purposed land is okay, and when in one such case it happened in Istria, then individuals are tried. And now a man asks the question of how to level the criteria, how what's wrong with each other is good or vice versa. Why wouldn't what's good with one of them be good with the other? How to make this judicial system, and that may be a fundamental question, for everyone in this country is as they say, that they are all equal. If 408 persons were convicted in Croatia in 2009, I also said it was not for the game, that I am now not quoting exactly or rather repeating this data on page 6 or 7 of this Report. One more time I'm gonna say a man can make a mistake, a man can't take it. If he makes a mistake, it can be understood, if he takes it, then he needs to be convicted. You can't judge someone for Peku on one side, and because of some of the wrong "judgmental decisions" you just go through with it. The truth is the same when a man opens a newspaper, you're simply disgusted, today I listen to driving towards Zagreb, 100 thousand kuna, I guess that's the title of the Morning for the Daughter's Boy, I won't mention anything, Sanader 20 million kuna yesterday, HEP 600 million kuna, Đakovština 55 million kuna, Croatia insurance several days ago big headlines in Novi list 100 million kuna, 3. May 5 million kuna, Faculty of Economics 35 million kuna, and now I'm not counting any further. There is another question, of course, that there should be a fight there, whether in one such way it is done today in Croatia and to release the information in public. If a man gets blacked out once, no matter what the next day may not be found guilty, you can hardly rehabilitate him afterwards. Once an individual in the media shows up as a thief, he's simply a thief forever, and against that, I think we should sort of be in one serious country. I'm against these arrest spectacles, that I suppose either the police or the DORH report to the media that at 5 o'clock and 5 o'clock in the morning before that and that house it happens and that, clearly, then you should let the neighbors know that they too believe, and even if the media fail again the whole city will talk about it. I'm opposed to putting handcuffs on suspects, where they're going to run away, one thing with heroin smuggling, murderers, and the other I don't know with someone else when it comes to other things. Understandably, this battle against corruption in this country needs to be intensified and man asks himself a question of how much money in Croatia has been embezzled in the last 7 or 20 years, anyway. I guess if only the central government's budgets in the last seven years amounted to 800 billion kuna, the extra budget funds around 150 billion kuna have been available in the last 7 years with 350 million kuna. If we just single out capital investments and if only 2% of the money is blacked out, it's 1 billion euros. How to get to that 1 billion euros today, imagine what with 1 billion euros could be done in this country that today has as many as 334 thousand unemployed. Actually, there's over 340 today. So nearly 50,000 jobs could be opened and we can freely say that corruption has eaten at least 50,000 jobs in the last seven years. Whether it's the one going on at local or national level. With 50,000 more jobs, Croatia would go through a deep crisis but it would be incomparably easier for everyone than it is today. How much of these or 1 billion euros has money in Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein Banks. How will these in Austria, Switzerland, or rather when they will start working with the Croatian judicial system? How can Croatia fight corruption if, for example, bankers in these countries simply, or their judicial bodies are higher and the survival of this banking system does not want to co-operate with Croatia. How many early '90s through similar ways are embezzled for weapons, which is about conversion. There's always talk of depoliticalization of institutions in this country, and I think they're only subject to corruption here on page 10, etc. They first sell 3, 4 years to be independent, but when they are offered a place at the top of a party that can decide on opportunities in the country, then they are clearly activated overnight. And now we're talking about independence. That's how it's done so far, so it's gonna be in the future. Looking at this table, page 11, 12, the Council has turned its attention to itself and now we'll see what happens after this. I would even dare say that when it comes to corruption in the ruling party, there was a dominant involvement of the first echelon, in opposition the second echelon precisely because people of the opposition were constantly being supervised, so that it might not be similar, not to say the same. Barisic obviously, I'll say it one more time, he's not lying, he just needs to come by the former prime minister to talk and let's just hear what's been going on. Clearly, whoever was in power was also the generator of corruption in those last seven, eight years, and it's hard to argue. Public procurement 10%, I think it's a little excessive. It cannot be that there was this corruption, but it is, Croatia is networked with corruption and for 10 years it will take us to simply fight that in this country again it can be said that corruption is reduced to some normal frameworks although there is certainly less corruption today than by 2009 after the institutions said the former president would start working. Unfortunately, the corrupt octopus has beaten us, saved us by the Croatian National Bank, maybe saved us from being robbed by foreign banks, too, but the struggle began unfortunately at the moments when Croatia fell to the bottom.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68115	And if that struggle had been permanent, if the system hadn't affected some law...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68117	If they had spoken in time, both in the Parliament and in the media and in the party in power, it might have been a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68118	Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club... Oh, yeah, we've got one correction right. ... Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68119	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain incorrectly said that a trial was being held for a prime minister who brought Tudjman to his lead. That's incorrect. Dr. Tudjman was elected to the elections and led by the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia, and Dr. Tudjman had a vision so at some point to achieve the historical wish of Croatian people and other citizens, to create an independent and independent state of Croatia. But it's nice of you dear colleagues to hear you advocate criteria and justice and equality, and last week you said in this House you'd introduce control on Ucka and all those who think otherwise won't be able to enter Istria. I'm just curious about what the criteria would be, is it singing fighting songs, who doesn't know how to go back to the tunnel in the middle of the dark or pay a tax called the Caine. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68120	Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68121	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010 in the text as presented to the representatives and as read by the President here, with the fact that we have to say that we are building on the acceptance of the opening part of Mr. President's presentation where he mentioned the implementation of certain research that the Council has not discussed in this report, on the state of 2004 and the state of 2009. We also heard now that the President of the IDS Club has actually increased its assessment in 2009 in the perception of the fight against corruption. The only exact report that we can all read is the Transparency International report that has been conducting these studies since 1999, from which it is actually clear that this chart, that the best rating has reached Croatia in 2008, has been recorded a slight drop in 2009, but that this is far, far better than the time before the adoption of a systematic anti-corruption programme in 2006. Of course, it's not good and we can't be perfectly happy with them, since it's only 5 passing grades, but here's the real state and the exact indicator and research into the perception of corruption by Transparency International. Of course, the perception of corruption itself is not identical with the real phenomenon of this corruption, as well as some research conducted directly with persons who used any medical services, whether the services of the judiciary, or who participated as a party in the work of the judiciary, that they gave a completely different assessment from their own experiences. But this perception is logical since we also see from this report that high school students and young people 94% of the knowledge of corruption is obtained from the media because we have heard all about the headlines, millions spinning through the media then it is clear that such a picture is obtained by citizens and young people and that it is then such an impression of corruption. But to return to this report that we will support for the reason that the National Council justified the reason for its establishment. The National Council was founded according to the decision of the Croatian Parliament in 2006 for the first time and would disagree that Parliament was marginalised as we just heard. This is exactly what the government, namely the previous HDZ, has sent to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which provides for the establishment of this parliamentary body to be systematically informed and that it could systematically oversee the executive power in implementing the measures and tasks set out in the National Programme. Therefore, this Council has fully fulfilled its role in part of the surveillance and monitoring of the implementation of the National Strategy, monitoring of corruption, analysis and reports by the competent authorities, proposing measures to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the National Strategy, in encouraging cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and other bodies with tasks in the action plan. And also to consider the proposal for complaints and views and opinions of citizens, and I would say here that we see from this report that the question might actually be the purpose of this task, the Council's tasks. This part of the task may only be used to track the occurrence of cases. However, since the National Council is not a body of detection or persecution. Most of it comes down to the presentations being submitted to the State's Attorney's Office. However, the question is whether it is parallelism, because both the State's Attorney's Office and the Police Department have places that are open to citizens to report all types of corrupt acts, i.e. suspicions of corrupt acts. This is if we read from this report, so it was held during this period of 11 regular and 3 thematic sessions, indicating that the Council was active, that on average it was at least at least one month. And through all these sessions systematically supervised the completion of the tasks of individual bodies of the executive authority. What we also see from the report that all these reports on the implementation of the measures have been adopted. So that all state bodies had fulfilled what they had been given according to the task programme. We are also pleased to read from this report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as other executives, listen to what the National Council says, listen to good suggestions, listen to certain suggestions. So here, after the February 2010 report, we can conclude that all the suggestions of the National Council have been accepted and have been incorporated into the new action plan. Here, in particular, we are apostrophe once again that the National Council's proposal on the action plan includes all ministries as carriers of the implementation of the anti-corruption programme, because we have estimated that corruption risks are in all bodies, i.e. that in the previous action plan not all ministries realized that although the explicits do not write the name of their ministry that they still have to implement general measures relating to the state administration and strengthening the integrity of all public affairs. It also accepted the Council's suggestion that state-owned companies develop their own anti-corruption programmes. And this is particularly important for those companies that deal with large amounts of public money and carry out large-scale public procurement. In this respect, the strategy and action plan also adopted a suggestion for amending the Law on the right to access information as already implemented. In this regard, it should be noted that we are talking about the period by the end of June 2010. After that, this Croatian Parliament also adopted a series of laws and amendments to the laws that were both in the Anti-Corruption Strategy and to the criteria needed to meet the criteria in Chapter 23. What we are also reading from the report that, in regular sessions, the ministry's systematic supervision, the state authorities have also submitted reports on the fulfilment of their measures. It also regularly submitted a report by the State's Attorney's Office and the BIAK, as well as the Police Directorate with the Police Department, through which it was actually given an insight at a closed session into how these bodies work in the part of the processing and detection of corrupt criminal offences which were either alerted to reports or have come to their own knowledge of the possible existence of a criminal offence. As for thematic sessions, three were held during this period. What we read from the report was said and said the president mentioned that the new action plan was not sufficiently respected in the Council's suggestion regarding the protection of whistles. However, I must say that here is the report that says that at this thematic session, therefore the importance of whistle protection has been pointed out, the experiences of European countries have been considered. The conclusion is that Croatia has a legislative framework for the protection of whistles that does not differ significantly from other European countries. But what we have seen is a certain negative individual experience of people who have reported corruption, suspicion of corruption, and it is therefore the conclusion of this thematic session that raising awareness of the importance of the fight against corruption must be a priority, and it is up to us to analyse individual cases and to see if, in relation to the protection of whistles, the legal provisions that we have and which are somewhere at the level of European countries' standards are insufficiently applied. In general, what we see is that the thematic sessions have been held, that they have largely raised the public's attention, that there have been major political assessments in these discussions. But what we note is that the results of these thematic sessions, in fact, that there are no results, i.e. the national council will have to make sure that, after teaching these sessions, that there is not enough public attention and a little halabuka, a little political evaluations, etc., that after these sessions, it is necessary to question whether the state bodies have done what they were supposed to do, so I am saying this in relation to the the thematic session of freedom of the media and the fight against corruption, when we have concluded that only two media houses in Croatia have the statutes and that it is necessary to carry out supervision there, so to warn the competent ministry responsible for overseeing the implementation of the law, whether it has done so and what has been done today on this issue. Likewise, the measures taken in high education to combat corruption were on the trail of media-observed processes, but I think that nothing further, except that we have naturally condemned such a media pump in the fight against corruption, that it is not a purpose but a systematic prevention of the possibility of corruption, mainly important at the university because it is the most sensitive part and one message to young people if they can buy a test of what they can do with money and purchase. Finally, I have to say this on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, because this was also heard in public, that the club called on the president of this national council to resign, because the club felt that given the flat-rate assessment and the discrediting of a whole political option, it was suspected that someone who could objectively lead a council, which should systematically and objectively monitor the implementation of anti-corruption measures, regardless of who the political option refers to. But what this Parliament has done well, which is that in 2009 it changed the decision in a way that introduced the Vice-President's institution from the ruling majority, making a certain balance, and I have to say that by changing the rules of procedure of that council, and here we now have less and less political moves, we have more and more objective supervision. And if you'll excuse me, I have to say, because there's been a lot of talk about the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, about what kind of majority should be chosen. Here is a positive example of this council is that there are more opposition MPs than MPs, but more importantly than 6 outside members, so a fully respected agreement of the position, the ruling majority and opposition to this, the Board of Elections has equally respected the proposal of the majority and the opposition's proposals in this case, and thus 6 external members have been elected by consensus and elected, and this is a good example of how an agreement can be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68122	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68123	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very important report, which is not only a technical document, in which we would only count how many sessions were held by the National Committee, which was discussed, which were specific topics in the focus of the thematic sessions, but is actually one space for discussion on the role of the national parliament in countering corruption, and in creating not only the legal framework, but also the overall atmosphere for preventing one of the most devastating phenomena, I would say in transition societies in general. There is no country in Europe that we consider a transition, which in one way or another has not faced the more or less dramatic effects of this devastating process, which has actually arisen at a crossroads or I would say in a transitional period of destruction of one and the construction of a new political, economic system, and even a valuable system. Many countries in Eastern Europe had to face the fact that corrupt behaviour, but also the development of a corrupt environment, was still a way of functioning of many institutions, and that precisely because of bureaucratism on the one hand, partocracy on the other hand, and the lack of real, solid democratic institutions created a space in which, above all, the activity of politics and politicians where public resources, public resources are available and where public services have created a huge space of abuse through which a vast part of national wealth has been leaked. But worse than that, even worse than the material damage of corruption destroys only a human being. It kills the will of those who know and can compete and achieve even better, because corruption actually prevents those who are better at succeeding, and prefers those who are mostly politically similar or who are able to finance their position on the market. Which has nothing to do with their qualities and their abilities. It is corruption that kills the core of the modern market economy, corruption that prevents development, which brings additional imbalances to regional development, corruption is ultimately the one that destroys the image, reputation and importance of politics as an honorable activity. It is she who, in our Republic of Croatia, has mostly contributed to people's contempt for politics, while politicians find it unfair. The role of Parliament, as well as the Croatian Parliament is not just technical, it is not just supervised, it is extremely important in every respect, because it allows it to be here, where laws are passed and where the most important topics for the future of the people and the state are discussed, warned of the size and importance of this problem and also warned about the possibilities of its suppression. If, therefore, we, as MPs elected in the elections, are not able to understand how devastating corruption is and if we are unable to lead, and also through the National Committee to monitor, initiate and comment on trends in the fight against corruption, we can hardly expect from the entire system of people working in the state administration to understand how important it is to stick to principles, stick to the law and stick to the responsibilities of what they are entrusted with and to rule it. Corruption always and only occurs in the space of policy interaction, economy, politics and citizens in the area where public money, public resources are available and public services are provided. Today, the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia is a very important political issue, and it also tries to earn political points. But it's not just and it's not just a test of the current government's credibility. It is and will be a place where political views, strategies and tactics of all political parties in the Republic of Croatia must be corrected. The moment when persecution is exposed to the most positioned man in the state, therefore the Prime Minister, a very important message has been sent to all that no one, indeed, is protected and that anyone can and should reach the hand of justice if in any way he has wronged himself about the laws or has misused his public duty by allowing himself or his own regardless of the benefit of relatives or like-minded persons. That's what I would have said in the historical moment because the signal must have gone down the backs of many, not only in the state administration but also in the local administration when we talk about politicians, because it should not forget that corruption is not and cannot be just an exclusive problem at the state level and where there is state, or public money at the level of the state budget and paraprocular funds, public companies, but it also happens at the level of local and regional self-government. And it is also very important to understand how important it is to fight favoration, to spread the space of abuse and to combat wealth at the expense of society. The role of Parliament is therefore multiple. We believe in the HNS-HSU club that the body established by the Croatian Parliament has so far performed its duty in a good way and that the action of President Jovanovic was in this sense even a step forward because it is loud and sometimes attractive to what it is about and how the problem has been pointed out. And in this regard, we do not accept the HDZ club's shift initiative, or the resignation of the president of the National Council. It is good, therefore, when we talk about the period discussed and this report, that there have been cases of corruption, that they are being persecuted and that they have become public, that public talk is being made, and that any debate on this subject can also be seen as a preventive matter and as a preventive action, as a psychological action on all those whose hands are close to public money. But it's not good that we found out how widespread corruption is and where it's all there is. Many of us didn't even believe it was so widespread. And they say that what we know is probably just the tip of the ice santa and that the years ahead of us will be the years in which we will actually have to deal with much greater amounts than the ones we heard in public and that, for example, bonding with the FIMI MEDIA case. The information I have from around the State's Attorney's Office says that FIMI MEDIA has not only recalibrated state-owned enterprises but also that private companies operating with the state were blackmailing and were suggested to direct some of their income to FIMI MEDIA. The question is whether FIMI MEDIA was even more and whether it was just one isolated case in which it was seen how this octopus works and what are the flows of money and the flow of money from public funds and space into private interests or corporate interests regardless of political parties or interest groups. It is extremely important to understand that in the system of corruption when we talk about it, when we speak and express criticism, we must understand that corruption does not only work on the collapsing of almost money but also on providing services and political synergy. We must accept that it would be easier for us to oppose that the space of politics and public administration in Croatia is also a place where political corruption still reigns. Unfortunately, the laws on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors have reached the end of political corruption when it comes to running and buying mandates in local and regional self-government representative bodies. There is almost no moon or quarter in the last 2 years that we are not getting this information from different municipalities and cities where even today flats, sinicaurs, jobs, cash or other benefits are traded on the other side of town halls, municipalities and counties. I hope and believe that the day will come when such a procedure will be extremely immoral and that voters will punish it directly as has been shown so far whoever was the actor of political corruption, whoever bought other people's mandates and other people's favors beyond the election results in the next elections was punished. The HNS HSU Club supports this Report, thanks to all members, especially those who are not representatives, but the external members of the effort they have made and in this sense we support them in their efforts to strengthen the role they play as a parliamentary body and to help more and louder the public to those involved in the fight against corruption at professional level regardless of the police, state attorney's office, BIAK and the disciplinary bodies of public institutions and public services that are in constant daily contact with citizens. Citizens should also be encouraged from this place, that whenever they can, wherever they are, wherever they know and as soon as they learn about cases of corruption and illegal guessing, they respond, inform and help to find and suppress these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68124	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68125	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'm glad you're here to conduct a session of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, said that he dreamed of a day when we would finally be aware of corruption and when the elections will show how the people are punishing or rewarding those who are less, let's say so colloquyally, sin over what is today in this report and for months, for days, we have been condemning for weeks in this Croatian Parliament, which is bribery, corruption, nepotism, clientism, conflict of interest, whatever it is called together, and all of what the National Council observes for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, or the Commission for conflict of interest, therefore, all this is expensive that one day our voters or voters in the elections will either be honored, or will punish those who are deeply involved in it. But Mr. Beus Richembergh you forgot the second fact, and you mentioned it in part, which is that after the election, election results change by post-election engineering by corruption, in terms of buying exactly what you told the councilman not to say the attempts of MPs etc. So that's what voters can punish, but after that, given the wealth of individual parties and the millions that are being talked about and written, and even foreign newspapers mention $500 million, so it's not a problem to change the election result to their own benefit after the election. That's why the citizens of this country have such a bad view of politicians and are equating them and putting them in the same basket. "They're all equal," you'll hear everywhere from the market to the square, the street, etc. It's just that over the past 20 years, he's been ugly to the end, and he's naked with the notion of politicians as someone who's close to throwing honey, and he'd be forgiven for maybe licking his fingers, so he put his hand up to his shoulder in honey. And on the other hand, almost 100,000 workers don't get paid, 327 thousand are at the Employment Office. Retireds largely at the social minimum, peasants dissatisfied, due to failure to meet their commitments by the ministry and state. About students and others, therefore, there is one dissatisfaction in the whole society, precisely because the daily issue of cards is drawn through the media most often, unfortunately, the Croatian Parliament only later learns about it and discusses or does not discuss it. So, he pulls out As wherever you draw any card and if it's upside down, so the whole deck, wherever you pull an ace, there's something to hear. So when it's pulled out like that, then we say, about the affairs that rock Croatia. From the "Maestro", "Brodoplit", action "Diagnoza", action "index", Croatian railways, Croatian highways, Podravka, Croatian post office bank "Bankomat", Croatian electricity industry, affairs, two "Kamioni" and military and fire departments, so that no one remains spared, the affair "ofside", the Fimi media as a jewel in all this, I would not have talked about the Fimi media enough said my predecessors. And a number of other aces that get out almost daily and in the press, in the media, another Hypo bank, even though there are indications for 10 years, comes the order, and then Đakovština, where 30 thousand tons of wheat is missing. Croatian mail is also mentioned for certain abuses, etc. So, the National Council that is following all of this and has given the Report for a year, so from June 2009 to June 2010. However, these affairs have occurred before, they have lasted, they have their own course, and here is the presentation of this report, this year, the period from June 2009 to 2010. Almost, I'd say the National Council has work to do, tasks to do, tasks to almost continue the daily stakeout and follow up on everything that's going on. But corruption affairs, as much as in the first wave of citizens, welcome the discovery of these affairs in the media, as much as in the first wave seemed congenital after a certain time, after a certain euphoria in that sense there was a silence and I would say indifference. What should become a practice in Croatia is monitoring and monitoring the affairs until the end. This includes a trial that has also been followed somewhat in the media, but needs to be seen what the ultimate result is. Will the money be returned to those who have been robbed by corruption? Because it's a public good, public good belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those who are just because of these affairs to say because of theft, thieving, gangsterism lost their jobs, jobs, no college enrolment, no Christmas cards, no pensions, etc. We have examples abroad and in EU countries how this is handled. And one example is Italy. I'm not gonna talk right now because I don't have enough time. That's why all these ugly traits that our suspects exhibit and there are many of them, and these are affairs with myth, corruption, nepotism, clientelism, which are also involved in corruption, and then action in conflict of interest, would best be called the Croatian word that would be almost clear to everyone, which is corruption, because someone buys a corruption or kamak or cream. Is corruption a public and secret donation to political parties? Is corruption transporting millions and 200 thousand cubic metres of stone without any kuna compensation? Are corruption digging gravel from the Sava River and Drava without compensation? Is corruption not paying taxes and contributions? - No pay? - No. Is corruption buying council terms? Is corruption buying a million and a half doses of vaccine, and only 20, 30 thousand doses are used? So, I'm talking about so-called. Pig flu. And what about the other doses and what about the money the state gave or lost because of it? What's the damage? Is the damage part of the corruption? Ignorance doesn't justify lawyers. Is corruption an illegal favor that has spread to us in Croatia? All together someone wrote that it was actually about real gangster brains and gangsters who brought this country to the bottom, but at the bottom, on the edge or already in the fall in debt slavery, and then very seriously considered the possibility of selling and family not silver, but gold such as Croatian Waters and Croatian Forests. And if these gangsters were to recover and the state had mechanisms or as they say tools or instruments to recover, perhaps only part of what was robbed, whether to recover money that lies higher in banks and abroad, on various islands, and even closer to Austria, whether from the sale of gangster property then we would certainly not have come to the situation that we must sell Croatian waters and Croatian forests. Just a report from the National Council that it wouldn't leave someone out not only to apostrophe, the president of the National Council is unacceptable, I think they're doing their job, but I want him to have more and more tenacity and happiness, and to say and to the public that the citizens of this country will know to what extent corruption has gone down in this country which has become a real way of life. I've heard a lot of opinions being said, so by selling his mandate he's solved the life issue as something that's positive, interesting thinking. We have this in the case of Brod-Posavina County. The man sold his appointment for the inn and some more change. As long as it is, it will be determined later, and settled its life issue. So corruption has become a common pattern of life in this country. That's what's been imposed on the whole almost people, that's a terrible fact. Let's imagine that and the fact that we want to combat this evil that destroys the state at all. So if we all want as much together as I want well for our Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68126	Thank you. Here at 11.00 is the time for 10 minutes for the hearing. Let's move forward on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68127	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. By ratifying the UN Convention against Corruption, the Republic of Croatia has decided to step up measures to combat corruption more effectively, and this has also led to the adoption of a Anti-Corruption Strategy, which highlights the improvement of the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic repression of corruption, as well as the affirmation of zero tolerance access to corruption and the creation of preconditions to prevent corruption at all levels. Croatia is estimated to lose 6 billion kuna annually because of corruption, and this is why evil citizens lose confidence in public institutions. It is clear, therefore, that corruption needs to be systematically and consistently contained at all levels, which is also the firm commitment of this Government. The report we are discussing today covers the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010 in which 11 regular and 3 thematic sessions were held. It shows that the National Council has sought to strengthen the integrity, accountability and transparency in the work of the national authorities and to strengthen citizens' confidence in public institutions and to improve the legal and institutional framework for the effective fight against corruption. It also sought to improve the conditions for preventing corruption at all levels of government, to encourage cooperation between the national authorities responsible for the implementation of the strategy and to strengthen awareness of the harmfulness of corruption and the need to combat it. Thus, the comments made by the National Council on the action plan were largely incorporated into the revised action plan adopted in March 2010. The analysis of the implementation of the action plan has shown that around 80% of the planned measures have been implemented successfully and that the key measures have been fully implemented. Among other things, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the OIB was passed, and the jump was vertical. The National Council warned that strengthening the integrity of state authorities is related to clearly prescribed obligations, mandatory decision-making procedures, which are highlighted in the revised action plan, and that a solid legal framework, which must be achieved together with the institutional framework, must achieve concrete results through increasing judgments for all levels, from the lowest to the highest. Compared to the previous revised action plan, there is a slightly smaller measure but as the report states, certain carriers, objectives, deadlines and measures are clearer, and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which had not been before, is listed as the holder. A proposal from the National Council has also been accepted that all state-owned companies must develop their own action plans to prevent, combat and detect corruption early. At its regular sessions, the National Council analysed the reports of the holder of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy and could be said to have achieved a qualitative and quantitative shift compared to the previous one. The conclusion of most discussions on the reports under consideration is that at this point in Croatia there is a very high quality legal and institutional framework that is a necessary prerequisite for a successful fight against corruption. The attention is also paid to public procurement due to the potential corruption risk associated with them, which confirms a number of affairs which have been discovered in the business of state-owned companies. The fact is that Croatia has done much to establish a good legislative framework, a jumping vertical that we believe will also encourage citizens to engage more actively in preventing and preventing corruption. Three thematic sessions were held on the freedom of the media, the protection of whistles and measures to combat high education corruption, and many experts contributed to proposals on how to improve the measures taken in these areas. Unfortunately, it has been shown that only two media outlets have the statute of directorship in accordance with the media law. On the other hand, the fact is that the right to access information is of great importance to curb corruption. Without whistles, it is difficult for some of the corrupt procedures to be exposed, but despite the fact that there is a legislative framework in Croatia that guarantees them the protection of the negative experience of certain cases, they have shown that these people can be left without job protection and are in fear of their own safety and such situations need to be prevented. According to the report, the National Council considers that progress has been made in 2010 in the first two strategies, and results have been achieved in establishing mechanisms for co-operation, implementation and monitoring of corruption control activities, including the improvement of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, led by the prime minister, the European Union has recognised. The establishment of an institutional and legislative framework from constitutional changes, through changes and additions, and the adoption of new laws enables a more effective fight against corruption, and the application of legal solutions on the confiscation of property benefits acquired by criminal acts of corruption and organised crime is a very effective measure, primarily to deter corruption. Through monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, the National Council contributes to the improvement of activities carried out with a view to showing through work so far. Finally, it should be reminded once again that corruption has repeatedly damaged Croatian society because it is holding back its further development, impoverishing it and weakens citizens' confidence in the institutions of state government. It should also be pointed out that decisive measures are being taken to end this evil. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68128	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68129	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010 is also an incentive to remember at all how the body, how the National Council, this institution has been from the body a few years ago that no one lives and neither you here knew its scope nor where it is hidden or what its function is. In short, everyone testified only about his absence. However, it has been the body since our colleague Zeljko Jovanovic came to his head, becoming a respectable body, becoming the body that has gained confidence, being the most important not only of its reputation in the world, its reputation in Europe, but has gained trust which is most important for us, citizens' trust. Why do citizens trust this institution? Why do they trust her more than many institutions that, by our Constitution and our law, are just invited to react first to this phenomenon, to corruption, which we will all agree to be destructive and if the law laws corrupt future actions, then she is more than destructive. This body still today, perhaps the public is less known to work in a room than a few square meters. He works where he has expert associates, two young and sacrificed persons, except of course members of the Council. In the absence of adequate conditions and still unequipped and staffed in the way it should be and thanks, not to the basis of the acts we adopted ourselves, i.e. Not only the anti-corruption strategies, but also the anti-corruption action plan. However, that road was neither fast nor easy, nor simple. There were many obstructions that made them aware of what they were not aware of. Because already accustomed to various committees, different bodies were heard by voices, and within the National Council itself, that it was not the role and task of the National Council to speak and question certain concrete things, but rather simply to talk about how harmful corruption is, to write and deliver oral essays, and to compete in lyrical compositions who would better write and speak about the harmfulness of corruption. Well, you see, that's changed. This has also changed with a recent decision precisely in the tasks of the National Council itself. But it was also the primary task based on the strategy itself. And why is it that always the European Commission and the European Union are watching us, in general, not on the basis of the acts we have brought, but on how much these acts are implemented. So, works, not just words. And that just gives hope and faith that this body will continue, so not only will it monitor the work of individual ministries, but it will see all the irregularities that are often and not found in their reports, but they are, for example, in the review report and in some other acts. But what's most important is the voice of the citizens. I'm data that the National Council for Combating Corruption now has an active 201 case. Many of them have a code of secrecy, and I speak in which and what conditions are placed which is absolutely unacceptable. However, this once again testifies to how neither the funds themselves nor the working conditions themselves are determined that a single body would gain trust and affirmation in citizens and thus obtain good results. So this is exactly how work guarantees that we will no longer comply with that system where we all understand the papers, where all possible strategies and action plans are in order, and corruption is booming. So, in order not to happen that famous folk, surgery managed the patient died. There have also already been speeches here, which are for people in the council, the National Council for Combating Corruption, and also for seeking the citizens themselves who recognize, so the laws that are deficiting, which ultimately do not narrow down the area of corruption but even spread them. These are unfair laws that we at the SDP club often spoke and warned about. And recently exactly the basic Anti-Corruption Act and the Office for Prevention, the conflict of interest, the prevention of conflict of interest, we found a whole series of elements where corrupt behavior is being incorporated. And that's something that's inadmissible. Whether our country will continue to be trapped in the chains of corruption or we will really agree that this chain is finally broken and Croatia becomes free from corruption, i.e. if it is already indestructible, it will fall to a minimum. The most important tasks that the National Council has provided itself among those already well-known to you in terms of supervision, analysis, prevention is precisely that data on the occurrences of corruption which, at the request of the Council, are being systematically monitored by the authorities in charge of the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. But also more importantly, the National Council is obliged to consider proposals, complaints, views and opinions of citizens and legal persons. However, it is not just one shoulder to cry and one comfort to the citizens. But the National Council is really following what's going on with these items, which is what certain bodies that are in charge of processing such applications really have done in this regard. It's the best way to control, but it's the same as those bodies. We're witnessing that often these bodies, that repressive apparatus, but also the state as a whole, acts like an old push-up drawer. If there's something out there, then he doesn't care much about it. There were comments and something that should be corrected and what had been found by the National Council as a weak link and what this report, therefore should not only be considered, take note, or accept, but rather a warning to the competent authorities what they must do to ensure that the fight against corruption is effective. We all agreed that inter-resorship cooperation should be strengthened specifically by the Public Procurement Office, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the State Audit, the DORH, the Tax and Customs Administration and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. When these bodies individually sent their reports, it was noticeable, there was a significant lack that there was still no good interdepartmental cooperation and, unfortunately, no means were provided, and even those technical ones that allowed the necessary information to pass. To point out once again what is in our report and what we should be proud of precisely the work of the National Council, that the European Union has seen the growing proactive incentive role that the National Council therefore has to play for the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy and the European Union is encouraging the continuation of such a proactive approach in monitoring and implementing the strategy and, of course, with the application of the action plan itself. At the Council itself, apart from the thematic sessions, it was constantly at the heart of our activities, i.e. the Council’s activities, how to improve the legislative framework as much as possible. Thus, the conclusions and recommendations on the basis of such discussions have also come up with conclusions and recommendations that individual ministries, which should be improved in a particular portfolio through legislative initiatives. Although we all agreed that in principle I am this framework against corruption, normative is a quality, this does not mean that there are still no shortcomings in certain laws, there are no shortcomings that need to be corrected. Here's an example of amending the Penal Code, we now expect, so much, the government has already announced several times amendments to the new Penal Code and there have been speeches about supplementing the Penal Code, to change in this sense in order for economic incrimination to be updated, because economic incrimination, as it now contains, is still insufficient and cannot be adequate framework or legislative in order to fight corruption. We now have different behaviours that are all sanctioned through the abuse of behaviour, while they should be so formulated in terms of and European legislation, that they are treated as a misuse of trust, the abuse of the trust of all those who, above all, work in the name of public interest, and even in the name of private interest, have already come to this area far from the countries of the European Union. In the revised action plan, there are no measures to protect persons who point to corruption and behaviour. So if a citizen, we recognize that, it is also one of the conclusions and measures of the National Council's recommendation to advance the protection of all those who report in good faith the crimes of corruption. Recent amendments to the law have been to the harm of whistlesmen, for now this legal provision is somehow all those who in good faith report crimes against corruption even sanctioned. You may think that the whistler is now being cast out not only for persecution, criminal persecution, but also for the case of a civil servant and a substitute, if the person he suspected to be so, that he acts corruptly, if she is not convicted, he loses his job. You can imagine that a state's attorney or anyone who can't prove their claim to be losing his job. So an accent should be placed on good faith, of course there are people who always and the best institute abuse and should be punished, because then they throw a stain and shadow at the relativization of this whole problem. So I especially note, speaking on behalf of the club, that it is necessary to protect people who in good faith report criminal acts of corruption. Today these people still don't trust each other. Why? From my own experience. People who pointed to corrupt behavior, in different companies or in certain restaurants, were thrown out with unprecedented persecution, were left out of work, families were ruined in the nearest environment, nearer or even wider experience of shoulder landings. So such individuals became ropes and wider society as persons who are at all suspicious of behavior, composing behavior, and thus disqualified themselves in the least likely case that they have difficulty with their mental stability. As long as such, as long as people do not have such protection, as long as they are not our heroes, but persons who are being cast out for persecution or ridicule, true struggles and truly true wills that citizens want to feel from people who are entrusted with general good, public interest or something rope and more specific to physics themselves, they will have no confidence. If we look at the state audit and the results for 2009, then we see that right in, there are the biggest problems. That, therefore, a large number of those cases that have been assigned, i.e. in public procurement procedures, are not respected laws. In the past year, as much as 43%, while something has fallen the percentage of those contracts to 23%. So, here is the conclusion of this exhibition, on behalf of the SDP club, the SDP club asks to be followed exactly by those recommendations found by the national ones, which it concluded and recommended to individual ministries, the National Council for Combating Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68130	Thank you. We have a correction of incorrect allegations. She's the first female representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mrs. Anticevic said that this was an opportunity to remind ourselves back a few years ago, that there was a body, some body that had never been hidden, that no one here in the House ever knew. It's one of the false allegations. So, just as the HDZ came to power and these parliamentary majority, the Croatian Parliament adopted a programme of measures to combat corruption, which set up a national, parliamentary National Council for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. This was the Council's report to this Croatian Parliament, we accepted those reports, so we knew very well about the work of the Council. And the system is good if it works as a system, so as much as a colleague thinks about Mr. Jovanovic's genius, something can't be good or not good because one man has come to the head, so the system has to work no matter who's in charge of that body. And of course, in 2009, here in the House, we changed that decision based on experiences from the previous two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68132	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68133	Thank you very much. counterpart Anticevic said the EU is not looking at acts based solely on the fight against corruption but only on works. This is incorrect because it was this government that created a quality legal institutional framework that was necessary to combat corruption. And from the very report, if you have read it, you could see that, according to the report, the EU has commended the Commission for the control of corruption, headed by the Prime Minister, Ms Kosor, and stressed that Croatia has aligned with all international legal instruments in the area. Oh, God, if you had established such a framework 10 years ago as Croatia would have saved money stolen from corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68134	Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague and colleague corrected part of the quote, but I would have noticed, in any case, the one where colleague Anticevic-Marinovic said that this is the body. The National Council has kind of blossomed since counterpart Jovanovic led it. That is incorrect, but it was experienced because both the legal framework and everything that my colleague Lovrin said was created. And fellow Jovanovic is more famous for another moment that he introduced a different approach, an aggressive one, which one of our famous sociologists called political terrorism. Well, he doesn't choose a place or a time when we're attacked by colleagues or by a ruling party. In addition to that, he's talking about an attack at a restaurant on an honorary colleague named Mance. So he doesn't choose. I was in Rijeka a short time ago, and then I chose carefully where I would go out and where I would move so I wouldn't meet the same colleague, so I wouldn't experience the fate of my fellow Mance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68136	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament informs representatives and representatives of the board that the session of the board will be held today at 12:30 in the hall "Stepan Radić" 133/1. ... What about Mrs. twilight? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. Mrs. Sumrak, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68137	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's because the impression of the report can't be corrected, I would also correct the incorrect allegations, and the first one when he talks about Mr Jovanovic that only then did it all bloom as to the fight against corruption. No, it is an important date for Croatia in November 2009 when the Prime Minister, this government, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, declared a zero degree of tolerance for corruption. It's a turning point, but there's got to be a turning point in your head. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia understand what it means and see what it means in action. The international community commends and honors the Prime Ministers who had the courage and strength to do such a thing, and of course the National Council should be implemented, but not by the merit of Mr Jovanovic because it would then be even debateable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68138	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68139	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State. At the beginning, I would like to give immediate support to the report and the work of the council headed by Mr Jovanovic. And I think that in the past three and a few years, the council has been forced and grown into an institution that listens carefully and has certainly contributed to the fact that perception in Croatia is different than it was three years ago, that some things can be said openly and that some things will never be missed again, I would say to one such body without being somewhat marked as problematic, that they are not shown. So the Council is fulfilling no matter what does not have some operational authority, fulfils its function and I think it has done a lot and should support these proposals, which are written in this report and in some way reverse the trend that has been really problematic in Croatia for the past seven years. In my opinion, we have touched the bottom of corruption in Croatia and cannot be worse, because there are not many countries in the world where the prime minister ended up in prison, where members of the government are also either sanctioned or under investigation. So Croatia simply has to go through one phase so that I would say the country's bad mark is changed and that for a mandate, two, Croatia will not be in any way in international circles synonym for corruption. Unfortunately, we are today. The perception that the government in Croatia is not good, the corruption perception index in Croatia is also bad. We have now seven years of stagnation where nothing concrete has changed. We are about 60th in the world, we stay far behind for EU countries, and if we want to be, and we want to be, and we will be a member of the EU in a few years, we need to take a step forward and see how other countries solve it and how they have a minor problem with corruption. And I would say that it is not only a problem in laws, because countries that have the least problems with corruption like Scandinavian countries do not have laws to prevent conflicts of interest, or do not have laws that regulate the specific subject of corruption, but it is simply socially unacceptable to behave in this way. If it is a matter of politics, the politician is excluded from politics so that no one will choose him for any more duty if he accidentally used the official card for any private purpose, even if the amount was even a few dozen kunas. And that's what we have to work on in Croatia and I see this role of the Corruption Monitoring Council in some way crucial, to move and increase the awareness of citizens, that some of the things that were normal in Croatia until yesterday were never normal again. And when we talk about a zero rate of fight against corruption, it's important to say that it was a single sentence that was quite often spoken by the former prime minister who is where he is today. We also saw various videos spinning on television about when those human beings walked in line and these purchases were in some way non-transparent to which these videos were being made. So we've been saying a lot of things in principle declaratively, not us, but the government that's still in power for the past seven years, and it's done nothing. The situation was getting worse and worse and many billions of kuna unfortunately ended up in the private pockets of Croatian citizens whether from the budget, whether from public companies. And when we talk about the damage that's been done for the last seven years, it's huge. First because of the social values that are terribly low, and when people follow, they simply cannot believe that politics has led the country to this level for the last seven years to say which people end up in prisons. Secondly, material damage if we estimate annually that 12 billion kunas are lost in corruption, of course not all connected to the state, but the state controls about 2/3 of the money flow in this country and that's about 7 billion kunas that are directly connected to the country to ok. or the government or local units, since the public business budget is again certainly 90% of that money, so we can consider the government's responsibility for some 6 billion kuna a year. In 7 years, gentlemen, it's 45 billion kunas of money that have gone into private pockets that unfortunately have not been used by opening new jobs, into citizens' standards, to help the economy, but are somewhere I would say, and somewhere irreparably, I'd go with the budget. And seeing daily examples either in public enterprises or in certain ministries of corruption does not require much. Here is the information we have today that a public company INA in 2010 made billions of kuna profits. Up until two years ago, the company which was then sovereignly managed by the Croatian government had achieved billions of kuna losses. So the difference is only in one year, in one public enterprise, even the largest in Croatia. 2 billion kunas of money now let's say so in the positive results of the company, and when Croatia managed dominantly with the company they were negative. So 2 billion kunas in INA. Let's look at HPB, 500 million kuna losses, after the change of administration have a certain few hundred million kunas to gain. Let's take a look at Podravka. So we see, when we talk about public enterprises, huge space to make progress and that money does not leak, that corruption is contained and that in some ways Croatian citizens have greater benefits than these public enterprises and less cost because they are ultimately paid. So 45 billion kunas have been spent that way for the last seven years. Someone was saying how many jobs could have been open with that money. Unfortunately, today we see that we can't even get the data on how many unemployed are in Croatia because obviously someone is ashamed of this data, but the fact is that this money could and had to be opened tens of thousands of jobs. And what I would say in the end and for which I am supporting another commission and Mr. Jovanovic's leadership of this committee is that I want us all together in Croatia to come to a country where it is unacceptable that one mayor in the camera says it is normal to advocate the work of his wife in his town and that he gives her licenses that maybe someone else wouldn't get and that this is the most normal thing anyone here should do. No, it's not normal, it's a conflict of interest, so you can't work. I would like to live in a country where when the prime minister is in prison, when many members of the government have a verdict and so much power has been marked by corruption affairs for seven years, that the government will return to the people to choose who will lead the country. When we live in such a country, when it becomes more important what the citizens think than if someone for six months is going to be more or less prime minister or minister or perhaps president of a public business administration, we will live in a country that will certainly be less consumed by corrupt affairs and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68140	Thank you. Three corrections. First, Madam Representative, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a string of incorrect allegations, and here's the two I'll fix and that's the one where the lawyer claims nothing's changed. It is, Mr. Representative, only you have no strength and your party at all admit that everything has changed as far as fighting corruption and under the leadership of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's government. You can support it, you say it wasn't Mr. Jovanovic, that's not true. See, he's just a living example of political corruption, and that means, on a very much-sighted issue, he said what the media will never write, where 70 million kunas of Rijeka Markets say it's saved money, and for the summer of a group of SDP representatives on Brijuni by 7 kuna and driving on coffee early ships says it's a clumsy summer. You see, under such leadership, we cannot say that Mr. Jovanovic is implementing a very honorable anti-corruption programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68142	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68143	Thank you very much. Representative Maras said the Ministry of Justice's anti-corruption campaign was spent non-transparently. This is incorrect, Mr. Maras must know, because he received an answer to Mr. Jovanovic's parliamentary question, which was addressed to the then Minister of Justice, Professor Šimonović, and from which the exact list of all the funds paid, the legal basis, and finally the conclusion that all the funds were spent in accordance with the provisions of the law on which the audit was made by the internal audit department and was notified through the reply by the representative Jovanovic, and it was certainly received by the representative Maras and it is not good to abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68144	Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of my colleagues, Maras, who claimed that in the world Croatia is synonym for corruption. Comrade Maras, I have not seen any relevant world research. I really hope that your first association in Croatia is not corruption but that today Croatia is a synonym for anti-corruption with all that is being taken and that has strong support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope you have other synonyms, these are our athletes, these are our cultural sights, many of them are listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. It's our Adriatic, it's our tourism, it's our people. And I hope that the Croatian Parliament does not send them to the world a message that for him is the first association of Croatian corruption because yet fellow Maras this is our homeland and we have beautiful things in it and I hope these are some synonyms that will remind you of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68146	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So man can't but look forward to this general support of all the Council's representatives clubs and its president Jovanovic. This means that we are on a good path, that the Council is doing quality work, that decision makes both the conclusions unanimously and it has the support of politics. That must make us happy. Corruption happens everywhere, it happens on the street when a trafficker is bribed not to write a ticket for a traffic violation because corrupt money is less than that penalty, it happens in hospitals, unfortunately, when corrupt money buys a doctor to perform some kind of diagnostic procedure or surgery earlier, in a garnery to record real estate across the line, in colleges where exams and grades are purchased. There are a lot of areas where corruption is possible and there are hardly any areas of life where corruption is at least not possible. But there is a form of corruption that is extremely dangerous, and that is political corruption especially when it enters high policy areas. And it is hard not to agree with the president of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic, who at the reception for the diplomatic assembly on 14 January this year, said: "Corruption impoverishes our citizens, and when organised in the state summit itself is a genuine joint criminal enterprise." Fighting corruption cannot be the action or task of this or that political party. And it cannot be shown that cleaning party lines from unwanted members is a successful fight against corruption. That is what is happening in Croatia unfortunately. And the findings of the President of the Republic on the joint criminal enterprise and the fight against corruption, which is actually about the fight to clean up party lines. When that happens, the truth is clouded. When the blurred truth is difficult to come by quality solutions, then solutions are sought on wrong assumptions. I also see the greatest danger to Croatia. It's not enough to say we are to fight corruption, it's not enough to say here we are cleaning, we're doing something. It needs to be systematic, it should be impartial rather than a state project, and we need to acknowledge to ourselves that President Ivo Josipovic was right when he said that sentence. The fight against corruption must neither be used for day-to-day policy purposes or inter-party calculation. There are many areas where parties can conflict, where they can baptize different opinions, different attitudes. But it must not be a fight against corruption. I was encouraged by the performance of distinguished counterpart Lovrin when she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club and when she commended not only the work of the council in which the vice president is, which is logical, but also when she praised President Jovanovic's work. I thought it was a sign of a different relationship both to the Council and to its president. Unfortunately, during the debate, we have a statement from a distinguished colleague, Sumrak, who apparently disagrees with her colleague Lovrin and who continues with unacceptable attacks on the President of the Council. You know, if, as a society of presidents of such an important institution, and this institution brings all its conclusions unanimously, it acts unitedly, if the president of such a Council is cast out with such attacks as he unfortunately had to experience from those nationalist to slanderous in terms of his role in the Homeland War, to the claim that there is the most corrupt person in the country as he has just said by his colleague, the twilight then it cannot mean otherwise and cannot be interpreted differently, but rather as a resistance to this unique fight against corruption. When that happens, there are fears of both the work of this Council and the general fight against corruption. So in order to reciprocate that fight or to reduce the results of this Council's work, then the president's attack. The President of the Council often spoke very hard and very openly. But his main conclusions agree with the conclusions I read, which were made by the President of the Republic. Dear colleague Lovrin said something about a conflict of interest, and I think she was right when she mentioned the subject on behalf of the club. The conflict of interest is not always necessarily corruption. But every corruption and the smallest one is always a conflict of interest. So we can say that conflict of interest is actually one lobby of corruption. Therefore, the fight against conflicts of interest is extremely important, so that, as well as the fight against corruption, it must not be the subject of party accounts, it must not be a purely party issue, nor must it be a fight against conflicts of interest. And in that sense, it is a shame that we have not, that no proposal has been adopted in the last adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest that this commission is elected by a two-thirds majority in this House. Because then, if you had accepted it, we would have shown that we really care that this body works in preventing conflicts of interest without having a weapon in the hands of the ruling political accounts. So, on the one hand, we say that we are for fighting corruption, on the one hand we say that we are for preventing conflicts of interest, and on the other hand, in practice when we have the opportunity to show it, to show ourselves responsible for acting as a society regardless of the different ideological orientations we miss that opportunity. If we do so, then we actually show that we do not think honestly, we do not think honestly and responsibly in this fight against corruption and conflict of interest as great evils. There's no country that doesn't fight corruption. Some countries are less burdened as Scandinavian countries, some more. But there is no country, almost no country without at least a small example of corruption. And every country struggles with that problem as well as it can. But there is also no democratic country, there is no democratic country in the world in which corruption of such proportions, such as these at the top of the government, would be revealed without direct consequence of this being the immediate resignation of the government. That's not the country. So the example of fighting corruption is the responsible behaviour of the government. I know no one's glad it happened. But when it happened and the only measure was discovered can be a quick momentary choice. These are democratic standards in developed democratic countries. When we behave like this in Croatia, the world will also be able to trust us that we are honest in this fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68148	Thank you. Corrections. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stazic, what you're doing is called manipulation, and manipulation is because I didn't say at all, and I'm not about not being given the support of this national council in the fight against corruption, you're simply changing the facts, you don't want them to accept that this government in 2009 and the president gave strong support to this fight, and that's why the National Council can have results. It is not the merit of Mr Jovanovic, I have set him up as an example of political corruption, and you are also because you have spent 7 kunas and it is political corruption. So when you can't change the fact, then you change perception, so you hide behind the president of the state, and then it's called manipulation, and now someone should believe you that you're well-intentioned, and we're all not, and the facts are completely reversed. You don't have the strength to acknowledge the merits and courage, you don't have the strength to fight corruption because you can't make those little, you know the weaknesses of people go, and then you're just going to solve big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68150	Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68151	Thank you very much. Here's the truth, Mr. Trazic said that this council is making all its conclusions unanimously. Well, that's simply not true, because we had conclusions that were made by revoted the majority in that council, which is both normal and legitimate. I must say that this report has also suffered a certain agreement compared to the first proposed text. I must say that some sessions have been convened specifically against the will of the minority in this council, which in the end have proved useless, useless and unnecessary, just as the minority has said it would happen, that they should not be called together. And certainly this council is not established, and it should be repeated, honor to the president, but it has not been established, nor was it founded by Mr Jovanovic, but by the HDZ government and this parliamentary majority that you have joined in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68152	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68153	Thank you very much. Coli Stazic incorrectly said that our debate, he meant representatives of HDZ, quotes: "It is a resistance to a single fight against corruption." That's not true. Our criticisms to Mr Jovanovic go precisely because he should come from the honorable position we chose to fight corruption, not spread it. His statement that members of the HDZ summit are criminals is political corruption. His statement that members of the HDZ Summit were criminals strengthened by the perception of corruption, because it was recycled by all the newspapers and all the media, instead of hanging it up and saying, sir, you can't let that be said. So the president of the most important institution of parliament to fight corruption encourages it. We in the defense may have the right and be a little more aggressive then, because the accusation that we are criminals is the most difficult accusation I have heard in 20 years from one of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We may not all be allowed to fly for 7 kuna, but we have the right to trial before we are accused of being criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68154	Vice-President Susana Bilić Vardić, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow Stazic, who said the attacks on the president of the council, are evidence that there is fear of the work of the National Council for the fight against corruption. That's not true, pal. There is no fear in our ranks, which is witnessed by a zero point in the fight against corruption, which was introduced by the Croatian Government headed by President Jadranka Kosor, and how the Social Democratic Party is afraid and what fear you have shown by the best last week's play, the escape from this assembly in the agenda of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the behaviour of public duties. And in the statements of the President of the National Council on Anti-Corruption, Prof. Hebrang in his correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68156	And Mr. Representative Ivan Skaricic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation that fellow Stazic is actually fighting corruption through clean party lines, and that this is the motive of the struggle. On the contrary, the Croatian society is cleansed of a monster called corruption. And I think the government really cares about making it work in that fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68158	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68159	Comrade Stazic, you were talking about political corruption being the worst form of corruption and the mother of all corruption and that's true. The worst thing that can happen in some nation, some nation, some country's citizens get used to corruption as normal, when it becomes something only understandable and when it's no longer a threat to corruption, but those who talk about corruption. This is exactly what is happening here now to Mr Jovanovic, because as far as I understand from the speech of the club representatives, all clubs have accepted Mr Jovanovic's report, the National Council for the Prevention of Corruption, has largely unanimously decided, but the object of the attack is becoming a person, becoming a colleague of Jovanovic. You see yourself here, and it's a tragedy too, because it's not about speech, it's about speaker. You see, Mrs. Kosor, often mentioned here by our prime minister, has declared zero tolerance for corruption. But my people don't betray the government of encyclica, they don't betray the government of encyclica, but it's perfectly normal to follow the law, to support the law, and it's quite too much to warn as she did at a meeting in Split, to warn gentlemen to sign it, but don't put it in her pockets. That's what she said at the HDZ meeting in Split. What does that mean? That there's fear in the Prime Minister's office that someone would put it in their pocket. There's no one against signing contracts, and I know they make decisions like that, but certainly there's no way they're putting it in their own pocket. In the United States, the former leader of the republican majority was sentenced to 8 years in prison because it found that $170,000 from public enterprises was used by the state to finance the Republican party. When that happens, when such criteria rule with us, we will be able to say that there is a fight against corruption. Otherwise for your information, 80% of Croatian citizens think we are corrupt. Maybe we or some of you think we're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68160	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68161	Col. Jurjevic, every time a speech about a problem is recorded, which exists in return for an attack on a person who speaks of the problem is evidence of weakness, the proof is guilt. Only those who have no counterarguments can descend so low that they attack a man, a person because she talked about something everyone sees. It's also proof that that speaker was the first to be right. That's proof that his arguments are inconclusive, because if they were going down, they'd be shot down by arguments, not insults. So all that we have now heard in these corrections of incorrect allegations speaks of those who pointed out these corrections, who brought them forth. It speaks of their inability and their unwillingness to admit the problem of corruption in this country, to face it and to fight it. It's simpler, cheaper, more pleasant to insult them. At that level, they remain, but at that level, citizens will recognize them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68162	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here I listen to a few colleagues, let's say a colleague of Grubisic, a colleague of Stazic, and also a colleague of Jovanovic, who discuss in detail what is happening in our party, so in the ruling party with their partners, they do not look at at all or at least turn their heads from what is happening in their party. Well, here we are talking about political corruption. Here, it is typical of political corruption that fellow Stazic had just praised the man who had allowed him to take a free holiday. Not 7 kuna and that's not zero kuna. So he made it possible for a free holiday on Brijuni and then praised it, quotes it. So it's political corruption, too. I give you a vacation, and you praise me. So, very well. Here, counterpart Grubisic is already continuing the HDSB's story of bribery in post-election bribery. He's probably got one. There are also in municipalities, cities, counties, there's always been a trade, there's always something, better paid places and things like that, and a special story about some mysterious representative. So the story goes like this: a mysterious representative comes from a small regional party, passes half of Croatia and comes to offer himself to a large party. Obviously, I quote my colleague Grubisic wants to make it happen, or here he wants to be provided for life with some kind of money, clearly bearing in mind that it's as if from the NK Luka coming to Barcelona and he's going to get big money. And what's the man's biggest disappointment? When that money's gone, when they don't see it, when they say no, then there's an insult. Then they make up yachts of at least 13 meters, million euros and so on. So, all the stories to raise your own party's ratings a little bit. And the rating party is usually very high. We know that the party otherwise raised money to bribe judges, so it fought hard against corruption in other people's ranks. Therefore, since corruption is not immune, they are certainly not immune to other countries either. It would be that it happens with us and in other countries if there was strength, and in this country it was the strength, the legal framework was created, and thanks to this legal framework, and also the goodwill of all, both the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Police, the Government and us representatives who have accepted these laws are the results. And these results are exactly what we can boast and we talked all the time and we always said it wasn't a big name, it was important results. And that's what we've risen above other countries. There are also corruptions in the west with large countries tolerate their multinational companies to bribe politicians from former Socialist countries because they are used to bribery. Because socialism was really bribery and corruption was the way of life where it came to a place, apartments. In particular, those who made countless young people with disabilities, who walked the streets without knowing what to do with themselves, but who got the money and the strength to get it. So corruption was a way of life and it went on a little bit. Multinational companies, I guess, have, when they squeeze them, they admit it. So here they admitted to the US judiciary that they bribed members of the former coalition government with 4.6m euros, but these were colleagues from the SDP, so we won't mention them. We'd better see what those HDZ guys are doing. We also know that the situation was also in Slovenia with armored transporters and the like. So it went, to sell something, it went in a variety of ways. We thank them now very much for having to imitate them, for being our role model, and so on. So money obviously if it's of no interest to play any part in them either. So there are in municipalities, cities, counties certainly bribery. Specially interesting are changes in spatial plans where huge money can be earned if some agricultural land is placed in a building zone and it was undoubtedly safe. There have been such cases, there have been uses of this, and here at the Committee on Decision-Making of Conflict of Interest we also had one such case, and in the end we turned out to be stopping foreign investments. But what's here is. If we're talking about the President of the National Council deciding on a conflict of interest, for this fight against corruption, why personally? So we have to speak in person if our representative was attacked in an empty Assembly restaurant with insults, adjudication to years and so forth, by Mr. President who here has acquired such an image, a reputation. Here, all of his colleagues are terribly commending him, then we should think about it a little bit. Is that what we have, what we deserve, or is that an inability to control? And the president of a council like this would have to control himself first. Even when it comes to river swimming pools that are double-paid, sports halls and the same in a city where the deputy mayor is in office, it should be tolerated. I'm listening to him this morning on Network One, saying that here in Rijeka they weren't involved in stopping the investigation, that they weren't in power, which means. That eventually if they came to power to stop cases like this, it would be a great honor for counterpart Jovanovic. So... you've made it extraordinary, so wherever you're concerned you'll stop it. Normally, corruption is everywhere and in public enterprises, but here's where a legal framework isn't done. A lot of things wouldn't be revealed. Corruption is often done in four eyes and is therefore difficult to detect. That's where we invite our citizens to bring out what they know. And the DORH deals with anonymous reports, we heard that whistles don't go as expected, and anonymous applications can also be considered at the Commission's decision to conflict of interest, I call on everyone who knows something to say, because in that case, the perception of corruption will be reduced. So if we say they're all guilty, then it's simple for thieves, they drown in that mass they're all guilty and it's the simplest thing for them. Corruption has inevitably been in those wonderful times since 2003 in the construction of POS apartments, they can prove it at any time, the former Minister of the then government's contracts with his firms are available. So in the reconstruction, shame but in the restoration of the destroyed land, the same government made a tremendous amount of money, personal furniture work for its companies by doubling the money that was intended for that purpose, so there was a lot of it. It was constantly mentioned in the purchase of these train ticket collection devices, 4 million euros was thrown away, something more will know from colleague Linic who was the chairman of the Croatian Railway Supervisory Board, at the time, he bought twice as many devices as he should, than he has, 4 million euros repeat, the device stands today in some warehouse and it was a long time ago. So, the damaged state budget for 4m euros. And it's damaged, and I don't think it's been without a bribe, getting eight tilt trains out of which three to four trains are inadequate for our tracks, because they're prone to malfunctions and getting it without bribes is impossible. But we will still be patient until another large multinational company admits, to the US or the Canadian judiciary, what they were doing with representatives of the authorities in the then Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68164	Thank you. Two corrections. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68165	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Representative Markovanovic, who spoke about the statement or the debate of Representative Grubisic. It is incorrect that Mr Boro Grubisic mentioned in any word the purchase of MPs after the previous parliamentary elections, he spoke of political corruption at local level, but it is very interesting that you, Mr Markovanovic, are discussing this and calling the issue again because it is a sign of an unclean conscience for me. And it is incorrect that your quote is not only HDZ personification in international circles of crime and corruption in Croatia, because it was not about any other party in Croatia written about Washington times but about HDZ, in the 9th month 2009 that HDZ stole the Croatian state 500 million dollars, and in the 10th month of last year that a billion dollars was stolen. It means another 500 million euros were stolen in a year. I wonder who stole those 500 in that year. And besides, HDZ is not for any other party shorts introduced except for HDZ that the Croatian Society of Prisoners.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68166	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68167	A false and false claim by counterpart Markovinovic, who he reiterated that somewhere in America they were said to be bribed members of the coalition government. That is simply not true, what Deimler said as a company that some officials in Croatia were bribed between 2003 and 2009 and I call on Mr Markovanovic to use his authority in HDZ to publish the names of who is being bribed. I understand why it is not revealed, because it would not suit you the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68168	Replica, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68169	Vice-President of the Parliament, I agree with you that corruption is indeed a major problem not only in Croatia but in every society, because it has actually existed since when there is an organised state and a human community. Of course, it is impossible to completely eradicate it, but in any case it should be sought, especially when it comes to political corruption because we are talking about abuse of public authority in private. For the control of corruption, political will is necessary and it is quite evident that the ruling coalition majority has shown a strong political will to deal with corruption in Croatia. That's why it bothers me a little when individuals take great credit for themselves and introduce themselves to the folk heroes as if they were the saviors of this society and citizens. We should all work together against corruption, but we should also avoid generalizations that appear because corruption has a name and name. And there we must be objective, we must not protect our own if they have entered such waters, but we must also not unjustly attack those who are on the opposite side just because they think politically otherwise. However, I am surprised that very often from this booth there is no self-criticity when it comes to their own ranks, for countless times I will mention the example of Sisak-Moslavina County where the mayor of the SDP pays 14 advisors, all of them its coalition partners, all of them in turn cannot even be advisers because they are such professional arrangements that they are unable to advise on important issues either the mayor or anyone in a political position. And she pays them taxpayers' money to keep a stable majority in the county assembly. I would like to know if my colleague Jovanovic, as president of this parliamentary council and as a member of the SDP, will point to both members and to Ms. Mayor Marina Lovric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68170	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68171	Well, here's a thank you to my colleague. And I can hardly say that my colleague Jovanovic is going to do anything here. But just as Mayor Marina Lovric is known for organising large feasts clearly at the expense of the county and so on, so I guess one team will still go there and check it out, but it will stay long at night at some feast and forget why they came. So, the mayor can still do it, so I guess she can. There are as many as 12, 14 counselors, well-paid advisors. This has nothing to do with corruption, but they are by chance from the parties it is ruling there so I assume that a very difficult colleague Jovanovic will deal with it. Finally, the mayor is from his party, and he's not dealing with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68172	Peace. Ms. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, colleague Markovanovic, it's hard to admit that the opposition is corrupt. But they find it very difficult to admit that in 2009, this government headed with Mrs. Jadranka Kosor went into battle and it went unfettered, and then they call it cleaning, which is not true, because corruption has only one name and last name. She's a person or a thing or whatever you're going to corrupt. However, don't laugh, fellow Members, the living example is your ten-year rule in the city of Zagreb of SDP. So look, you used this city of Zagreb for your election and for your posters, Mr. Milan Bandić, you exhausted all the money that was. Today there are 400 million kunas in Holding, and then you put the party likeness of directors and supervisory boards, so you gave them the kind of salary that the President of the Parliament could dream of, so you gave them such privileges just to keep quiet and to work for you and to think that you would continue to do so. It's true and the land's re-purpose, the woods are gone, they're gone where you built your villas in sub-Slemenic areas, where you worked your houses. And it's not just Zagreb, it's some small municipalities where the mayors embezzle 40 million kunas and 50 million kunas so they don't get their aunt's salaries in kindergarten, in school, it's HNS's. It's silent, it's called the most insidious network of corruption. I won't call the name you normally like to hide and call.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68174	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68175	Well, here's my colleague, the fact is that it's all about what you're talking about, that's for sure. We know how the U.S. has been funded and that he's been giving all sorts of things here. But we're not gonna touch that. First of all, the SDP would be very happy to crush today's mayor who came out of their ranks, but he knows too much about them. He knows how much he had to give, how he had to give, and that's why silence goes on, that's the fact. And in their ranks, you can also see who did what. I'm sorry my colleagues denied some things, especially Daimler, so it wasn't listed what a colleague said in some Washington Post or somewhere else, it wasn't listed. That's what the U.S. Justice found out. And on their faces, you can see who's rebelling right now. So you can see exactly who was flying on Brijuni, who wasn't. Who was riding on the Supreme yacht, who didn't, who got the money from Daimler, who didn't. But let's leave it to the judiciary, perception doesn't always have to be true, but I think it's mostly true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68176	Jober's injury, MP Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68177	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Injury of the Businessman as referred to in Article 209. The debate on the part of legislator Markovanovic is persistently on the side of something that is not the subject of this agenda. 7 kuna vacations or I don't know at what price the topic of this session is not today's debate. And in addition to telling you, when you insist so much on 7 kunas, shame on you, you have stolen 80 billion kunas. And you accuse someone when you don't have anything better to say about flying for 7 kuna. You are a synonym for corruption and beyond and throughout the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68178	This is not an injury to the Businessman by Agent Markovanovic, this is the injury of the Businessman by you and I give you a warning. And Madam Representative Nevenka Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68179	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here I am with my colleague Markovanovic, perhaps I didn't understand Mr. Stazic, who said that he who attacks in general was guilty and that he proved it in such a way. I'm curious now, do you think that this applies only to some or does this apply to the president of the national council of Mr Jovanovic when he attacked counterpart Mance at a restaurant in the Assembly. Because Mr. Stazic's logic would be to conclude that the president of the National Council is guilty and therefore the attack. By choosing both the place and the people in whose presence they will attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68180	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68181	Thank you. Well, I think fellow Jovanovic has an excuse since the attack was in the restaurant, that he might have been hungry so he couldn't control himself. I mean, sometimes the blood sugar level falls, and then it's really hard. It happens very often with him, so it would be good to put a sandwich on his bench every day, two so that it can be controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68182	Mr. Agent Anton Mance, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68183	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Markovanovic, you have done well as many colleagues have noticed that the president does not deserve such attention and merits that he should be credited with doing something significant. I would support him first if he were in his backyard so he was in his town when he wasn't executive power that he also took steps for specific things. I have a file in front of me that came from that town where I'm going to give one example. I hope I don't have any consequences for that, as I had before, whether I'm going to have a new verbal attack or something more. But I must say, there are colleagues here who were also mayors like me and who were implementing the Public Procurement Act. So I'll just mention the Sports Hall in Zameta. You see, in 2007, this is a document saying that a "key in hand" contract is signed. I ask my colleagues here from both the left and right who had an investment whether such a contract can be changed, whether, as the other document has it, they must increase the costs, that there must be an increase in costs of a million and 700 thousand euros, and the hall costs the key in hands of 25,018. I don't think there are any. When else is it even possible to change a contract like that? Well, there must probably be some sort of elemental accident so that someone says that the roof structure isn't good, that you need new iron, etc., etc., that I don't list some others. You've noticed well, so credit yourself, I'm responsible, I'm spending it, spend it in my city. Come on, why do they need councillors of the City of Rijeka to wait three months to get consumers, put them on the table, let's talk to numbers, with arguments, you don't want to talk like that. You're giving some kind of a flat-rate, very sharp, sharp, you're a liar, you're this, you're that, and here's your documents. You have, I've got them, so they're no secret. You've noticed a good colleague, so no one wants to clean up in their backyard, looks only at someone else's yard, but I'm right, and we're good guys, you're bad guys...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68185	For the same investment, you have double arches.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68186	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68187	Well, I believe my colleague Jovanovic didn't have time to deal with it so much given the wide range. At the time, he was dealing drugs, so it's not fair, so I guess he knows what he's selling, he could have gotten some drugs and some of the corruption in his head there with the SDP's word, and apparently he didn't want to do it on purpose. Because if word got out that they're being treated for corruption, I think the Rijekas would be extremely surprised that it's not good again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68188	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68189	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Markovinović, on the trail of what my colleagues and colleagues have said, you are well, and I agree with you when you spoke of the phenomenon of corruption at all levels. And while the government is conducting a sharp fight against corruption in all state authorities and public enterprises, and why the Prime Minister calls on all parties to join it. It seems to me that support remains at the principle level. Namely, the fight against corruption is the obligation of all parties both in Parliament and outside parliamentary parties and every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but this remains according to this as counterpart Mance said "we are all for until the broom enters our yard". Here's a receipt. Local units remain at present on the side, as well as companies owned by local self-government units, especially where the leaders of the opposition, and then the Social Democratic Party every apparition of these phenomena in the town of Sisak, in the town of Rijeka, in the town of Novi Gradiška, Slavonski Brod labels and apparitions, forgive not in the town of Sisak but in Sisak-Moslavina County, but therefore the city of Rijeka, the town of Novi Gradiška, the Social Democratic Party labels it by political persecution and thus shows and wants to implement that we are not all equal in front of Croatian laws. Obviously, the Social Democratic Party and its members are more equal than the rest of us. Comrade Markovanovic, I hope you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68190	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68191	Well, I couldn't agree more.../The speaker turned off./... when we passed the Law a few days ago on the prevention of conflicts of interest the entire opposition escaped outside. Which is why we're wondering what it's about. Is it because we're afraid of such a law, that we must have found ourselves in that law? The law is rigorous, that's true, but if it's true for everything, then it must be a good law. And this escape actually shows that we are not really willing to fight corruption because corruption is done by someone else, and not by us, it is a great hope that we have hidden our own corruption very well. However, I believe that my SDP colleagues will be surprised that it is not as well hidden as they think.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68192	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68193	Thank you very much. Comrade Markovanovic, I support your debate, I would just like to extend it to one more question. We here separate the report of this Council which we commend from its President-in-Office of the Council which inflicts inconspicuous damage and irreparable damage for two reasons. First because it politicises corruption, and politicizing corruption is political corruption. It's HDZ's fault, and the Party's innocent. There is no corruption of party membership, a colleague of Jovanovic, until we level the culprits of all regardless of the wing they belonged to. Another reason why we should discuss the president separately, because he has offended the Council's work with his outrageous accusation that the HDZ summit is made up of criminals, no less. In fact, he pointed it out. I withdraw my original statement, they're not a criminal organization, they're criminals. So he judges before charges, he judges as in party times which are clearly somewhere in his soul, he judges those who are not even suspects because the HDZ summit is not a suspect, so he can't be a criminal. What did he do with it? With this perception of corruption, he must have raised last month to unprecedented proportions because his statement with great satisfaction was repeated by HTV, Nova Tv and other TV information factories, as well as numerous media, without any critical words, and we had to get up in defense. For what? Because we cannot allow the false awareness of corruption to rise and that the President of the Council who would have had to predicate in the fight against corruption thus placed himself in the order of corrupt people, this time politically corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68194	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68195	Dear fellow Hebrang, it is difficult to resolve old habits by system of charges, convictions and penalties, and preferably if the same man does so, then obviously, if he has a tool, and the tool is that someone is president of such a Council, then he can do far more, and he can work on the perception of corruption than anyone else, because it is assumed that the president should be trusted. But the fact is that we're looking, so HDZ is looking and partners are asking us all to agree to fight corruption together, and there's no style there. There's no style at all, we see there's fierce resistance. It's not easy for others either, let's remember the Daimler case, the one that was, I have to go back, that although declaratively against corruption the former president of the state, with the high three state honours, he decorated the representatives of Daimler, the very ones who bribed the then government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68196	Ms. Representative Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68197	Thank you very much. Mr. Markovanovic, you said that corruption is everywhere and everywhere, that it happens in four eyes, it's hard to discover. We have also heard here today that corruption is a form of behaviour in Croatia that I would not agree with, of course, and it is true, but this HDZ government and this HDZ majority have passed laws that allow that corruption that happened seven years ago and eight years ago, but unfortunately there were no tools or legal ones, and no institutional ones to reveal it, and even more so that it could prove itself in court proceedings. Because if we want to be a legal state, then only what has been proven in the court proceedings and what has ended with a judicial verdict can be treated as an act of corruption. That is why, extremely in the fight against corruption, it is necessary to work on the prevention of what the government's action plan is doing, and one of the measures is to establish a clear decision-making process, the availability of the public, the insight into the procedure and the way in which the decision is made. It is equally important to carry out a campaign not only among citizens, but mainly among young people on the harmfulness of corruption and on the fact that they are not obliged to give anyone anything to get to what they have the right under the law. But also that institutions and public authorities are organized so that there is no money to pay them to get something that doesn't belong to them under the law. Therefore, it was extremely important to process corruption at the university, and we are still expecting the actual response of the university to what is with fate and how the exams that have been proven by a corrupt criminal act have ended, and how the university has responded to this because of the message to all those young people who have studied honestly, learned and passed the exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68198	National Council President, proposed by Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to agree on behalf of the promoter on what Mr Markovanovic, Hebrang, Mance said, that the subject of this report is not President Zeljko Jovanovic, but the work of the national report and the report presented here, so I would ask that we concentrate on this report. On several occasions, it has been said that there is a problem with non-treatment of cases at local level where SDP's officials are in power. In the opening statement, you didn't listen well. I have not mentioned in one word any party or SDP or HDZ, but I have made it clear that corruption knows no party colors and that our task is to fight corruption at all levels from politicians in the local branch, in the local community to the Croatian government as the highest body in this country. Although the National Council does not have the authority to control procedures in local self-government units, it is not just some thanks for my two-time initiative that we organised thematic sessions with the goal of improving control in local administration and self-government units in order to fight corruption and at that level take place in a better and better way than it is now. And if you carefully read the conclusions of the National Council, you will see that that is exactly what is said as one of the priorities of the next period. So I'm not going to look back on any of the statements that concern me personally because I speak here today as president of the National Council, I'm guarding the dignity of the National Council at all times, and I'm proud of what I've done as president of the National Council. And I'll look back on the party with just one word. So SDP politicians aren't more equal. SDP politicians are different.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68200	Thank you. Two corrections. The first is Mr. Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68201	So I'm correcting the inadmissible lies and manipulations of our statements that my colleague has made. It is incorrect that my colleague Markovanovic and I have said that the subject of this report is not the President of the Council. No, we said the report was acceptable, but the President of the Council was not acceptable. And it is fortunate that other members of the Council as regards corruption are objective and have positive tones and that they can neutralize the adverse consequences of their Council president, Mr Jovanovic. He says he's guarding the Council's integrity. He's not being guarded by a colleague of Jovanovic. Your statements as President of the Council are also heard in Rijeka when you have a press conference and you lie. They're also heard at TV stations when you're talking and lying. You're the president of that council there, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68202	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68203	So here I join fellow Hebrang that it's absolutely incorrect that we can't discuss this topic with the president. Well, the president can't act like one today, tomorrow the other. Let's say there's a background in the movies of that "Dr. Jerry's amazing potion" and something like that where it turns from one person to another. So, there's a lot of movies, so I guess your coworker's thinking of affording it, too. And today I'm nice because I'm the President of the Council, and tomorrow I can blame everything and black out in every way possible, because I'm not the President of the Council anymore. So a colleague of Jovanovic either did or you didn't, either you'll be honest or you won't be honest, or you'll be equal... measure one party and another party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you're not able to do that, you know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68204	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68205	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I also speak as a parliamentary representative and a member of the Council on whose work you are holding a hearing today. And I confess that at the beginning of the formation of this committee's call, there have been disagreements and different opinions that the Council must do, which are its competences and how to exercise those powers. But that's what we've cleared up, sorted out, and then after the initial different attitudes, we've reached agreement, and that's how we've done it. I must admit that I am a little bit and even unpleasantly surprised that both sides of the debate on the work of the Council are constantly trying to convert the work report and the debate on the work of the President of the Council. First you say that all the other members of the Council are the bodies that have done nothing, and the second report has been verified at the Council's meeting and is not the fruit of one man, but the Council has forwarded a report on its work on the debate in Parliament as a whole. If someone wants to open a debate on the work of the president regardless of the context of a very good or bad one, then it is the second item of the agenda rather than the one when discussing the work of the council. Do you think that by discussing your colleague Jovanovic you want to reduce the perception of corruption in Croatia, that after this debate, this perception is actually smaller? What the citizens of this country are interested in is how one of us worked, without discussing the results. If we aim at an objectively informative public on the work of the council, let us discuss what the council has done, and with what report came before the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. If you think individuals in that council don't do their jobs, that's the topic we need to open up to the national council, but also the representatives' clubs to each other first. As for corruption, I repeat that Croatia has serious problems with corruption, but not only with domestic ones. Croatia has serious problems with import corruption, which we did not invent, which did not enter Croatia 20 or 15 years ago, which is still entering Croatia today. And I want to talk about it again because every Eurobirocrat that stands anywhere in front of cameras or microphones, slaps Croatia over corruption, corruption, the fight against corruption, and especially those from countries that export the most from themselves and imports to Croatia. Not long ago, we received a European delegation, i.e. I will be specific to the Committee on European Affairs of the German Parliament, who came to the national council for discussion, to ask us how we fight corruption in Croatia. The head of this committee, I will not say rudely and arrogantly, but as he said in his introduction, they will not be as wrong as they are with Romanians and Bulgarians, and they will be very careful how Croatia is fighting corruption, and only then will they let us into the European Union. I didn't mean to talk or ask him anything, but I had to. And I said that I expect them to be a very important body of the German Parliament to help us fight corruption, although in one import corruption, Hypo can't, but others could. And I said it was Daimler. And asked them to do everything in Germany to make corrupt acts that were clearly proven, explicitly recognised, and where the bribe was known, to discover in Croatia who was receiving the bribe. The Honorable gentleman became terribly nervous after I stepped in and said that in Germany the separate authorities were executive, parliamentary and judicial and that they would not interfere. He came to the Croatian Parliament to ask us how we are fighting corruption, but their Parliament in Germany will not get their hands dirty with corruption exported from Germany to Croatia. Two weeks later, the same German politician publicly criticised Croatia for corruption. Why don't we let, why don't we fight harder, why don't we invite them to open the accounts, to give the data, to give the documents so they can really explore everything that's under suspicion? Why has some affairs kept an open subject for years, especially as long as the negotiations on the chapter of the judiciary take place? How is it that from these countries of the European Union from which the most corruption has been imported into Croatia, they reject any cooperation with Croatian authorities. After all, Mr Bajic publicly said that Austrians can't get any information about Hypo. Do we as Croatia have the right to tell all those who call us for corruption: yes, but more export to Croatia, but not only Croatia, then be consistent and cooperate with the authorities of the investigation and justice in Croatia to clear these things up. Or in the background, the affairs that have been projected have often been produced only to keep these international pressures and Croatia at a constant height. I know now that what I've said will be attacked by many, but we must speak in this way, so we must demand that those who criticize us be clean. It is Eurocun corruption, but I repeat extremely sorry that, after my question to the Prime Minister, no one in Croatia has done anything, that political corruption in Croatia has never been so developed as the last few years, two, especially after the economic and economic crisis, decreased employment, and increased unemployment. And according to the Council's strategy, its implementation and recommendations to this report are particularly highlighted... depoliticization in all public services. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, there is no dictionary in the national strategy of this political corruption. It's about depoliticalizing public services. And in doing so, it is obvious that only the first, second or third men of the Board of Supervisors, boards of directors, boards of directors, are considered most often. In Croatia, however, there is political corruption in employment and cleaning women, and night watchmen, and porters, and officials, and tenants, and headmasters. In Croatia today without a party card, and depending on the local and national authorities, you can't even ask for a job and let alone get a job. This began to border with the border of political, party terror towards the citizens of this country. That's what everybody knows about. And you can dazzle, nod, and say that I'm crazy, citizens know that business in public services in Croatia from municipality to state to diploma, no tests, no abilities, no knowledge is worth anything if you don't have an appropriate party card. It is the only best recommendation and only in this way in Croatia can you get a job. And I call on all the leaders of all the political parties to publicly invite their officials to all new, public and immediately to stop terrorizing citizens and blackmailing political parties to get jobs they are entitled to under the law, the Constitution and the conditions they meet. It's not just political corruption anymore. It's an extortion of party membership, it's a violation of the country's citizens' fundamental rights. The situation of heavy employability is being abused, the decline in population income is being abused and thus forcing citizens to enter political parties. So long as the leaders of all political parties do not publicly protest this and ban their own particularly officials who act as officials, citizens will not believe that we are also fighting this political corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68206	Thank you. Corrections, Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68207	Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Lesar's guilty allegations where he says we discussed the president, not the report itself. Of course it was encouraged because only the report that we have been formally read here and it found that significant progress has been made in the fight against corruption, but the fact that we have discussed more about the president himself, so he is probably the other members who feel perhaps in some way belittled because in the media I have only read twice that one of the board members has responded, I think one professor. Horvatic, and all the rest of the time the president uses exclusively for himself. So, in my opinion, that reaction is completely normal, and especially when you talk and you don't mention numbers, when nothing is explicitly mentioned, when it's not compared. But, of course, that goes away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68208	Next correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the same assumption as my colleague Mance, so it is absolutely incorrect that this comes down to a debate on the work of the president, but surely the president of the council is under special attention and he must behave in accordance with his position, not insult and attack his colleagues anywhere. And discriminate with age, mainly because he's a doctor. And we know what is sacred to us. But I also want to tell you that as the head of a party that advocates work and jobs, I wonder how many jobs you've accomplished for this time while you're giving us lessons here. And as far as I'm concerned, you've kind of left the union for some of the same things that were the way they were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68210	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lesar said if you don't have a party card, you can't get a job anywhere in the public administration from local to state level. A colleague doesn't make it a lie, it's a notorous lie. I don't know what country you live in. I run a local self-government unit, and I know how to hire employees and a local self-government unit and institutions whose unit is the founder of local self-government, institutions that are the founder of counties and at all other levels. Get down a little amongst the people, come and see who's employed, who's got a membership card, how many members of the SDP, HDZ in a local self-government, and you'll see a coworker in the way he's employed. It may have been that when you were the union president, it was common in your organization, but today in Croatia it is not a practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68212	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68213	Article 209, Col. Milinkovic has indeed misused the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, because in correcting my allegations, he has made the first serious insult to my account and yours. So, it's a big insult. He accused me of leaving the union to politics under strange circumstances. Yeah, that's right. It's not random or under weird circumstances. But I was just waiting to hear from you... No, no, he said from the union. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't, don't. This is an insult, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68214	If it's flat
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68215	No, no, no. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68217	In correcting the quote, he did not look back at my argument but used the correction to make lies and insults to my account. The fact that he made a public announcement about a pamphlet that the HDZ youth is spreading around on the Internet is glad because at least now I know the authors of it. Thank you, colleague Milinkovic, for proving the facts of my suspicion now that you have produced this pamphlet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68218	Okay, now let's not go too far. Mr. Representative Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As his colleague, Huška, corrected Mr. Lesar, that without a party card, it is impossible to get a proper job or weight work, and even in local self-government, we cannot say that there is no such thing in principle, but we cannot generalise it and that is not true. And that is how my last appointment in the town of Zapresić is also responsible head or head of the building that neither member of any party, but is a quality and excellent lawyer, builder and does a great job. And you insult all these people and it's an insult you've said, and without having any responsibility to be party members or parties, and it's probably not going to be a member of any party, but I'm not prejudicing it. But it's very interesting how sensitive you are when someone says a sentence that doesn't suit you, and when you can generally tell the truth, the lies and the insults, it doesn't fall under something that should be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68220	And agent Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68221	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, this report, along with some shortcomings for me, is a lot of positive surprises, especially with regard to the praises that go to the address of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister and the Croatian Parliament. The report finally recognises and unanimously by the National Council, led by President Jovanovic, that there is a very quality legal framework and an institutional framework that was necessary for success in fighting corruption in Croatia. The report also praised Prime Minister Kosor by the EU where the Union has seen an improvement in the work of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, led by the prime minister. Croatia has also aligned with all international legal instruments in the area. That's what's in the report and what's one quality more anyway. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has also been amended to ensure that corruption and privatisation are not outdated, then the Penal Code, the Public Procurement Act, etc., some other regulations have been amended regarding the speedy and easier detection of corruption. This part of the report concludes that this government, led by Mrs Kosor, has built the path of effective detection and sanctioning of all those who have been exploited through corruption for years. It made it clear to everyone in Croatia that there are no untouchables who have in any way dirtyed their hands through corruption or criminal acts. The fact is and I believe that the entire Croatian public sees that such an institutional and anti-corruption framework has been created that the prime minister has at no time interfered with the work of institutions that work n apron corruption and has not allowed anyone to exclude himself from prosecution. This fact pours more confidence on every day to citizens that at last, such a perfidious robbery and corruption are standing on their necks and that no one who is its participant can sleep peacefully and peacefully, no matter how much he has become rich through this corruption. I believe that this courage and determination of this government, led by the prime minister, will be positive in the upcoming elections. Why am I saying all this? Because it is common and often heard from these Assembly benches as well as from some other benches calling the government, the prime minister and all sorts of others because of inefficientness in resolving corruption, and most often from those who could have brought such regulations 10 years ago, so today in Croatia there would be much less those who robbed it through corruption without saying how much money would have just been saved for many other economic or social programmes that have disappeared through that corruption. But that didn't happen 10 years ago, and that's a fact. However, as it is now, it is certainly easier to invoke another, to demean the government and prime minister’s contribution to curbing corruption than to admit some of their own mistakes and incompetence as to why this did not happen. We know that corruption isn't a mere political option, it doesn't know party colors, it doesn't know the level of education, religious commitment, certain climates where these people are from, and it's not recognizable by skin color, it's like we know all the harmful social phenomena that violate fundamental social values. That's why those on-call loudmouths who are in charge of their parties every morning yell "Keep the Thieves" and in the afternoon they're suspicious of themselves, they're no longer passing. Every day in every respect, they are increasingly inconclusive to the public. Such greats of today's fight against corruption stick to those if you can't help then at least get in the way because it's important to participate. Finally, I must note that the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption in its report does not mention corruption anywhere at local level. Not that there is no corruption at local level, either in some companies or local authorities. However, the fact is that there are no letters of corruption at local level in the report. And it would be good for the council to really deal with it even though it's their obligation to work. I would not like to believe that the local level is avoided because the president of the National Council is acting as a significant function to the local level, deputy mayor of the city of Rijeka. However, the fact is that there are no letters in the report on the local level as I have said, regardless of what some media, individuals, and even from these benches is heard in possible corrupt acts in certain environments. I can understand that it's not intentional, that it may be a mistake, a failure, but making mistakes is human, but constantly calling another, then it's strategic, especially when it happens in the election year. So I'd like to ask you colleagues who keep yelling, by noon you call someone, that they're corrupt, try to clean in front of their doors first, and then you throw them in front of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68222	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68223	I am correcting the inaccuracy and absurd allegations of my colleagues, KUNST, that it is "responsibility for the robbery and the vast billions that have been robbed in the last seven years, at the Government which has preceded which has not passed regulations and laws". That's absurd. That's incorrect. The responsibility is for those who have stolen, robbed, and not for those who have not previously passed the laws, a completely incorrect quote that you have made.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68224	Replica. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is colleague Kunst rightly noted that we have received commendations from Europe, and in addition to this is a vote held today in the European Parliament, where the Report on Croatia is supported by 548 votes for, 42 against and 53 abstentions. So the vast majority of the members of the European Parliament supported everything that is in the report. And the report says that Croatia has done a great deal to complete negotiations by the end of June of this year, which we have already talked about and informed the Croatian public. Today, however, in the Assembly, we are listening to the individual parliamentary representatives commenting on how some European Parliamentarians comment. It's probably among these 42 who voted against this resolution. But what about these 548 that were in favour, why are they talking about, why are they not telling the fact that the vast majority of Europeans support what the Croatian government is doing today and that it is giving recognition to both the Prime Ministers and the Croatian Government for everything they've done and that it really expects the negotiations to end by the end of June. Therefore, it is obvious that it is accessible unilaterally and that it is trying to take a negative approach, of course there are political reasons in the European Parliament for those who want and who see only black, and who may not want to be well informed of Croatia or may simply not have the right information or simply for some political reason, because we can look for political reasons in all of this, of course, because it is about politicians, they do not want to recognise Croatia's progress which is quite clear because this remains the vast majority of the European Parliament has clearly recognized and supported and expects the completion and, of course, the fight against corruption and economic recovery and everything that has been expected from Croatia to do in this period so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68226	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68227	Thank you very much. You have well noticed that the report has even mentioned it, so in my opening part of the exhibition, I said that in that positive sense, I am surprised that it has been introduced where the EU is just noticing progress in the work of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, whose head is just the prime minister and that in principle all international legal instruments are in line with Croatians. And that's a fact. Unfortunately, however, no help can be expected from the opposition. Like I said, they want to participate in solving this corruption, but they don't want to help. They'd rather be bothered because they're still holding on to something even if they're intruding. But, you know, you see, just 10 years ago, this government brought in such legal institutional frameworks as this one did, and then, ten years ago, it could very much have gone drastically to curbing corruption that was already well known at the time. But that didn't happen. And there's the sin of that government, so it's not a matter that the government is important in that part so much, it's important to create institutional frameworks. And the institutions of the system then do their job and discover those who are in corruption. I think that's where my colleague Vidovic got it wrong, because if his government had done it we could save a lot of money and just channel into his ministry that would have solved more quality social problems then.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68228	Ms. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Kunst, with your exposure I agree. I just wanted to say one more thing. Here you come from the union ranks and I would talk about this political corruption class that happens at different lunches when a former member of the union and it's very important, and now he's starting his own party and collecting some signatures, he's at one lunch of 100 demands and the labour law, 90 just said ok. Good, 'cause lunch was good. Then he first spoke on the streets about conversion and privatisation, and in reality at the time he was on the board of supervisors and glare and dress. It's part of the story, it tells a different story today, and every honor if he realizes there's no corruption, he should be congratulated, but he can't forget what he's been doing, he can't lecture anyone. And then we have to go back to political corruption, of course, the SDP coalition asked me how much do you think it costs to say the name of my restaurant all the time? I said, I don't know, they're really big numbers. They go to the cassat in that restaurant and they eat and drink there, they don't pay for anything, but because they didn't pay for it then they're named after those restaurants and then their president goes with another reporter, there's something he eats, they get some sushi and they say they won't deal with corruption because it's not their problem and that they're not responsible so let some other grandmothers deal with it. And just like here today, we got a lot of calls from my representatives and who people said, thank you, among other things from Slavonski Brod, a military disabled, and that's what I'm going to say because Mr. Cacic and Mr. Pancic called me at the time in connection, the Cacics and POS apartments that were built by 500 marks were sold over 700 euros with the worst material made. Well, here it is, Mr. Kunst. It's important to emphasize it. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68230	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68231	Thank you, colleagues. As far as lunch is concerned, it's nothing new. The lunches were previously known about individual union leaders. I have an example where some politicians have honored union leaders with a calf's knee to give up some amendments that had been made to the Labour Law at the time, if they would simply accept that such a Law on Workers' Harm would pass. So, as far as that goes, there's nothing unusual about it. It's not unusual that the calf's knee was chosen for lunch. But we're in this corruption right now, even though it has something to do with it, clearly it has to do with lunch with the calf's knee to give up the amendment to the law, if you're nothing. But, you know, the wolf changes his hair, but the temper never changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68232	National Council President Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, for the sake of truth, the report by the National Council which Mr Kunst obviously did not read carefully enough or listened carefully to my opening presentation, on several occasions mentioning the problem of corruption at the local level. So, corruption has no power, where there is power, there is corruption. Even so in the smallest municipality and also in the largest Croatian government. Although the National Council does not have formal powers to oversee the measures, it has organised the thematic sessions in two times in strategy and action plan, and has tried together with the Association of municipalities and the Association of Cities to see which model can be found to better control everything that happens in local self-government units, especially public procurements that are the main source of problems in corruption from the least municipality to the Croatian government. Therefore, it is untrue that the National Council did not do so. It's been a job, and it's going to be in the future. I didn't want to talk about history, but when this is repeated several times today, I need to remind you colleagues and colleagues that USKOK was founded in 2001, that the first Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted in 2002, and that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest was passed in 2003. After that, the SDP lost the election and it took seven years to establish new anti-corruption models in Croatia. I think those seven years have been too long and that's why we're in such big trouble today because of the waved corruption in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68234	Correction by Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68235	Your Honor, Vice President. I simply cannot believe that the president of this National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy does not know or does not read. The Croatian Parliament has adopted a strategy to combat corruption, and it would be good for you to read it, so in point 5 of the goals under point 3 says, "Strengthen responsibility", and you follow the normal implementation of this strategy clearly, I mean that's ok. says "to strengthen accountability and transparency in the business of budget users at national and local level". I guess you don't need it anymore, you understand enough what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68236	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68237	My colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that somewhere in the literature a few years ago I came across the concept of a monastery atmosphere. This concept of social psychology means one autistic community that shuts down inside itself and doesn't see the world around it, but is directed only and substitutes actually a normal life within itself. People who watched today's debate I'm afraid with great indignation this debate is being followed, our citizens because not only around this point but it often happens, I'm sorry maybe because I'm doing a little research. The debate that is being held here about what Marko said, and what Janko, who is guilty, who is less guilty, what Jovanovic said and what Mrs Kosor did. I beg your pardon, these are complete for citizens of irrelevant matters. The citizens of this country are either for Jovanovic or Markovic or for anyone else. The debate as we now discuss this topic is the crown proof of our notorious inability and irresponsibility, I am talking about political suprastructure, to deal with one of the biggest problems of both this and many other societies. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we haven't even been able to dimension the problem I'm talking about here in your debate. There is a tendency for one to say that there is no problem at all, that the issue of corruption in Croatia has been resolved. We have institutional mechanisms, we have a power that is ready to fight corruption, we have an opposition that is something that bothers us, and there are those who say that we have sunk, that's another extreme, that we have sunk into the dark of corruption and that there are no more exits and that we have sealed our fate when it comes to corruption. As it usually happens in life and around all things and around this, neither are we hopelessly corrupt society nor are we God-given a society in which it would not be a serious, perhaps the most serious problem. We've structurally said I'd been wet and mentally transforming life-style corruption for decades. A few days ago, a teacher sent a public letter, an open letter asking for an apology from all her students who learned to be honest, to work hard, and to break through life. She apologized, I told you a lie, that's how life doesn't work. This applies to us, to our Croatian society. To reduce the extent of this problem from politics to all other spheres is to run from seeking effective and serious action, it is to escape from solving the problem. We're not gonna get rid of him like that. The problem cannot be solved, therefore, if we do not know or enter neither the causes of this terrible evil, nor the dimensions of that evil, nor the consequences that this evil causes for every social community. We have had in the past seven years something that has not happened in Europe, in modern Europe, I don't know what happened to Belarus and Lukashenko. We had our Mubarak,... If that's all true, the heist that took place at the top of politics and the government must be just like that Mubarak if he was 30 years old, he'd probably have 70 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've had developed mechanisms of party blackmail, of buying councils, so we all know it, and we can tell each other whatever we want, citizens know it. It's unproductive to this side, to start with the SDP, to talk about how it's all corrupt, etc. Well, the citizens have a clear idea about it, they know who, when, how. They know what's on the local level, they know what's on the state level. It's a senseless strategy, I believe in good faith, from party initiatives colleagues on the other hand that they're trying to create some kind of equilibrium, so say they're all the same. It's just not possible in 20 years of government behavior. One party was 16 or 17 years old, and by the nature of things, even if all the honest ones in it had taken it all together, it's not possible that it would all be even. This certainly does not mean that this danger of corruption, and it applies to power, does not lurk on any other side. The stampede of those who do not want to be in power, if they estimate that a party has a chance to gain power or retain or remain in power vividly shows in fact how corruption is a lifestyle. I don't know how you do, but there's no day where someone doesn't show up who calls me on the phone and asks for help with my aunt's job, my aunt's, my sister's, my son's, my kid's, etc. Because people believe it's the only way to do it. If the opposition calls me, how does it only happen to those who are in power? It's a style, it's a way of thinking. What I think, gentlemen, if we want to be serious and responsible, it's a long fight. Someone said here, there's not one society that doesn't have corruption. It's a long fight. In this long struggle, it is necessary to ensure a national, full-scale national consensus on the fact that it is evil, not diminishing or exaggerating it. The full national consensus means the full activation of everything that must be held responsible for suppressing this evil, if you want both preventively and curatively, if you want dragon sentences, first to cut off your hand, of course I speak vividly, to anyone who errs in general interest because of their own, personal or party or group interest. So, permanently and finally and definitely getting these people kicked out of public affairs. We need to produce shock therapy. In this regard, what the government of Jadranka Kosor has been doing in the last year and a half I support, I support. I'm not downplaying that things have started to get mixed up, I'm not downplaying, or I'm getting into motives, whether it's for party reasons, like this, like that. I'm not even downplaying the value of having my own society slap if it's caught with its fingers in a jam. I don't underestimate it, it's much better than what preceded it. But consensus and awareness that the octopus has let tentacles into all possible spheres and all possible pores of society must be initiated, so I would say a serious preventive work, work on strengthening, we are a society that is left without fundamental, basic moral values. We don't agree on anything. We should have, like all normal societies, built-in mechanisms to respect the rules, laws, and moral laws and moral behaviors as something normal. Honesty should be an assumption of political action, and only then can we differ ideologically as right, left, conservative or such. But basically, so let's start to appreciate honesty as a style of political and any other socially responsible behavior. I ask you colleagues, our mandate is coming to an end. We're leaving, we're leaving our jobs, and it's not like I'm hoping for any of us to just leave behind. Everyone does what they can at a given time. We can at least be polite now when we talk about these crucial, national topics of our debate and show that we are worthy of how much work we are doing here as elected representatives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68238	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Gjurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68239	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I will correct Mr. Vidovic only in the part where he insinuates, but he also says that we want to equalize everything. Mr. Vidovic, you have said well and nicely that support should be given and that corruption is present. And no one wants to even it out, because some of their honor and honesty can't sell, they don't want it. It's not their state of mind. However, it should be acknowledged that there is, should be strength. We had strength, and we want you to have strength, and then Croatian citizens will take us and you seriously. They did. You know what they say? Finally, more in the minds of people changed the perception that corruption must be punished. And if you insist on not knowing in any way now, not you, but you're clouding the whole situation, then you're deluding again and the few citizens who are going to vote for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68240	Final review by the president of the National Committee, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am thanking everyone for all the debates that were held today in this assembly. All these discussions will serve the National Council to work even better and even better in the coming period. I hope that accepting this report that all clubs have announced will be some point of agreement in which we as politicians in this assembly will show that we understand that the burning problem in Croatia is unemployment, and that corruption is one of the key reasons why such great unemployment has come. Therefore, everything said here today, especially in the political corruption section, we as the National Council will try to analyse as soon as possible at one thematic session and I call on all parliamentary representatives, all clubs to actively engage in the preparation of this session to see to what extent to eradicate political corruption as one of the key problems in a more successful fight against corruption in Croatia. Thank you again for all the comments, all the comments and discussions on the National Council Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68242	Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68243	Well, you can't just say it like a colleague says, and it's not true that the number of unemployed is directly related to political corruption. Wave your hand all you want! What does that mean? That in America, the number of unemployed is related to political corruption, that in Germany, the number of unemployed is related to political corruption, in Spain, which has the highest percentage in the European Union around 20%. How can you possibly talk about a problem that is a problem? But connecting it to something that has no direct connection and you can't say that the number of unemployed is related to political corruption. Because just as you've now performed at the end of the debate, that's how you always perform in your performances on a flat-rate, unfounded, untrue basis. And now you used the pay phone to tell the Croatian public in a false way that unemployment is the result of political corruption. Oh, look, please! Oh, look, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68244	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with point Report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68245	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. Please engage to determine the quorum. The result? We have 91 MPs and agents reported. So we have a quorum and we can make a right decision. 1. Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010. Carrier: National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. The result? This report was accepted with the conclusion that we cited with most votes, 99 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against the text of the applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68246	We continue with the work of the Parliament's session. With point - Report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2009. The proposal is proposed by the Railway Market Regulation Agency. The Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets has submitted this Report on the basis of Article 19 of the Agency's Law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion, the debate was conducted by the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Goran Matesic, President of the Governing Council, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here is the first report from the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. The Agency is a new regulator established as an independent, rail market regulator whose basic function is the protection of competition in the rail market. The establishment and establishment of the function of this regulator is a condition for all European countries, and for Croatia in the accession process, the railway market, unlike other markets, is unique in the European Union, is treated as an internal market with a special regime marked by interventionism, i.e. intervention that is conditioned by the historical monopoly of state railways. The fundamental policy of the European Union in the area of the rail market is liberalisation through interoperability and only the market is linked to the transparency of the equal availability of all. In its capacity, this Agency shall be a specific anti-corruption body. The report before you covers only 6 months of 2009, since the Agency was established on 30 July 2009. Perhaps this is the reason for the delay, namely, this report binds to the 9th year, was the dilemma whether a report should be submitted in just six months. Since the law forces it, it's done. In methodological terms, this Report is not what will serve as basic so that it can be used later, with later periods because it does not cover the whole calendar year. So much in his, he's got three parts. In its first part, it discusses the basis for the establishment of the Agency on Businesses, on the status of the Agency on Human Resources, on financial business. In the second part, what is important to the Agency is to describe and monitor and carry out monitoring on the rail market, so there is, in fact, a description of what the rail market represents, whether through economic indicators, whether through market participants and ultimately through a legal framework divided into a domestic legal framework and on the European legal framework. In the context of the description of this market, international corridors passing through the territory of the Republic of Croatia are marked, which is why the market is in a special regime and is particularly significant. Because in this sense, practically, it has a double regime of the European Croatian. The last chapter of this Report refers to the activities themselves in the six months the Agency has worked. The Agency has two fundamental competences, one acting by initiative, whether through the appeal procedure, or on the initiative of participants in the rail market for another reason and monitoring carried out under official duty. The important function of the Agency is to cooperate with other regulatory bodies, since, as I said at the outset, the market is unique and the need to act in a similar or equal way. This would be a report that is in some way technical, which will be developed and achieved in the coming years by that fundamental function of the Agency which is currently open before the market is opened to help that market function in the manner prescribed by the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68248	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First up are clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68249	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Management Council of the Agency, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the Annual Work Report of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2009. This is the first report on the Agency's work and mainly refers to data on the establishment, employment, equipment of offices, start-up of work and activities of the Agency. The Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets is an independent and independent public institution, and performs its activities as public authority. It was established by Law on the Railway Market Regulatory Agency of the National No. 79/07. and 75/09. in order to ensure transparent and impartial performance of rail transport activities. It is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the Agency performs its activities as a public authority and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. It is independent in the taking of all organisational and other measures necessary for the smooth performance of operations and the fulfilment of obligations under the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of Railway Markets and other regulations governing the provision of rail services. It was established on 30 July 2009 and has since begun work. The Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services is to address complaints and railway undertakings for decisions of the infrastructure manager regarding the report on the network of criteria contained in the network report, the procedures and results of the distribution of railway infrastructure facilities, the criteria for determining the fees for the use of railway infrastructure, the height and structure of the charges for the use of railway infrastructure, the decision to grant the railway undertaking access to the railway infrastructure, other cases of access insurance and use of railway infrastructure. Control of the negotiations of the infrastructure manager and railway undertaking in the amount of the fee for use of the railway infrastructure, quality control of the supply of railway services to the railway undertaking, giving prior consent to the appointment and resolution of the members of the management body of the infrastructure manager, analysis and monitoring of the state of competition in the rail market from the competence of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, including the rail transport of goods. Since there were no complaints the agency would settle, as Croatian railways do not have competition, they only organise railway transport, this report is part of the technical nature, and it shows the rail market in part. The difficulties that the Agency has had with its constitution have also been identified, it is evident that there is not a full number of experts in accordance with the planned systemisation, and that there is no own space for work, currently the Agency is working in the premises of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. The report covers the financial operations of the agency, the state budget provides funds for the work of the agency of a million and 350 thousand kuna, the realisation index is 57% according to the working time, and the result is employed by 8 employees of the planned 14, and the agency has no own space, so no equipment was spent. The report covers the legal framework in the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, which governs the rail market. Finally, it is good that the agency has been established and started to work, and that it is preparing for the activity and for which it is registered, by increasing competition in rail transport in the Republic of Croatia, the Agency's report will look different and will certainly be resolving concrete cases. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68250	Thank you. It's next to the HNS club, HSU, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the Honorable President of the Management Council of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HNS Club, HSU, is not going to accept this report. At least two reasons are for which we will not accept the report, some were also referred to by the chairman of the board of directors of the agency. So the first one is time. Today, 16.2.2011 does not really make any sense to discuss the work of the agency from 2009, and even less we can discuss the programme and the objectives set or indicated by such reports. For us at the HNS club, HSU is disputed that last year the government accepted and received an audit report from the agency, which has been working as already said only 6 months in 2009. We believe this is a lost time, but since we already have it on the benches, a few sentences and another reason, so whoever asked us not to accept this report, because we are also asking the question of the justification of the establishment of this agency. It is evident that the report also mentions the reasons for the establishment of the agency, so let me perhaps mention them briefly. It says this, the handling of rail carriers' complaints against decisions by infrastructure managers to decide on access to the railway network. Further talk is about controlling the negotiations of the infrastructure manager and the carrier on the level of the tax. It is also a reason to monitor the quality of the service provided by railway undertakings. Furthermore, business is referred to as giving prior consent to the appointment and resolution of members of the management body of the infrastructure manager. Of course, none of that is in the report, and we know why there isn't. So here I am again asking the question of justification of the establishment of the agency. It is only in 2013 that the liberalisation of the rail market is expected, which will meet the conditions and basic reasons for the establishment of the agency. The report further states and contains a description of the rail market and the technical part, which is about equipment, employment and is spent in 6 months 2009 slightly more than 760 thousand kuna. It is truly incomprehensible that the Government has no objections to the Agency's report, and that it is only recommended that future reports should be submitted in due time, and here in the report of the Transport Committee we have the reply of the manager, or the chairman of the Management Board, who said that the Agency's 2010 work report will be submitted by July 2011, so this year. It's inadmissible. We at the HNS Club, the HSU, hold that all reports coming to this House of Commons should be submitted in the first quarter of the current year for the past year. I would personally shorten that deadline even more. The deadline for submitting tax returns should be the deadline for submitting all reports to all agencies and all those who report to this High House, because it is the only way we can discuss what has been done, and more importantly about the plans involved and which are written in these reports. Here are the reasons why HNS, HSU, the HNS Club, HSU won't accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68252	Thank you very much. It is next to the HSS club, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Council. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support a 2009 report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. In order to remove doubt at first whether or not the Agency is required, the Agency is, of course, required because it was one of the conditions set out in negotiating Chapter 14. - Traffic policy. We should have set up a regulatory body and we did, and this regulatory body is exactly this agency and Chapter 14 is temporarily closed, of course, to the end of the negotiations. We believe that, by virtue of its competences and duties prescribed by law, the Agency will also carry out all activities as envisaged. Of course, it is quite logical that the liberalisation of the railway market means actually opening the rail transport service market because until the Law on Railways was passed there was a monopoly of Croatian railways and they were the only ones who could provide rail transport services as a railway carrier. By law, therefore, the Law on Railways sets up a railway system in the Republic of Croatia on the principle of separation of rail infrastructure and rail transport where rail infrastructure is public good in general use and accessible to all under equal conditions and no privatisation of that railway infrastructure comes into consideration, nor has it ever been said in that sense. The Agency shall be a regulator, i.e. a call authority, and its main task is to ensure that there is no discrimination on the market of rail transport services. The agency is also obliged by law to submit a report on its work to the Croatian Parliament. An integral part of that report must be a financial report and it is right now and before us. The core task of the Railway Market Regulation Agency itself is to ensure fair conditions in the rail service market through the exercise of its competence. The purpose of the establishment of the Agency is to ensure transparent and impartial performance of the activities of rail transport and open and non-discriminatory behaviour between infrastructure manager and carrier. The analysis of the state of competitiveness should be a key part of the Agency's annual work report and I must say that we at the HSS Club expect that through the following report we will also get this analysis of the state of competitiveness. The analysis must include the sum of all activities of the Agency as part of its competence in the current development phase when the Agency is expected to help create conditions that will allow the market to function when it opens. The assessment and analysis of the situation includes the technical characteristics of the railway infrastructure, the legal framework, both domestically and the EU, the entities in railway transport, as well as the infrastructure manager, carriers and the Croatian Railway System. The report contains the functional state of the agency in 2009 and the condition of the rail market in the Republic of Croatia with the emphasis that this is the first Agency's work report, that the agency started working on 30 July 2009 and worked only 5 months during that year. Following the adoption of the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets of Railway Services, the Government of the Republic of Croatia issued a public invitation to elect presidents and members of the Governing Council and subsequently set out a proposal for their appointment while the Croatian Parliament appointed a president and members of the Governing Council at its meeting on 5 June 2009. In accordance with Article 25 of the Law, the Administrative Council adopted the statutes of the Agency on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a favourable opinion on 30 July 2009 and is in fact considered to be the day of the Agency's work. In line with the rules on the making of the state budget, the agency adopted a draft budget for 2010 which was voted in the Croatian Parliament. In 2009, the agency received no complaints, and the reason is that there are no other carriers. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 6(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets of Railway Services is the responsibility of the Agency to give prior consent to the appointment and resolution of members of the management body of the Infrastructure Manager at the request of HZ Holding d.o.o. in the function of the Assembly of HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. So far, the agency has made three such decisions. The Agency, acting on its official duty, has initiated a procedure to determine the independence of the infrastructure manager, which is prescribed in Article 18. The Law on Railways requested the delivery of all internal acts governing the business of the Holding. From HH Holding d.o.o. and HH Infrastructure d.o.o. An indication was requested of the forms and types of connection between HZ Holding d.o.o. and HH Infrastructure d.o.o. in particular with respect to segments of the management structure, personnel structure, structure and information system. Funds for the functioning of the agency in 2009 were planned in the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the total amount of millions and 350 thousand kuna. Business expenditure in 2009 was achieved in the amount of 767 thousand 353 kuna, which makes up 56% of the plans for these expenditures. Which is not to be surprised because the agency, as I have already said, started working at the end of July 2009. In the Republic of Croatia currently registered as infrastructure manager HZ Infrastructure d.o.o., and registered railway carriers are HZ Cargo d.o.o., HZ Travel transport d.o.o. and HH Wolf trains d.o.o. The Law on Railways regulates a railway infrastructure which is public good in the general use of the Republic of Croatia but besides that infrastructure, there are industrial railways which are defined by the Law on Safety of Railways as railways which are not public good in general use and which are connected on the railway track and are used for the supply and dispatch of things to railways for the legal person of the owner, i.e. the owner of that railway, and where the industrial railway can also carry out transport for its own purposes. Industrial colossions that are privately owned so far are not subject to the interest of the Agency unless they are simultaneously used by 2 or more entities such as factories or refineries, and in that case there would be the possibility of discrimination between railway undertakings and then the Agency should react. Directive 2001/14EC lays down that all railway operators have the right to non-discrimination based on minimum access to the service package and access by rail to service facilities. HH Infrastructure d.o.o. it must enable all railway undertakings to use this minimum package of services and access by rail to service facilities in a non-discriminatory manner by signing an access contract. The Agency also plans to launch a series of procedures in front of us to determine the market situation and potential obstacles to liberalisation, so it is now clear that there will be ports, infrastructure manager independence and relations within Holding, the provision of infrastructure manager services, network reports and others. Finally, I would also like to mention that in 2011 more than 700 million kunas were planned to be invested through the state budget and pre-accession funds, primarily IPA significant works, i.e. projects, will be carried out on main corridor routes such as Rijeka, Zagreb, Croatia border with Hungary, Zagreb-Tovarnik where this year the project of modernisation of Vinkovci-Tovarnik shares and the national also important direction of Ostarije-Knin-Split as a continuation of the project of modernising the railway itself. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club supports the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68254	I would like to thank the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68255	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, we are talking about de facto 6 months Work reports of the Railway Market Agency since it was founded only half a year and before them is the job of stalking, i.e. stabilising Croatia's preparation for the liberalisation of the market that will follow in 2013. What is extremely important in the next period is absolutely properly prepared first from the position of regulators but it is much more important to prepare from the point of view of what is employed directly or indirectly in sister companies by 17,000 people. These are Croatian railways with companies owned by 17 thousand people, 17 thousand families living from work in these companies and liberalising the railway market will exert some pressure and even a blow to that market in certain segments. As far as this is concerned, it's a key question and a thing. We have heard and have data that several hundreds of millions of kuna have been allocated from the subsidies provided by the central budget of the Republic of Croatia to subsidise passenger transport, so is the situation in shipbuilding, but the question is what is the efficiency of these funds that are being allocated and what is to be achieved if the restructuring of Croatian railways is lacking and is lagging behind. Because according to a national programme for maintaining rail infrastructure that was adopted in 2008 for a plan of the next 4 or 5 years, 18.5 billion kuna of investment in railway infrastructure is foreseen. Most of that money will be spent on salaries in the sector, when things are translated into figures, it turns out that it is available annually for full railway maintenance, 60km of railways can be restored from these funds annually and built 20km of new railways. It's catastrophic and devastating data. We've got a huge grant from the central state that's not foreseen and it's not in the so-called program. Sectoral support, why? Because the European Union simply wants members of the European Union, countries themselves to restore their rail infrastructure, because this is a priority and why they would allocate funds and why they would buy the costs to the operators themselves. So the state has to do it alone, and the state does it on its own. But through the company HZ Infrastructure, which has more regulations and regulations from Austria, which employs 7,000 people and which is the largest part of all financial resources for wages. For example, you have interesting information, if you compare the figures, that the maintenance costs of the railway are smaller means of detachment for maintenance costs than the cost of cleaning state and county roads. If this adds all the local roads and unclassified roads, the cost of maintenance of the railways is three times lower than the cost of cleaning the snow of all roads in Croatia. Now, that's when you look from the point of view of security and all the things that happen are really worrying. And especially because the state direct assistance through the Ministry is giving 1.4 billion kunas just to help the HZ Infrastructure. The second question is being asked, and I would like to focus on that in particular, in further work, I hope that you will listen very carefully to me, it is a matter of tariff fees to determine the price of using the railway route. We in Croatia are dependent on the rail length of the railway, and depending on the type of train, type of train, type of transport, on similar rails we have the same price, but what we should think about is that in different directions, on corridors, on international corridors and prices are different. Because it is only economically justified and cost-effective and it is not in conflict with the European Commission's positive regulations, and it will certainly be on those parts if it is targeted, if it is projected, if these money invested in HZ Infrastructure, or in the maintenance of infrastructure, as a company managed by infrastructure, can, however, be a special agency. There are different cases as defined in the European Union, so if these money is targeted, then that railway on certain corridors that will be more expensive, and for a reason more expensive, the safety of passengers will be higher, ultimately more attractive to transport. However, there we did not get too far away from that key problem, which is inaction practically nothing to say, the problem of Croatian Railways, HZ Holding, is solved. I've already said there's no money to invest in infrastructure, because a big mass of it has to go to pay. I have already mentioned that it has also dropped out at the Ministry of Minister Kalmeta since the restructuring of the Croatian Railways. I have already mentioned that with the amount of funding of the National Railway Infrastructure Maintenance Programme, it will simply not be enough money to solve burning problems and bring about this approach to inaction just as in shipbuilding, by accessing investment without effect I would say waste of citizens' money by 2013, to total liberalisation for two years. What's to be done? Is it realistic that Cargo traffic will be privatized? So the question is, who would want to buy it? Why would someone buy when they can specialize in competition here?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68256	Your Honor, I'm sorry to have to warn you here, this is a report from the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, not a report from the Croatian Railways. This is a special report that comes and the Parliament will discuss, so please stick to the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68257	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, as an integral part of the report on regulation of the railway market, there is also the signature of state aid in the HH system relating to all undertakings within HH Holding. I therefore believe that it is extremely important if several hundred million kunas or over 2 billion kunas in a complete rail system go out of citizens' pockets that we are talking precisely about the money coming from citizens' pockets at this point. So here you are in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68258	I think you've got the point too wide, you stick to the agency's reports anyway, and we'll be on our way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68259	Okay. So the agency is here to regulate the market. Absolutely not. and now, for example. Check in with the Cargo Transporter Agency, because if they don't contact the Agency, that Cargo transport will come in. Now that a Cargo carrier is reported which is external and as others will be if it wants to be a competitor then the Agency shall issue a licence on certain transport corridors, in accordance with the necessary conditions laid down in the prescribed Regulation and in the European Commission directives, to all that stands. He's got a so-called. and additional criteria or additional rules under which it must tariff electricity and other things, and this Cargo operator which is a competitor to a domestic operator, e.g. I'm taking an example specializing in carrying cargo from Kutina. In Croatia, 20% of the customers in Cargo train freight transport account for 80% of that traffic. Not 20%, 20 customers. And now Cargo company that reports to the agency to get a permit that specializes in a certain activity has only 20 customers to turn to and lower the price and offer a cheaper price on the market. Of course, this price cannot be regulated by this agency, but this agency is concerned by tariffing certain infrastructures. And now watch what happens. You have a Cargo transport that employs 2,000 400 people in Croatia in a Croatian company in HZ Holding. And there comes Cargo carrier who does not care about three cars a year from Zabok, which feeds into the Port of Rijeka or across the Slovenian border, which is not interesting but specializes in selling its Cargo services from these 20 customers who make up 80% of all markets and take 80% of Cargo traffic to the Republic of Croatia, freight transport. Now, if they take 4/5 of total Cargo traffic, that means that 4/5 that has so far had the Croatian company exceeded them or that they no longer have a way to finance it. This means that of these 2,000 400 people who work in Cargo 4/5 of these people are surpluses. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about that if you don't adjust HZ and there's less time for it, and it's completely uncertain, even in this way personally, I can't be, I won't say, not convinced, but not a mild optimist in this regard, a large number of human fates, workers will come into question, because with the railroad and the railway-related companies owned by HZ holding companies are doing 17 thousand people, 17 thousand people feeding their family. And if this problem is not addressed seriously, we will, as in certain other sectors such as. in the shipbuilding, have big problems. They don't see each other yet, but they'll manifest themselves. It's so-called. policy delaying problem resolution, because someone else will come and he will deal with it later. But all of this ultimately remains in the amannet of this nation, the country, and it will eventually be our citizens in the coming generations, whether or not they will have to pay only certain jobs, whether by work, whether they will be specialised in certain occupations and only be able to do certain jobs. And that's the policy of not solving the problem and it's definitely not good and whenever it's an opportunity to talk about what's waiting for us whenever it's an opportunity to talk about the fate of 17 thousand HZ workers and related companies, I think we have to do it, even if it's the turn of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68260	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB's distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. colleagues and colleagues. On page 22 of this year or let me say a few monthly reports on the Agency's work because so much has actually been done by the agency and so much has been established by time, the 2009 Railway Market Regulation Agency writes on page 22. "On the railway market are different entities stakeholders from state administrative organisations and regulatory bodies to infrastructure manager and carrier" Under number 1 is the Department of Railway Transport of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Furthermore, this is exactly the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets and then the Agency for the Safety of Railway Traffic, and then the Management of Transport Inspections of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Connection. Finally, it is a system of Croatian railways that has its manager and management structure, supervisory structure and other organs. When this report was read, there were no appeal procedures, so there was no real reason for neither the existence nor the constitution, even though it was a directive and a directive, a white book, etc. The European Union, as also called in this text. I wonder if we could have made a decision on the constitution and constitution of this agency by the end of 2010 and that, therefore, in Chapter 14, we have no problems in relation to negotiations with the European Union, or in January of this year, when we know, at least it is announced, although I would not want to be skeptical, that the negotiations will end in June 2011. Someone says it like it's Regina, and someone says no. June 2011, right. The Railway Market Regulation Agency itself is also based on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. So someone would say they're tightly connected. So, when we see who's watching everything and who's doing everything from the ministry to the agencies, the railway administration is dealing with this problem, and that actually the agency hasn't had any complaints or resolved, I don't know what it's going to be like in 2010, maybe someone knows, in that year, if we know that HZ is actually the only operator and its companies currently named by that HZ, HZ-Vuča trains, HZ-Cargo, HZ-Putical Transport and HZ-Holding. Who's gonna complain, who's unhappy with who's hard to say. It is true that the liberalisation of rail transport and rail services is expected by entering the EU, but God forbid to be interested in transporting on our tracks, mainly because we have been witnesses lately, here it has not been six months as more railways have been abolished or as they say the traffic in more railways has been suspended in the Republic of Croatia. Since you wrote extensively in this report, given that you had no complaints and your work, the real work for which the Agency exists, then you described I would say the entire system and operation of the Croatian Railways and all of these d.o.o., of train draw, cargo, passenger transport, holding etc. I am free to say that, among other things, it has been abolished, so other than the Syrian-Daruvar railroad, the Našice-Pletternica railroad has been lifted. It is true that through Croatia there are three main corridors: Corridor 5B which connects Botovo at the state border with Hungary with Zagreb and Rijeka, corridor 5C which connects so corridor 5 starts in Kiev, Ukraine, and ends in Ploča and Corridor 10, I would say the main corridor through Croatia that goes east-west, from the Slovenian border to our Tovarnik in our Srijem and connects the further eastern state of the eastern Balkans with Western Europe. But after pressure and political blackmail, let's not take this drastically again, and political influences within the government itself, where we have several ministers and other state secretaries from the region of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, that the railway Sirac-Daruvar is determined for a quick reconstruction, and Najice-Pleternica, which connects Slavonia north-South with Novi Kapel, Požeg, has no word or any indication that it will ever be in the network of Croatian railways again. It may not be a topic today to be noticed by the Vice-President of the Parliament, he likes to criticize us, but gentlemen here also writes that on page 24 the activity of ARTZU, so the Railway Market Regulatory Agency also writes a report on the network. So the network report is part of this agency. Since it was said that the Agency would save in the work, although a million-and-a-half kuna is foreseen, it spent 57%, 780, 790 thousand, and on the other hand it would have been said to have spent so much because the function of spending these funds is invisible. I almost don't... as unnecessary and given that a large number of agencies, agencies, offices and other bodies that exist and at the announcement of both prime ministers and the entire government will work to save in the merger of agencies, by reducing the number of agencies, etc., I think that this agency could at least at this time and the one in which this report was written be one of those agencies that could enter the system of rationalising the network of agencies in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And only the report, given that there are no appeal procedures and that only the work and organisation of the railway in Croatia are listed here, is such that we should not actually vote, so the HDSSB club will be restrained according to this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68262	Thank you. We move to an individual debate is the first representative, the esteemed Milivo Skwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68263	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, President of the Board of Directors, colleagues and colleagues. On our benches, it is first as we have seen from the summary actually the technical report of the Railway Market Regulation Agency and I agree that this is the type of report, given that it refers to only 5 months of work in 2009, in which the Agency was established, so it is normal that the main thing relates precisely to the creation and jobs related to the equipment of employment and in general to the start of operation. This Agency has been established with the role of monitoring the liberalisation of our rail transport and we know it takes place under the influence of two important facts. First, these are our pre-accession negotiations and the need to bring all policy areas in line with the legal frameworks of the European Union. And another need for strategic development and modernisation of rail transport in our country. The basic idea was to create an independent market regulator that, at the moment of market liberalisation, would be able to monitor competition rules independently of the entities participating in the railway market and independently of the holders of ownership rights. This report shows that this has been achieved and that the newly established Agency has not yet appeared on our market, new railway undertakings have already carried out certain analyses of the situation and launched some activities in this preparatory phase of liberalisation and all to adapt the system to that in time. In this Report, activities led to the collection of data on entities that exist today on the market, as well as on railway infrastructure managers, which are the evaluations and recommendations in which the Agency has sought to promote changes that will lead to transparent conditions on the railway market in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to economic indicators of the current market situation, a description of all participants in the transporter, the infrastructure manager of the Croatian Railways system to the regulatory authorities and competent ministries exposed to the legal frameworks in Croatia and the European Union, to which relations in this area are regulated, participation in the FARE 2006 programme and cooperation with regulatory bodies in the field of Europe, and an observation function created in the working group of the regulatory bodies of the European Commission, all of which is an integral part of this Report, it is right to believe that the Agency will fulfil the role for which it is established. A team before it is known that it is very important for Croatia to establish a railway market that will be competitive in a way that will restore some of the lost traffic that has passed over to other corridors due to the war. And that this development should contribute to attracting maritime freight transport and the development of our ports from which we expect much to develop. We hope that's what awaits us in the future. I'll support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68264	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Agency, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This Railway Market Regulatory Agency was established in 2009 and this came to the Assembly the first Report to be covered by 4.5 months in 2009. I can say that it is a quality report that has a very wide background with a lot of data because it should be realistic and say that in 2010 and 2011 and even in 2012 it will be only a good preparation that the Croatian rail market has adapted for a good European match. Now at this point all that we want, that the Agency works in quality we need to realize that the railway market has a monopoly in fact of Croatian railways. And that means not only is there no new requirements, but we didn't have any new service providers. Now it's not entirely true that we don't have any rail services market, we actually have a railway market because by decision of the Government, we've turned the passenger, freight, tow, Holding so we have some kind of market but that market is still far from what it should be. I think that in this development phase, the Agency should play a big role in order to allow the preparation of all of our four listed companies, which is better prepared for what is coming, so that is one European match. We must, of course, make sure that almost over 17,000 workers work in these societies, and therefore that this is an important and sensitive issue. This I stress that this harmonisation of legislation is important but it is equally important that for the needs of strategic development and modernisation of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia, this Agency will play a positive role and that, in the sense of the coming period, all of this that you have proposed here will work, I will be that it will and will therefore support this report of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68266	Thank you. It's a turn for the distinguished representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68267	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of its presentation on this Annual Work Report of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, which refers to the second part of 2009. I'll say I'll support this report, although I'm actually not quite happy with it. My point first is that we're discussing this report quite late this time too. The report refers to 2009. It is now mid-February 2011 and I think we should discuss this type of report much earlier, i.e. during 2010 and preferably somewhere in mid-2010. I would like to say that the report is well written in terms of providing accurate and accurate information, i.e. numbers related to the situation of the railway in the Republic of Croatia. But what I think is missing in this report is one critical assessment of the situation of existing railway infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia and the state of the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia, and a proposal for some kind of improvement and measures to improve this situation. The fact is that we have made certain necessary steps in terms of the liberalisation of the rail market in the Republic of Croatia. However, what is also necessary to point out when we talk about this problem is that the Republic of Croatia, or our Croatian railway company, is absolutely unprepared for the liberalisation of the rail market. The situation is, in principle, catastrophic because we don't have modern infrastructure. Our infrastructure is outdated, our tracks are driven by trains at about 30, 40 km/h. On a very small number of tracks, we even have the opportunity to drive these tilt trains. So we don't have the infrastructure that would be possible to accept these modern trains that drive at quite high speeds. And since something is still working on modernising the railway infrastructure, the question is what will be if we modernise our rail infrastructure and create certain conditions and the preconditions that our railways can start driving, means operators that have significantly more modern and quality trains than us unless we are parallel to modernising existing infrastructures and working on modernising our fleet. And we see that in the past few years, almost nothing has been done about it. I don't see that much has been done in terms of modernising our fleet, and I think it's a very, very bad situation for this branch of the Croatian Railways, which deals with passenger transport, and I'm afraid the situation isn't much better in terms of drag or freight traffic. Although, therefore, certain conditions have been created for the liberalisation of the rail market in the Republic of Croatia, there is still no interest in the fact that our railways are being trafficked by other operators. The question arises as to why the report says that the amount of duty in the Republic of Croatia is one of the lowest in Europe. I think it's one of the reasons why there's no interest in, means the traffic of other operators on our tracks. The fact that the infrastructure situation is bad, which I pointed out earlier, is also a fall in economic activity. The inability to compete with prices because the state is still subsidising this passenger transport, and then, in that sense, it is not exactly a situation for other operators to find some very big interest in it. But I'm saying, one day, we're going to modernize with the state money of our railroad, create a prerequisite for high-quality trains and other operators. However, I fear that our fleet will not be up to the situation and that then Croatian railways will be in a very serious situation. And I would like the future reports to actually have a slightly more critical view of this situation and that in some ways it can be called, regardless of what is not actually the subject of this agency's interest to see some kind of light at the end of the tunnel. Because the current situation with regard to the Croatian Railways is not really very pink.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68268	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68269	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Since the agency was practically just established in 2009, and this is the 2009 Report. And since we still don't have a real rail market, I would kind of call this report a report for the establishment of the agency and a report for the preparation of the railway market, which is also perfectly fine. Because expecting the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and seeing the liberalisation of the rail market is the most important for us to modernise rail transport. So, preparedness of our railway services for the competition. And in that very process, I see the important role of the agency as an independent regulatory body unlike the CNS, I have not listened well, and the SDP which they consider to be an unnecessary agency. I just think it is necessary, because the agency has very important roles as we have heard the proceedings under the complaints of the railway undertakings on the decisions of the infrastructure manager. It has control over the negotiations of infrastructure managers and carriers at the level of the tax. It has control over the quality of the service provided by railway undertakings. It gives consent to appointments and resolutions. And perhaps the most important analysis and monitoring of the state of competition in the rail market. So these are quite enough reasons that the agency should already exist, not wait for 2013. So this is what I propose to also support this report, and of course, in the coming years, I expect the right report, i.e. the real fight to the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68270	Thank you. And it is up to the honourable representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68271	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. This report in half a year is I would say more warnings to all of us, on the one hand to the Government, on the one hand to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, when we try to assess what will happen in the next few years in railway transport. And it is evident that in the next two years, this will be an agency that will be staffed, materially trained, by acts trained, associated with what is very important with similar agencies in the European Union, and in fact we will have a solid and quality regulator for me. Which means we will have a body that will do exactly what the European Union expects in the rail market. Their report in these six months more turned to the Croatian Railways, in order to draw attention to all of us to try to assess, the agency will be excellent, well-organised, qualified, and as Croatia's railway for this competition. Will our Croatian railways be able to, in fact, endure I would say the work of this agency? How good will the work of this agency have a negative impact on Croatian railways? And the data we've received, which is about the state of the railroad, is something each of us needs to worry about. They really need us worried. Assessment of all of us, I believe that in the next two years the Croatian Railways will not be able to endure the agency's solutions. She'll be unprepared for the game. It will be distanced from the area of the competition, on the infrastructure to be financed by the Republic of Croatia. These are the data that we can read in this report, these are data if we return before last week to the report on how to use the support, these are data that we can read in the World Bank report that helps us to consolidate the Croatian Railways. It is therefore evident that freight transport will not be in the competition, that all the traffic that will take place in the Republic of Croatia, which will go through Croatian ports, transit through me would say the corridor of the European, most likely Croatian railways, since they will not meet the criteria of the competition will not be able to compete, will not get a job. It's something that's alarming for all of us, we still have two years to try to see and what to do. And we know exactly what the problems are. The problems are non-resolvement of structural changes, we still have a mass of non-basic activities that we have neither closed nor privatized nor transferred to anyone, we still have a number of obligations under social contracts with these companies, not invested in reconstruction, we are still financing our support. And the conclusions regarding a report like this would have to focus on a series of planning activities and what to do over the next two years in the domain of passenger and freight transport. If we do not, those responsibilities for what is going to happen will also be at the Croatian Parliament, because the data we have is that Croatian railways will not structurally experience all that they need to be competitive with European competitors who are far, far more ready than we are. This may also be the reason to conclude that it would be good, given this report, that one of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament would be the thematic debate on the state of the railway, and the modernisation of the Croatian Railways, and preparations for the 2013 competition. Without such a debate in the Croatian Parliament, I doubt that something important can change in these difficult times. And I have to say that this one report, at least with me, has raised any concern that we are not ready to invest in the railways, that we are not ready to train the railways and that in 2013 we will have with the Commission any problems, and their report, because it will be far more capable than the railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68272	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Honorable Daniel Mileta, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68273	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. In principle, I can touch the part when talking about Croatian railways as such, as far as the agency itself is concerned, Parliamentarian Petir responded practically to the doubts they had from the HNS, HSU. I think my colleague, Mr. Schwartz, has also responded about the HDSSB, and it absolutely stands for this comment by Parliament's MP Holly that this report should have come sooner and the future reports will come sooner. And as for the condition itself in the Croatian Railways, the Croatian Railways is a system that has been created for decades, has created its own particular corporate culture and cannot be changed overnight. It should also not be forgotten that Croatia was under occupation, we have just over 2,000 and 700km of railway lines, one third of them, so nearly 900 of them were occupied and practically devastated. Also, it is expensive to rebuild the railway, and financial resources are limited. I also need to look back at the findings of Assembly MP Bernardic that we will not receive from Europe funds to rebuild railway infrastructure, but that we must do so ourselves through the budget. That absolutely doesn't stand. So we predict that from the European Union funds we will get an annual eye, related to turnover of around 350m euros, of which 250m euros could be, if we have ready projects just targeted for rail infrastructure. The first step of the reorganisation and restructuring of the Croatian Railways was precisely the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company, and the second step is under way. Each company in HZ holding received guidelines for a specific reorganisation, i.e. restructuring. You can also notice that a lot has been done at the human resources level, and whoever takes the financial reports of certain companies into their hands, most of them, will see that this is a positive trend. Of course, I'm not running away from having certain companies, especially daughters who aren't in such an envious situation. However, in any case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, is very much concerned about the Croatian Railways, and we are absolutely convinced that the Administration of the Croatian Railways will assist with this ministry and this government in 2013 when market liberalisation takes place, and this is also the answer to the doubt or question of Parliament MP Holly why there are no others. So the market is closed for companies from HZ Group, right. So we are convinced that these steps and these guidelines and what has already been done so far, and I say again can also be seen in the financial reports that we will be very prepared, i.e. companies from the HZ Group, and quite ready for foreign competition. As for perhaps further reconstruction of certain railways, it is inevitable that road transporters on certain shares have practically taken over the primate, that they are more cost-effective and that there are simply no passengers on certain shares. Of course, it is not an excuse that these shares of railways that are temporarily closed are not renewed, but as everyone knows the financial resources are limited to us. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68274	Thank you. It is up to the respected Goran Matesic, president of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the conclusion, thanks for the remarks, the criticisms, the suggestions. One part of the debate came out of the Agency's jurisdiction, which is quite understandable, and only in the future will we, together with the development of technology reports, learn all together because this is a new activity, as everything falls within the authority of the Agency and as it is realized. Shortly, in relation to some objections to the links between the Competition Protection Agency and this agency, it is unequivocal, but the jurisdiction is completely segregated. You are right that this report lacks a critical assessment of the situation on the market, but it is important technically already for 2010 which is at a high stage of preparedness and will contain such a situation. It's actually a major part of the Agency's jurisdiction, not so much appeal procedure and so much about the situation with other regulators. This economic regulator, as well as other market industries, shall be considered primarily in the preparation and insurance of market conditions. It should also be said what the debate has shown to distinguish the role of the government as the owner of railways and national railways from the one that encourages the rail market. We're talking here, when we talk about the Agency's report on this role of the promoters and the market. True, one part of the data in this report is merely the repetition and replica of data obtained from railway market participants and they are not the original data of the agency. The agency has an obligation to describe the situation and tell who all players are, which is their role. Therefore, players on the railway market and hence the part that is repeated and explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68276	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68277	We move to the 2009 report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Proposer: Railway Market Regulation Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2009 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report, i.e. the conclusion, was adopted by a majority of votes, 92 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 7 against in the text of the applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68278	For points 3 and 4, we have no conditions to discuss them now, so we move to point 5, that is - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2010. - Report on audits carried out - Report on audits carried out-specific part Proposer State Audit Office. The report shall be submitted to the National Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 11 of the State Audit. You received the proposal by mail, and the material and the report on the audits carried out-you received the special part in person. I would like to remind you that on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we have decided to remove the designation of secrecy from the report on the audits carried out and the specific part. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Klešić, Chief State Auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68279	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. You will be presented with the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2010 and the report on audits carried out. The 2010 Work Report shall provide information on the organisation, employees, material working conditions of the office, on activities in the implementation of the strategic plan, international cooperation and on the implementation of the plan, implementation of the work programme for 2010. Afterwards, the number of audits carried out and opinions expressed on financial reports and the business of the entities. As in earlier years, the report gives a summary of the findings and recommendations made to the groups of entities. As you are familiar with during 2010 by adopting changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the office, including authorised State auditors of the Republic of Croatia, has received another significant role and legal and social authority. According to the Constitution, the office is the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia which is independent and independent of work. In order to carry out the tasks under its jurisdiction, the Office shall, independently, adopt the Annual Programme and Work Plan, which shall be established by the audit entities. For the selection of audit entities in 2010 as well as previous years, the following criteria were applied: first, legal obligation to audit. Then, the type of opinion on financial statements and business expressed in the previous audit. After that, the material significance, the number of criminal applications filed, requests and requests for audits by individual entities, and the data collected and knowledge from other institutions and public media. As you know, according to the provisions of the State Audit Act, the audit is mandatory each year for state budgets, funds, i.e. institutions at national level and local units budgets. All other audits shall be carried out in accordance with the Annual Programme and the work plan of our office. The law lays down the jurisdiction of an office that is in line with international standards, EU guidelines and good market audit practice in other developed European countries. I particularly stress here that, as in most other developed democratic countries and in the Republic of Croatia, the State Audit has no power to take criminal measures and sanctions or have coercion mechanisms. This is within the jurisdiction of the other institutions with which the State Audit cooperates before, in the course of and after the implementation of the audit. Cooperation shall include the exchange of documents of the report and the response to requests and opinions on the subject-matter of the audit. This report has resulted in cooperation with 113 cases within the framework of the implementation of measures under the Action Plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy with the aim of affirming zero tolerance access to corruption. In addition to objectively identifying the facts on the business of entities and giving orders and recommendations to improve their business, it is also the task of the office to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public about how public funds can be made available. After the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the reports are available to the Croatian public via the Internet on our office's website. One of the important tasks of the State Audit is to monitor the execution and the tasks and recommendations and to correct irregularities or not to repeat them. The monitoring shall be carried out by means of an indication of the eight-day report, the indication of the report made within 60 days of the submission of the report and the verification of the start of each subsequent audit. The national auditors shall verify which accounts and recommendations from the previous audit have been carried out, which have not been followed during the implementation phase and which are not followed, and shall indicate this in the report. Recurring irregularities affects naturally the expression of opinion. During this reporting period, the Office carried out 770 audits of which 444 financial audits covering financial reports and business of entities and 325 audits of the budgets and financial reports of 315 local units and 10 extraparliamentary political parties. The annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 was also revised. In this reporting period, the office also made a thousand 763 insights into the final reports of sources and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion of candidates and candidates for municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, as reported by the Croatian Parliament. The financial audit was carried out for 25 users of the state budget, 261 local unit, 35 other budget users, 68 trading companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or local units, 18 non-profit organisations, 18 national parks and nature parks, 4 projects, 11 parliamentary political parties and 4 independent representatives. On the basis of the facts identified in the financial audit procedure, the entities are given standardised opinions which you all know, which is unconditional, conditional, unfavourable and abstentioned opinion. And the financial statements and the business of 444 entities were expressed 68 or 15.3% of unconditional opinions, 5 or 1.1% of unfavourable, while all other audited entities had a conditional opinion, which is 371 or 83%. Public funds totalling 178 billion kuna have been audited, of which 150 billion kuna or 89% refer to the budget of the state or local budget. Under the budget, the revenues of the state budget amounted to EUR 137 billion or 85.8%, the revenues of the City of Zagreb 6.9 billion kuna or 4.3%, while the revenues of all other local individuals amounted to 15.8 billion kuna or 9.9%. In addition to the budgetary appropriations, the audit procedures included other public funds amounting to €18.3 billion and related to the revenues of the companies in the majority of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia or the ownership of local individuals and non-profit organisations. In addition to tax revenues, the most significant revenues of the state budget are contributions to pension and health insurance and employment. In 2009, contributions to pension insurance amounted to HRK 19.8 billion. Health insurance contributions of 18.3 billion kuna and 1.9 billion in employment. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2009 amounted to 35 billion kuna, so that insufficient funds of 15.3 billion kuna are compensated from other budget revenues and their own income from the Institute. For pension payments, 34 billion kuna, i.e. 73.7% more than the amount of contributions made. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in 2009 amounted to 22 billion kuna, while the deficit of € 4.3 billion was compensated from other budget revenues generated by the supplementary health insurance and from its own income from the Institute. After these indicative data on the number and type of audits, expressed opinions and on the amount of total audited funds, allow me to present the data from the audit findings during this reporting period. The largest number of irregularities as well as earlier years relate to the internal financial control system, then planning and accounting operations, the achievement of income and the execution of expenditure, and public procurement procedures. In the case of an internal and financial control system, the audit found that the established systems were not yet fully integrated into the existing management processes, in particular budget management, which affected the occurrence of irregularities in their business. The internal financial control system must therefore find its right place and role in the management processes in particular budget management. The Office warned during the audit particularly on the responsibility of the Head of Budgetary users for the establishment and development of this system, and the strengthening of awareness and their management responsibility in order to achieve the objectives of the users of the state budget and to improve business with a focus on the rational management and spending of budgetary resources I in the audited companies, there are similar weaknesses in the functioning of the existing internal control system while in some societies this system is not even established. As regards the planning of the audit, it has been found that certain budget beneficiaries are not realistic or overall, although improvements have been observed by the introduction of programming and the launch of the reporting initiative on the objectives achieved and the results of the programme continue to address requests for redistribution of funds. In 2009, according to government and finance ministers' decisions, a total of 3 billion 11 million, 388,187 thousand kuna or 2.3% of budget funds were redistributed. The office warned of the importance of comprehensive and more realistic planning. In the light of the provisions of the Budget Act, the budgetary users are responsible for determining and fully and timely collection of income and receipts from their jurisdiction, it is necessary to plan all revenue and receipts which are certain to be realised in order to monitor the achievement of revenue and to take action in the event that the revenues are not realised according to the planned. The most frequent irregularities in the accounting business of budgetary users and companies continue to relate to a list of assets and liabilities which are not complete for individual entities, i.e. the list does not cover certain assets and liabilities, or does not carry out the compliance of accounting with the real situation after the list has been carried out. In addition, the revision also detected irregularities in the recording of business events. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. The local units have been identified as not being used in accordance with the requirements. The total assigned revenue and receipts of the revised local units shall be 9.038,785,658 kuna. For the prescribed purposes, 8182,986,695 kuna was spent and 374,059,810 kuna or 4.1% of total revenue and receipts were spent on other operating expenditures over the intended purposes. Compared to the previous year, this is more than 195,150,588 kuna or 109,1%. Entities are ordered to use budgetary resources in accordance with the legal regulations or for the purposes obtained in accordance with the contracts concluded. Finally, in 2009, neutral means of funding amounting to 481,739,153 or 5.3% of total revenue and receipts achieved. In addition, the audit found that expenditure was carried out above the planned amounts, and since they were not provided in the current year for their settlement commitments were transferred in the following year. In addition, expenditure was also carried out for purposes for which it was not planned. Irregularities also arise from expenditure in the area of the municipal economy which have a large share in financing public needs at local level. Public infrastructure maintenance programmes and building programmes for buildings and utility infrastructure devices shall not apply or contain specific elements prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy, and reports on the implementation of those programmes shall not be submitted to the expert body. The planned funds in municipal infrastructure maintenance and construction programmes of municipal infrastructure facilities and devices are not in line with the budget plan. In addition, local units do not make decisions which need to establish the conditions and criteria for the provision of certain municipal transactions to legal or natural persons. Construction of municipal infrastructure facilities, unclassified roads, public lighting, etc. they are implemented as maintenance of municipal infrastructure. Jobs are allocated in advance to a period of up to 4 years, which affects the proper demarcation of the source of funding, means the spending of budgetary resources in accordance with the purposes, the implementation of public procurement procedures and the recording of assets in the accounts. Total expenditure on public procurement of audited entities during this reporting period amounted to €14.4 billion without VAT, and of which 1.1 billion were spent without public procurement procedures. The revision of public procurement procedures covering transactions from planning to realisation has most frequently identified the following irregularities. The procurement plan is not in line with the financial plans or the agreed value of public procurement is higher than the planned funds. According to the law in these cases, public procurement procedures should of course be annulled. Then part of the procurement was carried out without the prescribed procedures or the procurement procedures carried out are not in accordance with the regulations. The negotiation procedure was then used without prior publication, although the conditions for the use of such a way of purchase and certain contracted goods or services were not delivered or delivered in greater quantities than those agreed. In general, we could say that the largest number of irregularities has been identified in entities where an appropriate internal financial control system has not been established, which our office has specifically warned about. Mr. Vice President, Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs, in this presentation, I wanted to draw attention to the powers and tasks of the office to carry out the audits and to the most frequent irregularities that occur in the audit entities. All the tasks described over the past year have been carried out by the office with 279 employees, of which 229 authorised state auditors, and the Internal Order Regulation in the office has systematised 38 jobs with 307 executives. According to the qualification structure of 229 employees or 82% have high professional equipment of economic, legal, informational or other relevant professions, of which 3 are doctors of science, 13 masters of science and 4 masters of specialists. What I'd still like to meet you with are office assignments next year. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Audit, the strategic plan of the Office for the period 2008 to 2012 and the programme and work plan for 2011 are set out jobs and tasks in the next reporting period. These are regularly to carry out the statutory audits prescribed by the State Audit Act, then to carry out the measures and activities envisaged by the Action Plan with the Corruption Prevention Strategy, to carry out continuous education of state auditors at expert seminars for the implementation of the most complex audits, with the consistent application of the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors. Afterwards, special attention should be paid to teamwork and team management with the aim of increasing the quality of audits as well as raising the professional and ethical quality of employees. Then work with other authorities, professional and scientific institutions to carry out the tasks set up. In doing so, the independence and independence of audit professions must always be taken into account. Finally, cooperation with the institutions of the State Audit of the Countries within EUROSAI and INTOSAI should be developed with a view to improving the quality of the work of our national auditors. Together with our associates, we will eventually give you all the necessary clarifications on the issues that will be asked during the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68280	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the committee, respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed chief state auditors with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2010 at the 70th session on 3 February 2011. In his opening statement, the representatives of the State Audit Office pointed out that the financial audit was carried out by 25 users of the state budget, 261 local units, 35 other budget users, 68 companies owned by the majority state and owned by local units, 18 non-profit organisations, 18 national nature parks, 4 projects, 11 parliamentary political parties and 4 independent representatives. The audit carried out in this Report covers public funding of 178 billion kuna, with 68 unconditional and 371 conditional and 5 unfavourable opinions being expressed. The discussion on the Committee praised the work of the State Audit Office, which pointed to irregularities, failures and errors in business, and the giving of orders, recommendations and proposals for their removal, contributed to improving public property management, as well as informing citizens about the spending of taxpayers' money. The Committee discussed the proposal to submit a future report to the State Audit Office, in accordance with Article 178. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to provide MPs with a short report up to 30 pages with the most important elements of what the DUR considers to be the most important elements and to highlight all and the positive and negatives observed, the most important negativity seen in the reporting period. In addition, it was pointed out to the Committee that it is particularly important to highlight those who often and again make the same mistakes and who do not respect the recommendations and opinions of the State Audit Office. The Committee also highlights the practice of most European Union countries to which the State Audit Office submits the report only to the parent committee and not to other committees. However, because of the great interest in Croatia, we are only on the road. But it is also necessary to think about how to adapt to the standards of the European Union and, in this respect, it goes into one reasonable period of time, the State Audit Office's report is not discussed on almost all committees, but only on the parent board, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided unanimously to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly to accept the 2010 report on the work of the State Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68282	Thank you. Does any other board want me to read everything? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's gone and he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen representatives of the State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the 2009 State Audit Office Report and only reading the report and assessing the work of the State Audit Office is difficult to find an objection to the work done. The fact that these people have done control is the fact that these people have written thousands of pages of the report and on the basis of that, we in the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Retired, were thinking why not support it. However, this raises one key question. Namely, the State Audit Office has been doing its job, I have been repeating quality for 17 years and for 17 years thousands and thousands of pages these people have written. It comes to the Croatian Parliament. In the Croatian Parliament with a little bit more heat or a little less heat, we discuss it. As a rule, we accept the same story from year to year reading this report always happens. A story that usually and generally research journalism then starts and continues and then that story ends in a way like that in the last year, two ends quite intensely, something that is known all these 17 years, something that, to a greater or less extent, 90 years of privatisation, after 90 years of business of certain bodies of the state administration, individual ministries, and then something happens. The objective of the State Audit as an independent, independent institution to determine the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to analyse revenues and receipts, and to report expenditure and expenditure in accordance with the plan, shall verify the compliance of business with the law and other regulations. So it's very clear, and it's very clear. However, what is missing in this whole story and that is what we want in the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Retired Party specifically to warn through this debate, which is what is further. Here we have heard today in the introduction of irregularities. So what now? We also heard in the introduction that irregularities occur in certain authorities of the state administration constantly. And nothing again. In addition, the State's audit is required to inform the competent authorities of the prosecution before all State's attorneys, USKOK, police of possible irregularities. To what extent did the state audit do that? Speaking of 2009. I think we should hear that. I did not hear it from the report intro, but I think it would be necessary, because of the Croatian public, for all of us to hear exactly what the state audit did in the area. Because the fact is that in these 17 years these things haven't been... Analyzing these reports, namely supply irregularities, income discrepancies, expenditures, public procurement, constantly every year the same. [[You don't understand.]] Every year, the same thing. Consensual opinions. In 2004, 17 unconditional, 28 conditionals were issued. 2005. 14 unconditional, 16 conditional, 2006. 15 unconditional, 18 conditional, 2007 12 unconditional, 18 conditional, 2008. 15 unconditional, 21 conditional, 2009. 12 unconditional, 13 conditional. When viewed by the ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 2004 to 2009 unconditionally except conditional 2008. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity receives an unconditional opinion in each year. The Ministry of Health and Social Care, until 2007 unconditionally, 2008, conditionally. Minister Milinovic came and immediately conditional. This is read from the statistics, from the findings of the state audit. The Department of Administration, though, only one year unconditionally. The Ministry of Finance has an unconditional opinion from 2005 to 2009. Mr. Shuker, congratulations. Unconditional opinion. The Ministry of Culture, also an unconditional opinion, in all these years, from 2004 to 2009 The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has had an unconditional opinion all these years. That's what you can do. But how it will justify the conditional opinion of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which has a conditional opinion from 2004 to 2009. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development every year has a conditional opinion. The Department of Defense has a conditional opinion every year. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy shall have a conditional opinion each year. The Ministry of Justice had an unconditional opinion only in 2006 and now in 2009, conditional opinions remained. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports every year conditional opinion. Every year. Ministry of Tourism 2008, 2009 conditional opinion. Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy conditional opinion. Tax administration 2004 conditional, 2005 conditional, 2006 conditional, 2007 conditional, 2008, 2009 unconditionally. Central State Office for State Property Management, whenever conditional opinion is controlled. Croatian Health Insurance Office, whenever conditional opinion is controlled. So, not to mention, colleagues and colleagues, it's a famous thing, and every year I repeat, every year through discussions on that agenda point, we always say the same thing, but what happens? And what's the point in this debate anyway? What is the purpose of this debate? This debate should be a function of protecting taxpayers' interests. It is a function of the State Audit Office to protect the interest of taxpayers, to control the authorities of the state administration as well as how taxpayers' money is spent. How to justify them. Or I don't know which arguments to justify. Something called intellectual services, found in each ministry, controlled ministries for 2009 is 2% maximum, up to a maximum of 2% of the ministry's salaries, the ministry of intellectual services spends 17% or 19%, the ministry run by Minister Kalmeta or the ministry run by Minister Pankretic. The reason for the state office's objection is because of the ban on employment, we had to hire external associates. And these same ministers at the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the prime minister on the ban on employment. I mean, what are those relationships? What kind of people are we? We're raising our hands against employment in the government, we're breaking the maximum cost in our ministry, so we're denying our own personal decision or support in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we're spending taxpayers' money, whether these intellectual services gave rise to an adequate result about it, but it's almost certain that millions, millions, somewhere 500 million kuna, seem to have gone for that kind of expenditure. What good is that? So what are we discussing? We satisfy one form, and content as every year, the parliamentary majority will accept this or thanks to the votes of the parliamentary majority this report will be accepted and one and the same again next year. It's just enough to go through, here's what I've been trying to do, so I'm looking at it, I've been comparing the results by some ministries, part of the statistics I've said, I've got it still, but there's no need to read it at all, because it's more or less famous, but I repeat every year, every year, it happens the same thing. That we at the Department of Defense, that the state's audit has to determine to us that we don't have a single information system at the Ministry of Defense, that we have more unrelated and outdated and that some of the collection of claims becomes obsolete. So who's responsible here? Does the ministry have a responsible person if the Ministry's claims go out of date or if it's some kind of deal and deal? The Ministry of Regional Development in April of the month seems to me to be making a ten-year contract for a ten-year lease, i.e. 14.5m euros is the value of this job for a building that is not yet in office because it is necessary to invest more in order to bring the possibility to use, and in 5 months, that same ministry is moving the government's decision to Zvonimir. I mean, does anyone here know what they're doing? 14.5m euros is extremely big money. Otherwise, according to all ministries, renting a business space is a special story and definitely one space of abuse and passing through and here we have heard the reports of irregularities are the largest in those bodies of the state administration where the internal control system is not working, and the fact is also precisely taxed in each body of the state administration that is controlled where there is a system of internal control, where there is no. Surely one good internal control system is not the one that will prevent someone if they go aimfully and deliberately agree something, and that damage the state budget to suit someone, but the fact is where the internal control system doesn't work that space is open to everyone. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development whether or not it is necessary to speak in the light of all these affairs every day when you open any daily newspapers. Is there anything to say? Is the ministry responsible for planned revenue and planned expenditure? In a responsible way, I repeat. Not only in the ministry, but also in all public enterprises under the Ministry's authority. And finally I'm asking again why all this? Whether it's a form, and the fact that we've been discussing form all these years, or we're willing to change content stuff. Which, and not only is legal, but the human obligation is behind it that the money that your citizens have entrusted you with spending in a responsible manner. Speaking only of the report there is no reason to mean the quality of the work done by the State Audit Office has no reason not to support it. But not taking it, and as has been determined all these years, the "Afers of Trucks" say, where we have an inadequacy and judgment, where the State Audit Office has certainly been involved in creating a cloudy situation. That's why I don't see why I support the work of the State Audit Office, but the key question is why is all this if nothing happens? The Committee on Finance also concluded on its board that an analysis was provided to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which was done by all those who did not do what they needed or did not act on the findings of the State Audit Office. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues are very clear and we all know what this is about. Do we have the willingness to change that? As a sign of that, we at the HNS-HSU Club will be kept on this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68284	Thank you. We have 3 corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With and respecting the good intentions of exhibiting on behalf of the Club of Honored Mr. Koračević, I must note that it is an incorrect comment that, with all these reports of the State Audit, no one has done anything at all and that there is actually a purpose for why we are doing this at all. That's one big lie. Namely, the game of the case and some of us are sitting here and on the other side, and we ourselves are subject to the leadership of local self-government just to state audits and their controls and these last few years I've witnessed that... a lot has been done. From the Public Procurement Act, from electronic enrolment, from a series of training people how to do it at all, to the formation of the internal control offices themselves in local self-government units, regional and regional, and the basis of these and results. The fundamental question is, if we sum up the results a few years ago, what is the state of disrespect, so... either 10 years ago or 6 or 7, and what is it like today. I personally as the leader got 6, 7 conditions to fix, so there was one state of property. But in order to resolve the state of property it took a few years, a solution to property-legal projects and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68286	Time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68287	It's a real topic and if we were to discuss it further in... we'd have completely different results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68288	Thank you very much. It's time to stick to. Dear representative Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the incorrect quote from Mr. Korajevic that says we're satisfying the form, and the content remains the same. This is incorrect because only the development of a model for the establishment of an internal financial control system clearly testifies to the intentional and systematic control of the spending of public money. In addition, Mr Koracevic, the difference and distinction between conditional and unconditional opinion is not such that the conditional opinion necessarily assumes the characteristics of a criminal offence that would be prosecuted under official duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68290	Thank you. And distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would also correct the incorrect allegations to MP Korajevic who said that every year is the same thing, which is really not true. In fact, most entities have reduced the number of irregularities, especially in those where the audit is carried out each year. It should also be said that the criteria of the Treasury are now becoming more severe. That should also be considered. I would like to say that the government has also adopted a new strategy for the development of the internal financial control system in the public sector based on the findings of the State Audit. It should also be recalled that we have passed a fiscal responsibility law which strengthens financial discipline and responsibility for the proper and transparent spending of budgetary resources at all levels and in all users. And it should be recalled that this law of opposition did not support it. Therefore, support such quality laws, and it will certainly continue to be better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68292	Thank you. ... Don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We need to give an insight into everyone, from the municipality to the Parliament, into all the audit reports, so there will be more order. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief state auditors with associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. So when it comes to the State Audit Office Report, then we must stress that it should be observed from two aspects. From one aspect of the content of the report, how to produce the report, the scope of the work of the State Audit Office. And from the second aspect of the findings, the observed state and the observed data and the irregularities observed by the State Audit Office. From the aspect of content, the scope of work, the implementation of the work programme can be extremely satisfied. The State Audit Office has completed its work programme, has done an extremely large and complex job. This proves thousands of pages written in the State Audit Office's report, 770 audits, a thousand 763 insights into final reports. And 770 audits of financial reports included 444 entities and 178 billion public funds. It is a huge job that requires exceptional knowledge, skills, expertise and indeed the HDZ club supports and accepts such a report. From the findings and from what the State Audit Office has found, there is a phenomenon that we can be satisfied with because there are positive shifts, there are phenomena that eliminated shortcomings where the advisory way of review has contributed to both state-owned companies and users of budgetary and local units doing business in a more transparent manner by respecting more laws, but there are also phenomena that we cannot possibly be satisfied with and which are being seen and which I must take even clearer measures against in the future. But this is an opportunity to tell about each other. Of the 444 audits, there are only 5 unfavourable opinions. And that's good. That's 1.1%, in the process it's an excellent result. Two non-profit organizations and three local units. 68 unconditional or 15.3% and 371 are conditional opinions. I think it's a small percentage of the unconditional and that the future would certainly expect it to be a greater share of unconditional opinions. Of those audited entities, as a positive example, state budget beneficiaries should be highlighted because there are 12 unconditional opinions and 13 conditional ones. That's one of the best results so far. And there's a shift, progress is visible. It should be pointed out that there are no strict criteria under which a person is granted unconditional opinion, one conditional and one unfavourable. There's a general criterion. So there are those who are unconditional or who are very close and unconditional and there are those who are very close to an unfavourable opinion. That's what we need to keep in mind. And there is a huge difference within conditional opinions that are only a little short to get an unconditional opinion, but which is even slightly missing, or perhaps a little bit has been overlooked, so they have been granted a conditional opinion rather than an unfavourable opinion. And when we evaluate, then we have to keep that in mind. Of those who have been observed as a rule, we can point out some whose shortcomings are repeated. And that is that the system of financial internal control is not sufficient and that needs to be done. And very often, the report states for individual entities that the internal financial control system is missing. There are cases where income and expenditure are not planned, there are cases where expenditures are not recorded at the time of the business event but at the time of payment of the obligation, and very often the Office for State Audit points out and notes and recommends that such things should be corrected and very often corrected as a rule. But there are also those who are trying to run accounting policies creatively. It should be pointed out in particular that there is no room for creativity in accounting policies, but that it must be consistently implemented. There are cases where the paid entities have been paid in advance even though this was not intended or permitted. It has been said that the entities engaged in investment in investment funds, and the budgetary resources are not therefore foreseen. There are hundreds and hundreds of unrecorded accounts found even in drawers when the mayoral office was handed over that so many contracts in the town of Zlatar were found when the mayor made the handover that there were invoices in drawers and contracts that no one showed or registered anywhere. And it's been tolerated for years. There were also hundreds of paid commitments and without credible documentation, millions were spent on the purchase of equipment without the competition being respected. The state audit has seen a large number of increases in costs outside the agreed costs. It noted an increase in prices in some cases where this was not provided for even by adding the contract regulated. The state audit particularly often says for most business entities that it is insufficient to worry about the collection of its claims. Very often, collection instruments are not used, but they do not send warnings. It is often delayed in payment of liabilities, and therefore heavy interest rates are charged. There are examples and unintended use of funds, there are examples that some of the HNS Club were glad to hear but there are examples where local units were in debt without the consent of the Ministry of Finance and above the allowed limit. There are unused and unrealised loans, there are situations where no procurement plans are adopted at all, so that accounting documents are not controlled, so-called. the account is not liquidated, not controlled and the responsible person does not sign that account can be entered. There are also cases that expenses are not recorded at all. For example, in the City of Zagreb, only this 550 million kuna was unrecorded or unaccounted for. There are cases that concessions are not charged, and there are also cases of activity being carried out where concession is needed, and there are no concessions. And it's particularly expressed in summer along the Adriatic coast. There are cases of interest-free loans returning irregularly and not accounting for tight late payment interest. No contributions are accounted for, over-evaluations in advertising and sponsorship, even cases of contracting the maintenance of equipment which is not only amortised but also out of use. And when we analyze these problems that we've identified from the main ones, where the biggest problems are, we'll see that the biggest problems are local self-government and regional units. There are huge problems at the local level. An example of how it should not be done, so that it should not be treated with state property, so that it should not be treated with its country, is these five examples of the Port Captain, the Firearms Community, the City of Zlatar, the Oriovac Municipality and the Galovac Municipality. These examples cannot serve anyone as a positive example. These examples should be pointed out so that no one would think of others doing so. And there is such a high degree of social irresponsibility, a high degree of ignoring legal regulations, a high degree of ignorance of procedures, a high degree of ignorance of accounting standards and policies, but a lack of necessary levels of education and expertise is also visible. Not to mention lack of political and moral responsibility, but what needs to be concerned, there is also a lack of criminal responsibility. When viewing the expenditures of public procurement, which amounted to €14 billion 352 million of these without the public procurement process being applied, there were 8% on average, i.e. a billion and 127 million kuna. But here, if we analyze who is ahead, the front of state-owned companies with 829 million and 21% of the total expenditure on public procurement, then non-profit organisations with the highest share of 28%, 19 million compared to 71 million and companies owned by local units, etc. It was here that the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office were given, and thus the state of the individual audited entity can be assessed. The users of the state budget were 25 audited, and the number of recommendations 72 meant 2.9 recommendations per audited entity. The most calls for politicians and political parties, and political parties have fewer recommendations than entities, 9 recommendations, 11 political parties have been revised. Independent no recommendation had a warrant A4... However, companies owned by local units, as much as 5.8 recommendations and orders per audited entity, and state-owned companies 6.5, mean 13 commercial companies 85 orders and recommendations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we try to isolate the most important, key problems, the most important shortcomings, three places are the first in irregularities to avoid the public procurement obligation 1 billion and 130 million kunas were not respected by the public procurement process. The non-payment of due liabilities. Very rarely, the audited entity has to regularly take all the measures and use all the instruments for the collection of outstanding claims, and the example that is particularly steep is the City of Zagreb, which has unpaid claims of 2 billion and 600 million kunas, obtained unpaid claims. And the third moment that's most visible is writing without proper documentation, both income and expenditure. It's inadmissible for some people to keep paperwork on their drawers. But I said there was a need to separate the opinion of the report and of what the State Office found in the subjects by revising them. The Committee on Finance and the Budget stressed the need to specify the names of those to whom irregularities apply. So here's one example of the report, page 252, states that of the 444 audited subjects 28 did not show them about the actions taken. There are no data missing from the 28th. So far in the State Audit Office reports, we have often warned of this and often lacked this necessary dose of courage. The State Audit Office's reports did not have the courage to state all those repeating and detecting irregularities. But due to the long-term interests of the Republic of Croatia, I assume and is expected to be the future State Audit Office with its reports and that these reports will also include the necessary amount of courage and will then be excellent, but the HDZ Club commends this report and will vote for its acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68294	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68295	So I want to correct two incorrect allegations from fellow Maric, who in his debate has denied himself. Namely, he said there are no clear criteria for defining the limit between giving a conditional and unconditional opinion. However, all of what he later listed, and... financial controls, payment by advance for a service for which it was not necessary, avoidance of public procurement procedures, therefore very clear, clear borders and criteria when we talk about conditional and unconditional. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Other incorrect allegations, the biggest problems are in local self-government units and regional ones. Numberedly, however, out of these eight ministries that I have mentioned, which have been getting a conditional opinion for 7 years, they have 20% of the state budget. Therefore, the units of local self-government are numerical, but they are the financial ministries I mentioned there. And when we talk about local self-government units that the State Audit was effective, now it must have been Požega-Slavon County headed by Mayor Bagaric who came to bankruptcy when she came. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68296	SDP club, Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68297	Dear Vice President, the state's chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us here is the 2010 State Audit Office Report together with the 2009 Audit Report. This is therefore the first State Audit Report since it was last amended by the Croatian Constitution, by the introduction of Article 54. The State Audit Office designated as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia, independent and independent in its work, which is a basic prerequisite for effective public sector audit as the one managed by public money and state property. The report is and this time, in our opinion, deserves to be said to the auditor's dictionary opinion unconditionally, and the State Audit Office is reaffirmed as a strong link in the chain of public money control and protection of state property. In 2010 770 audits were carried out from the State budget audit to the revision of political party financial reports. The control covers public funds of EUR 178 billion, which is more than half of gross domestic product. In other words, every other kuna in the total value of all goods and services produced during 2009 in Croatia went through the hands of state auditors and it provides this report with one representativeness, i.e. it is a quality basis for making certain conclusions. And one such conclusion is that in 16 years of continuous, valuable and predicating work by the state auditors, a lot has been done to reduce the number of irregularities identified and illegalities on the ground throughout Croatia, but unfortunately there are still many irregularities and illegalities. As it seems in the reporting year, it confirms that out of the total 444 audited entities from local to state level, 68 or 15% received unconditional opinion while even 376 or 85% received more or less, it was more or less problematic. So it's either conditional or negative. And this ratio of 15% unconditional and 85% conditional and negative opinions is actually, with little variations, constant year by year. Something a little better is those who are regularly audited every year, which is therefore under constant control. But a large number of subjects insist on showing the same gaps. We'd say "dogs bark and caravans pass." In particular, the local level has proved particularly problematic. In fact, of the 261 revised local self-government units, 11 of them, which is a 5% unconditional opinion. Even 247, 95% of the total number of audited, received conditional opinions, and three units received negative opinions. Also, a total of 55 audited companies owned by local units of 49, so almost 90% received conditional audit opinions, and only 6 or slightly more than 10% received unconditional opinions. These data could conclude that the illegal management of public money is at local level a mass phenomenon and that almost all local officials are bad officials, we could even say criminals. But that's not the case. Part of the failure is simply due to lack of expertise from the local administration because local self-government cannot afford professionals because of the lack of funds, which is certainly due to the high fiscal centralisation of Croatia. And that we are indeed a highly centralised state also confirms the data from this audit report that is before us today. In the total public revenues, revenues and receipts of the state budget take part with 85%, the City of Zagreb with 4.3%, and all other local and regional self-government, with 429 municipalities, 126 cities and 20 counties participating only with 10.7%. Although the Government is full of the mouth of decentralisation of the latest changes in tax regulations, as well as the current economic crisis resulting in a drastic reduction in the number of employees and a fall in salaries as a basis for the calculation of income tax, which is the basic income of local budgets, all this, unfortunately, contributes to further centralisation, i.e. further deterioration of the position of local self-government in primary distribution. It is evident from the data that the revenues and receipts of the State budget are growing compared to the planned by 4.2% while the revenues and receipts of local budgets fall by 10.2% of the City of Zagreb, and the local units have to stress this even by 16.5%. When talking about irregularities identified in local and regional self-government, it should certainly be pointed out that a large number of those are the same, especially when it comes to accidental spending of funds conditional upon and inadequate or unspecified legal regulations, and then it comes to the soul of the Government which does not update the legislative framework which is its business and its responsibility. The incomparability of the legislative framework can also be illustrated by an example of municipal compensation. The funds for municipal fees are intended and are financed by disposal, public lighting, and maintenance of public surfaces, unclassified roads, cemetery and crematorium. Thus, a relatively narrow range of municipal jobs and apparently the surplus of municipal compensation is directed to other purposes. Because local self-government needs are huge, and total budgets are insufficient with income tax revenues as the primary source income of municipalities, cities and counties being significantly reduced after last year's changes to the Income Tax Act. Let me get this straight. The government must change the laws and those relating to parafiscal givings and their purpose. But more so, those that will result in fiscal decentralisation. In this respect, I will recall that the SDP offers a solution to replace, for example, a system of collecting funds from a municipal fee with a real estate tax system that would not only be far more just for taxpayers but the purpose of the funds collected would not be so limited. Therefore, the funds collected would be channelled into municipal infrastructure, but also into other programmes, such as social ones. If the review principle on the material importance of detected failures is respected, then unfortunately the situation is far worse than this at local level, she at the state level, which her colleague Koračević spoke of through correction for a little while, above all, in the ministries, because some of them have precisely huge assets. Out of the 16 ministries, only 7 of them received unconditional opinion, and even 9 of them conditionally. And what's most problematic, as many as 8 of those 9 are directors, so they've been getting conditional opinions all these years in continuum. These ministries indeed deserve to be named by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Regional Development. In recent years, it has somehow coincided with the arrival of Ministers Milinovic and the Ministry of Health getting a conditional opinion. What is more, the tax administration, the institution that controls others, gets a conditional opinion. Not to mention the state budget, which has also been subscribed to conditional opinion. I said the departments run huge state property. And how do they do that? How, my lord? They're doing it in a wasteless manner, and I'm going to say "sleepy" way. While hundreds of state-owned properties are staring blank and literally failing, the ministries spend annually only on renting a business space of over 60 million kuna. An infamous record player is the Ministry of Finance, who spends 16 million kuna a year for rent. And if available facilities were put into service by the ministries, millions of kuna could be earned. There are no changes to the ministry after 16 years, no bad plans remain, property still not recorded in the business books, public procurement continues to take place beyond the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Certainly the most dramatic example of such irresponsible behaviour is the Ministry of Defence, which was given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 1992 to manage huge assets. It's more than 38 thousand apartments, more than 3,000 700 garages, and more than 400 business spaces. Almost half of the available business spaces are now empty. No lease or lease contracts have been concluded for a number of these facilities since 1997. Requests for flats sold on ring payments are not shown in the main book and financial reports. The audit found that, in most cases, the ministry did not take measures to collect claims that amounted to more than 44 million kuna on the available data. The court proceedings were not conducted in due time, so most of these claims will never be charged, as debtors in the meantime ended up in bankruptcy. The biggest problem is that the Ministry of Defence doesn't really know what property it has, because there's no unique information system for tracking real estate, and there's not enough information-based employees to transfer data from existing bases to a new real estate management program. I'm conditional on saying a new programme, because it was obtained long ago in 2005, so technologically we can say it's actually outdated, and it wasn't functional at all. All these colleagues and colleagues sound almost as amazing as the worst horror in the country where the Prime Minister says every kuna is as big as a mountain. And I must say it is almost incredible that for this irresponsible management of Croatian citizens, the MORH gets a conditional opinion from the State Audit Office, not negatively. Perhaps, in fact, I wonder if it is unfounded to wonder if perhaps we should change the criteria for the formulation of an audit opinion? This team more that only negative audit opinions end up on the board of state lawyers, and the negative opinions in this report are actually extremely little, surprisingly little, with even for these, therefore we have no feedback on what their destiny is. The SDP club asked to become a practice for the State's Attorney's Office to report to the Council on the fate of legal persons who received a negative audit opinion, however, it was not accepted by the ruling coalition of course, however. So we can conclude that the audit is doing its job, however, the question is how the government is doing it with the results of the audits and how, more importantly, the State's Attorney's Office is doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68298	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague says, of course, incorrectly that everything contributes to further centralization of local and regional self-government. This is an incorrect quote because it is exactly the financial position of our regional self-government, i.e. the county strengthened after the decentralisation of public needs, such as primary and secondary education, health care, social care, fire, but the financial force of these units of regional self-government is different and different, and of course depends on sources of finance, i.e. on taxes. I hope my colleague knows that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68300	HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68301	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. By reading this report, a man doesn't know whether to cry or to laugh. Here's a reason for the subject. And the dilemma. In accordance with the powers laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Revision Act and other regulations, the State Audit Office has been designated as the Supreme Audit Institution responsible for the control of planning, collection, deployment and spending of public funds. The shortest said role of the State Audit Office is of paramount importance when it comes to the control of the way, regularity and legality of the spending of public funds. And what the situation in the Republic of Croatia is about the legality of spending public money should not be spent too many words. As HDZ likes to say transparently that it can't be more transparent, the people say thieving to thieving. Prison facilities are charged with temporary release so that others can enter. And what are we witnessing in such a situation today? Texts on more than 260 pages that show neither thieving nor thieves, nor stolen prey. According to this report, there was a folk "and a wolf full and sheep in number." And a good part of the wolves would be said already in the tolls, but no sign of the sheep or the money or the voice. This could briefly describe this report on the work of the State Audit Office. The findings, conclusions and opinions of the State Audit Office in this report are above all interesting. In his findings, the office expressed several kinds of opinions. Unconditional opinion or it would be said pure who tears, simply put, is the finding without objection and without the elements of the crime. A conditional opinion or a folk opinion is not an "A" but four to five. In other words, this is the kind of finding when auditors see minor irregularities, but they don't see the elements of the crime. And finally an unfavourable opinion or, as they say, this is a transparent business. Well, there's already work to do here for both the Jump and the DORH. Here are several examples that illustrate the objectivity and credibility of opinions given. The state budget and its users – on the financial reports and business of state budget users is expressed 25 opinions, 12 unconditional and 13 conditional opinions. Among other things, he expressed his unconditional opinion on financial reports and the business of the State Audit Office for the Ministry of the Interior. Similar opinions have been expressed both in earlier years and it is not unusual that it is not widely known that exactly 2 former Police Ministers, HDZ's government, are under investigation for malfeasance and criminal activities with the famous FIMI MEDIA, which have damaged the state budget for 10 million kuna. In addition these days, media can be heard for suspicion of similar illegal activities and the current police minister, and in the MUP everything is fine. Well, gentlemen from the office won't be able to this night. The Ministry of Defence also received a conditional opinion on financial operations and reports. Similar opinions have been expressed years ago and it is not unusual that it is not widely known that one of the former MORH ministers from the HDZ government has already been sentenced to a multi-annual prison sentence for 10 million kunas of embezzled state budget money in "the Trucks affair" and that the other recent defence minister in this ministry has left such financial and organisational chaos as to calm down and settle the situation in Afghanistan rather than in this ministry. The Taliban may also envy him in the mess he's committed. And the military flats are better off not talking. And there's nothing wrong with the morh. Well, gentlemen of the office, it won't be possible this night. A conditional opinion on financial reports and business has also been given to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure by one of the most prominent ministries in the entire government of the Republic of Croatia. Similar opinions have been expressed years ago and nothing unusual is known how many billions and billions of kunas were stolen in HAC, HC, HZ. When nothing about it knows the State Audit Office who else has the right to ask the ministry's minister how it is possible that he doesn't know anything about it, and no one has thought to ask the minister's driver. It may have been his duty to know that, but the Minister and the State Audit didn't. In addition, it is known that the minister of the ministry is a fan of cats because cats have 9 lives, and so far he has spent 8. What about this report to say when it comes from it that, apart from minor irregularities, all the wrongs in both the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is also clear in all other ministries of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Then why were Mladen Barisic and four ministers removed? Well, they, as their recent leader Ivo Sanader paintly said, probably ran off their shares, and now it's time for fresh blood to enter the race. And these weary runners deserved a little vitre until the yacht sailed to the walls of the famous fortress near the coast of Sava. Besides, who's to blame for not loving cats like the secretary of the sea, transport and infrastructure. Commercial companies – equally interesting reading is on the pages of reports describing the financial reports and business of 68 companies owned by majority or state or local units. Especially those 13 state-owned companies. All 13 jobs are almost perfectly legal. With so little imperfection, the office had to give them all a conditional opinion. They'd say people aren't straight five, but minus five. And this minus five should be an incentive to cover up the robbery next time. Man cannot take his eyes off the report, swallow in breath and admire the reading of almost impeccable business of HZ, HEP and other pearls of model Croatian economic operators. All the role model, and more directors of these companies in prisons than passengers in HZ cars. Thirdly, the other audited entities - this report said a total of 68 unconditional, 37 conditional and only 5 unfavourable opinions were already mentioned. Clearly, an unfavourable opinion has not been given to any state-owned ministry or company, and why should they, when they are generally known, operate perfectly and according to all the legal regulations until they are caught. Perfection without fault as well as their recently beloved leader Ali-baba from Longbaba. And here, in the end, a real description of this report might be given to that saying, "Out of the hunger, inside the pitiless." The State Audit Office was established and started working in 1994. The work of this office that employs 279 employees costs little less than 54 million kuna a year. From that, about 46 million kuna per year or about 13 thousand and 700 kuna per employee per month goes to the employees for salaries and other expenditures. The audits carried out during the period covered by this report have covered public funds in total since we have heard almost 178 billion and 100 million kuna. The existence of this office is therefore not questionable, but in the Republic of Croatia under HDZ rule it is now assumed that around 80 billion kunas have been stolen. And in this report, neither thief nor thief. But there's no catch. So why does the State Audit Office even exist? Why do we spend 54 million kuna a year on reports that are a classic example of a well - done party assignment? And this report is not just before the Croatian Assembly today. For years, reports of this kind have been coming to the benches of parliamentary representatives, while in them everything was going on in Croatia has been mixed with trucks and BMWs and with planes and yachts and with pictures and with expensive watches. It was being smuggled better than in Arizona, a wild drink in the Bosnian Posavina. And when we remember that during all these years, some members and families of the longest-responsible people of the State Audit Office and even those of only 20 years of age have become multimillionaires and started buying entire factories, of course, thanks to their average intelligence or innate gift of being at the right time in the right place, then the question is in itself whether it is not time for a thorough revision of the State Audit Office itself. When that is done, and it would be good to do so then the current prime minister will probably be able to get more satisfaction in front of journalists with the thesis of all the savings on connectors, toners, toilet and other paper. Because you know how much savings it would have been if there hadn't been a report like this today. We would save exactly 40,000 239 pages, 153 MPs times 263 pages. I agree with Prime Minister Kosor's view that in these difficult times, we should start saving on everything we can without. And without this kind of report, I'm sure you can. Nationals of Croatia stole this power headed by Sanader or his closest associates for almost 2/3 of the total annual state budget. The consequences of this robbery don't even talk. The most picturesque of these are seen by an army of over 334 unemployed and nearly 100,000 working people, and they don't get paid. And today's government, which is the government of the continuity of Eve Sanader, offers this army of unfortunates a rescue solution. Keeping the sheep. Is it so hungry, unemployed and poor Croatian citizens from the government? First we were sheep, so the shepherds cut our hair, and now we should be shepherds, and those who cut our hair because the sheep began to rebel seem to tire of being a shepherd. So now they'd play some wolves, scare and devour the other sheep. And in the end, is not enough all what has been done to the citizens of Croatia these past seven years of government, 7 years of disaster for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Wasn't it enough for the state to rob, to send workers to the streets, to make the pensioners dig in containers, young driven out of our villages, farmers, fishermen to make thirsty bread and meat, defenders to deliver and release at the mercy and mercy of those against whom they fought? Should we now not only be sent to guard the sheep or to act as Samaritans, but you still have the hearts of our warlords and cattlemen to call them workers and sloths. This has offended all Croatian citizens, especially us in Slavonia and Baranja. Well, gentlemen from the government won't go, since a state run by many shouldn't even be given sheep to guard, because being a shepherd is an honorable profession. And if someone gets that honor, a further career should continue as a shepherd or a samarist should be banned and brought near to the sheep so as not to steal the little rune left on them. And given what has been done to Slavonia and Baranja all these years, Slavons and Baranians still have an offer for the ruling. When you leave power to all those who do not end up in prisons, we offer the job of the superiors in our fields and fields for at least 7 years, how much it has been harassing Croatia and ruining Slavonia and Baranja so you can see what it is like to be unemployed and lazy in Slavonia and Baranja. The HDSSB club will not accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68302	I thank you very much for this inspired presentation that is indeed. I'll steal your lamb, even if I'm going to cut with you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Branko Vukelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So everything Mr. Buric said is actually incorrect, so it's hard to correct, because he wasn't talking about the review report, he read a political song that sings a lot about this assembly, but I'm still going to correct a quote that applies to the period when I was finally on the defence ministry's check, because he incorrectly claimed that the minister left financial unhappiness for 2009 so the defence ministry won't fix for long, long time. He also spoke a variety of expressions that I won't repeat. So, absolutely incorrect because Minister Vukelic did not leave in 2009 but 2010. So there's another report waiting for us for 2010, and then you'll see. If you can then read the review report because you haven't read it this time, because you haven't said anything about it. If you had read, you would have seen what the Ministry of Defense did to correct the negativity, which on the basis of the warrant and the recommendation of the internal audit in 2009, if you knew a little better system than you do not know and don't bother because you don't read, you would know that this year the Ministry of Defence entered that year without the transferred funds, that there were no more of those unplanned and unplanned funds that had been going on all these years. Therefore, Mr. Buric read the material when you talk about it in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68304	Now we're going to an individual debate. People, don't I know you're all thrilled and keep your expressions of enthusiasm to yourself anyway. And Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected state auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to say something that confuses the public, which was talked about before and by my colleague Buric, which, regardless of what the majority gives support or assesses, is a positive finding, but criticises what was found in the report, right. However, people are puzzled that often and not conditionalally but unconditionally, those ministries received those resolutions, which later emerged from the relevant police not only but also the State's Attorney's office, which confirmed even control of the indictment, so these actions or actions that took place in certain resolutions were under serious doubt criminally and now we wait only for a judicial epilogue. When you start writing about it and talking about the appointed leaders start yelling, we've had the review all right and so on. And it just confuses people. Is it possible, and that is ultimately, I think some eternal conflict between the DORH and the State Audit so far. Most often when the public begins to seek answers to such questions as simply an average person asks for answers to this question, no matter how many or less similar discussions we have conducted here and then there is a bickering between the State Audit and the State's Attorney's Office. So, as far as it's possible to identify in certain irregularities doubting criminal offences. We used to have the habit of delivering all conditional opinions or all those bodies that received a conditional opinion to the state's attorney. It is now the decision and practice of the majority to submit to the State Attorney's Office only for the decision or consideration of the work of those bodies that have received an unfavourable opinion. That was the Parliament's decision last time. We had the conclusion that all of this... , however, neither has much use for work in the State's Attorney's Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, when you get these huge papers, then it's hard for them to handle it themselves. We have one provision, a general provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure that everyone is obliged to report suspicion of a criminal offence, a team of more of those bodies who are reviewing, who are looking at certain irregularities, of course from the aspect of their work, the circle, but there should finally take a position because it is a duty. If it is the duty of an ordinary citizen, each citizen, and then every head in the body, anywhere employed, from the lowest officials and deputies, to the head, the head of the body, the team would be more obliged to specifically warn or submit a bar to the assessment, if not in the form of criminal charges but in any case on suspicion of certain criminal acts. I think that, as well as the work of the State Audit and this great effort that the State Audit is giving us annually, and here a report, I'm sure you'll get one greater valorisation because we all here do not work for each other but for the sake of the citizens, and no institution can do well and quality work without citizens' trust. So it's one closed circle that should then be established, so all of these illogicalities simply find their answer and eventually be prevented. What is seen through the revision of all state bodies, all ministries, is that they are supporting, that concessions, that they are scholarships, that they are the public procurement of Croatian society cancer and state, but also in local self-government units. Water is water, Mrs. Kosor said victoriously, but public procurement is public procurement. Thus, water would turn out to be drinking wine spills, so we're saving on water, and here millions and millions and hundreds of millions of millions of taxpayers' money is failing or being spent under the law, and as soon as it's passed by the law, it means that it's obviously abuse of greater or less meaning. For example, in the Ministry of Economy, the support register is not complete at all, there are no data on competences either. There are no data in that register on the aid granted under the incentive programme, specifically the textile industry, the leather industry, etc. So that's inadmissible. After all of those possible strategies, action plans to fight corruption where we have just seen that this kind of giving is one potential alloy of corruption and it is simply unacceptable to find these behaviors. Then, the concession fees records are not complete and do not allow for the control of the exact account of these paid and paid funds in the state budget. That's something, it's big mistakes that you really need to talk about. So it's not about some kind of failures that some of the ministries have that are really technical, but it's about a waste of funds, and then it's a serious suspicion that it's about corruption, that it's about stealing, that it's about robbery. Most of the contracts concluded do not contain a time limit for the delivery of goods or for the provision of services. Also, contractual penalties if they are in a contract and concluded at all are not respected at all. Similarly, insurance instruments for the event of non-compliance with contractual obligations shall not be activated at all. So what the European Union is always telling us, in all serious countries when the state through any ministry and its body, one agency concludes a contract with a particular person, a legal person, it is known how much this job will cost and what is the time limit of action. We still have the revolution. You never know how much this job is gonna cost, there's always some annexes, unforeseen expenses, not to mention the deadline. So the question is, would those leaders who behave like that bet on state money at home behave like that? And then you really ask a serious question about why they're acting that way. Well, I hope they're not that careless or that there's something more dangerous to hide than that. In fact, in this competition of negligence and intent it is difficult to decide which degree of guilt is stronger and more dangerous when it comes to the availability of public or general good, state money. Interesting is one information found here, or indicated, that half of some property in the total area of 2260 m2 was purchased during 2009, please for 2.5 million euros. This said property is not in use at all and significant additional resources are needed from the state budget to put it into office. Well, congratulations, congratulations on the conclusion of that contract. I think it's mature to file a criminal report directly to the State's Attorney's office. And no one can hide behind some business policy. If something is prima facie, at first glance it is illogical, then it is not because the average man is uneducated, so he cannot enter into the secrets of such a high business but simply because more serious things are hidden behind it. I'd still like to mention in the city of Zadar we have this big problem. This State Audit, I must commend this State Audit that every year she warned first of all to secure funds for paying for pools and basketball halls, that it was not taken care of. Three years in advance, she said and warned the State Audit to secure funds in the city budget because the main one is coming for payment. That didn't happen. Equally from the sale of apartments, so I also thank the audit for doing so, let me just finish the sentence and finally warn that these funds are not only used, they are not spent, but because of this the city is fat in violation, but they have been spent past the law for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68306	At 17.40, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Correction by Ms. Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68307	Here's an incorrect colleague, Ingrid, claiming she wasn't being taken care of. You should also know as a councilwoman in the city of Zadar that funds have been spent, one part of these funds that have been spent for the current needs of the 2009 budget but in accordance with the Decision amending and supplementing the decision to implement the 2009 Zadar City Budget. Not in mind, not because someone wanted to, but based on a decision made by the city council, which you are a councilman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68308	Replica, Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68309	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Anticevic, you are talking about what a review should do when it comes to knowing that there are certain irregularities that may be criminal or criminal offences. However, the revision works according to international standards and methods and the report submitted to the Croatian Assembly, i.e. representative bodies, are actually reports to the public that public money is being spent. And parliament and representative bodies in local and regional self-government should actually be the ones behind this. This is the 15 reports that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament, and in each of these discussions we have several things that are repeated. He says irregularities in public procurement, poor planning, unintended spending of funds, asset unsecuredness, and this is often repeated in almost always the same entities, audited entities. Why did we leave that good practice that we had at the end of the 1990s and early two thousand years when the government was behind every such report that was discussed giving certain reports that it was taking to resolve these irregularities. That's what we've stopped doing in the last few years, and we've actually been, in fact, showing that one progress. And when such reports become public after the debate, then the law enforcement authorities should, in fact, do what they should do under official duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68310	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68311	Well, colleagues, here's what you point out that things keep repeating, bad planning. It's a kind sentence like this, but we had a bad plan. So you have in Zadar County municipalities that missed their budget by 43, by 47%. Well, it's not bad planning, it's cheating and lying, because it's known that something can't be done. But such a common repetition, here you see now and as I agree with my colleague Marinovic. So, we're not gonna do what she found, and we're gonna get better. No, but that's how we acted against the law, we did, and we'll do it again. Because if the State Audit says you need to plan in the city budget comes for payment. They say, and my colleague Marinovic tells me but it is the City Council's decision that you are a member of, and I was against the illegal decision and we point to an anti-zaconite decision. Then, when the State Audit finds an eclectic example of breaking the law that the funds from the sale of apartments have been intended for that poor woman they steal from that poor woman and say no, it is the council's decision. But it was neither the council's decision nor the council's decision in that sense, but they lied to me and deceived me that the money had just not been spent, even though it was a sin not to spend that money because the poor are in the sub-inhabitant rooms. It's a stolen childhood for these people, because these people are like that. And when the State Audit says you spent that money, then you instead of keeping your mouth shut they're raising a correction to an incorrect quote rather than a replica. They hide behind this tile, behind a black tile, behind a gray flanco or black.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68312	As you now, colleagues Marinović, you have replicated Antičević-Marinović that, you have replicated your colleague Zgrebec, responded to the replica, and in that response to the replica, you have looked back and replicated. I'll put it together for you, don't worry, be by the crazy house. You've replicated essentially to another colleague, Marinović. I think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure you know? I think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrades Nevenka Marinović, here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68313	My colleague, I didn't say we did it and we'd do it again. I said the basis of what it was made. And you... I said the foundation of what was made, not that we did and that we would do it again. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68314	Listen up, listen up. Yeah. And another replica, Agent Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marinović Antičević said well in the opening part and I agree absolutely with you on the findings most illogically in this report, which is that they are conditional and unconditional opinions. So, without negative opinions given to all ministries and all state-owned companies. And it's generally known that tens of billions of kunas have disappeared, and there's no sign of a voice in the report. People would say the real situation in the Republic of Croatia compared to this report of the Office of State Audit really resembles an interesting episode of the series "Mad, Confused, Normal."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68316	Oh, my God! Mr. Representative Goran Maras Gordan. [[Intruder Maras: Gordan Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state auditors and associates. At the beginning of the debate, I will agree with one finding from previous discussions, that, on the basis of such a comprehensive report, we have elements and ask some institutions themselves to give us answers to elements that we think are not in accordance with the law or at least that they are suspicious and that perhaps the leaders of those bodies that are processed here have not done work only against the law, but sometimes not in the most economical and not in the best interest of those bodies that they represent. And it takes a good reading of these papers, because there's really amazing things out there that a man doesn't believe what's going on inside. I wouldn't say even if the conditional opinion was a guarantee, someone said it wasn't illegal. I see a conditional opinion in the Energy Efficiency Fund. And I see inside that report the reason why a conditional opinion was given, and I see that based on, I don't know if that or any other reports report was initiated by a certain investigation and that it is going on. So it's not a conditional opinion that excludes the guarantee that there was no illegality, but simply perhaps it's not possible to establish because there are no audits, and there are no elements to check all aspects of a job, but it warns that there were illegalities and irregularities, and then someone should check on the basis of that information what's actually happening. So in this fund, obviously here I see that it has been warned of three and a half million kunas related to certain advertising campaigns that are now being processed by the USKOK. So it doesn't mean if it's conditional that there's no illegality. And the team is more defeated than the fact that we only have 15% of unconditional opinions, and it is also a defeat to the fact that some ministries have conditional opinions year after year and that individual ministries, as Mrs Anticevic Marinovic said, are not able to even make a record of the support they have paid. So the revision can't be established by the Ministry of Economy, to which all the support is paid, because these records aren't complete. And then I, as an agent, can wonder if it was someone who wanted to hide some support, that the revision would not warn against irregularities that something had not been paid in accordance with the law. Possibly. Or the Ministry of the Sea, concessions. They are also not registered in one place, it is not possible to determine who pays, how much he pays, etc. I might wonder if someone's hiding that someone hasn't been paying for years of concessions, that's not all recorded, etc. So there are many doubts that in these conditional opinions, because both the economy and the Ministry of the Sea and Transport, the infrastructure has received conditional opinions, there are illegalities that one would have to examine. It is 180 billion kuna and the problem is, of course, in this report, I detect it the largest among public enterprises and public procurement, because in the companies analysed is the highest percentage of public procurement which, which is not obtained under the law, is even about 20% of the total public procurement. So if we take 4 billion kunas over 800 million kunas. In view of the fact that only a part of the companies is analysed, it is highly likely that this is a good sample and that they behave in the same way in other companies and that this procurement is done non-transparently in the amount of several billion kunas and that there is a huge money leak. As far as companies are concerned, here's one more thing that just a man can't believe when he reads. According to some companies, they pay in advance, and so is not agreed. Well, they're benefactors. That's where charities work in these companies. They have money, they can go out and meet entrepreneurs on the market, and pay them in advance. They're either benefactors, or there's something wrong with it. I think something's wrong. No one pays before it's contracted. Or paid early, and the contract says you pay in three months. And the reason for the competition and the choice of bidders is for anyone to make longer payments. And they pay them sooner. And someone who might have given a better price, but couldn't wait three or six months fell out of the contest. And now you're telling me again whether it might be a deal between who did the procurement and who offered the goods and whether someone might have received a fee and commission to pay the goods in advance if they didn't have to. Or, even bigger paradox, borrowed money. They gave the money without, in some cases, or that they were calculating interest, or that someone had returned the money after a certain period that was defined by the contract, or started the collection process. So these companies often also serve as banks to meet certain entrepreneurs. It all suggests, because nobody does it by accident, nor because it's good, but because it has a certain deal that hides behind such business decisions and moves. And that kind of thing should be reported to the attorney's office and seen, because in these cases, the state budget is inevitably damaged. And I'm surprised when the ministers, who read these government audit reports in these companies, and they're members of the company's assembly or the company's parliament, don't change the directors or ask them anything at all. Neither do the boards ask them anything at all when they read this report. So there's a lot I'd say non-transparentity, mugging, illegality, and certainly the State's Attorney's Office would have a lot of work to do if it were to be caught from example to example, and I think the review gave a very good basis for that. What I would say is absolutely inadmissible for the state ministries to get conditional opinions from year to year, I think anyone who tries, and faces a serious report like this can remove certain irregularities in their ministry. If I were to compare and watch a little bit, I would say that Prime Minister Kosor is not engaged in this report at all, because, for example, she replaced ministers who had unconditional opinions, Minister Suker, Minister of Culture of the former Bishop and Minister Dropulic. They had unconditional opinions. Those who keep breaking things year after year don't change things. They're even praised. Minister of Economy who is unable to record the support paid by bitches through the media in the new star of Croatian politics. I'd like the minister, yes, God, to give Prime Minister Kosor a little study of what the ministers are doing to her because this is a very good reading for that. And finally, I absolutely believe that state and ministry must be more responsible for taxpayers' money, that conditional opinion from unconditional and when a person looks at unconditional opinion is obtained when there is no significant deviation from the audit finding than what is planned on the basis of which the reports are drawn up and about 2% of the derogation. I think all the ministries in a few years that they want to do it, but obviously someone here doesn't want to do it. And I'm saying, the government and the ones most responsible don't care enough about that. What I personally think is that all reports should be analysed as representatives, citizens where we see irregularities and the possibility of illegality to submit a report and seek perhaps as a representative an answer for which, for example, in certain companies and which are individual businesses, people borrow money without interest, do not ask to return, in some way, to meet certain entrepreneurs. Believe me, there's no such benefactors and no one would do it with their money, no one. I'd like to see these people because maybe some citizen would call them and say, "Give me the money," and this guy probably won't even ask. His private money, let it be said which directors of public companies also lend to the heads of the ministries or certain bodies borrow money without interest and without asking him to return, so we will give the citizens these benefactors to lend their private money, not the money of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68318	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68319	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the State Audit Report, I would like to say that I will not support this report because I believe that the revision has made extremely serious failures in the control of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Unfortunately, the alleged blindness to the very serious doubts about the operation of this fund was not only suffered by representatives and advocates of ruling parties, as well as by Mladne's party friends and friends, ministers and state secretary and secretary and all until recently the state attorney Bajic, the entire DORH and USKOK already saw wonders of the same blindness also suffered from the State Audition. I can't defend myself with ignorance because the SDP club, but also the SDP in general so many times in the Parliament and through the media, warned of all suspicious activities in the fund that it would be really untasteful for any of the above to say that he didn't know or had any information. In addition, former Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic informed the public that most of her work day consists of reading newspapers. It must have been during such a detailed newspaper reading that it also encountered numerous texts that warned of non-transparent spending of money in the fund. I am more surprised by the report on the management of the fund according to which the fund received a conditional opinion due to the suspicious spending of money for the promotion – read FIMI MEDIA, due to the recovery of the mud from the former factory Glinica and asbestos waste from the Salonite circle, due to the illogical financing of the recovery of a series of waste dumps, which does not follow the real bad work dynamics, because of the BBC company's party friend Barbara Dešenić, who remained in debt to the millions of kuna divided by hand and cap for a project that is not and will never be realised because of the very shy imbalance of money for the management of special categories of waste with the largest part of PET packaging. Many things in the financial business of the audit fund have not been seen, but I believe that what she saw and saw was enough for a negative opinion on the fund's business. Although the audit conducts its business by controlling the business of this institution by virtue of several laws governing the operation of the fund, in this respect, the report specifically mentions the Fund Act, the Environmental Protection Act and the Energy Act, the revision ignored, without any explanation, that the operation of the fund is, in the most recent part, based on the Waste Act and the sublegal acts, which are linked to this law. The most difficult revenue part of the fund’s financial cookie is related to the implementation of the Regulation on packaging waste which requires that the fund must have a special account for the packaging waste management system and, according to the audit report, there is no such special account. It is amazing that an audit aimed at controlling the compliance of the operations of the institutions with the laws and regulations is blinded to the fact that the fund has been in breach of the regulation for years because it does not provide data on the costs of packaging waste in financial reports. In this respect, the audit of this revenue in jutura puts under revenues from administrative fees, and in the following words, I quote: "The revenues from administrative fees amounting to 1 billion 783 thousand 246 kuna are made out of fees prescribed by the Law on the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund." In the structure of administrative fee revenues, the most significant revenues are from packaging and packaging waste of 46.3%, special environmental benefits for motor-powered vehicles of 19%, CO2 and NO2 emissions charges of 11.7%, electric and electronic waste management fees of 10.5%, waste vehicle management fees of 4.9% and waste oil management fees of 3.6%. Have we heard here that the revision is called to the Waste Act and the rules for special categories of waste? No, I don't. It is precisely a scandalous failure of the audit, so there is a legitimate question of how a revision can do a quality job at all when it does not even know on the basis of which rules the operation of the fund should be controlled. It is also important that, in this case, it is not about my petty bureaucratic fission, but about the fact that in the case of the fund's income from special categories of waste, and in particular of packaging waste, it is almost 50% of all the revenues of this extremely rich fund. It is horrifying that the audit is obviously not in line with this extremely important issue of insight into the overall operation of the fund, so the report or the fund, but the audit of the fund’s operations cannot be followed at all by the packaging waste management system even though it is regulated by the Regulation. This is probably why the audit did not see this waste in the fund's expenditures taking up a share of 782 million kuna, which is almost 50% more than the revenue generated on the basis of packaging fees and packaging waste. Given that this is about finding the State Audit, which should be the highest instance for controlling the spending of budgetary and parafiscal money, we must be seriously concerned because the question is whether our state auditors and auditors are even up to the work that needs to be done. Furthermore, the revision ignores several more extremely important facts. The main idea of the packaging waste regulation was reportedly not to collect and mix with PET and other packaging, but to recover such waste from the establishment of the waste management system by this specific category of waste, the launch of green industries, the creation of green jobs and the realization of one segment of sustainable development in Croatia. Unfortunately, organized crime of the mafia, which appears to be individual and individual, and the ruling furniture, has been dragged into the waste management system. It is horrifying that the revision in its report does not deal at all with the concrete results of such a business. In its report, the audit also mentions an increase in the costs of the resolution of the so-called so-called "Agreement". black dots "are also increased costs as part of the disposal of the waste dump, the recovery of the plant Salonite in bankruptcy, the Ant-Coffee at Solin, which is carried out on the basis of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament." This is a very clumsy formulation because no recovery can be carried out on the basis of the conclusion of the Government or the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament, but on the basis of the accepted and approved plan and the recovery programme, which is not the case in the case of many black points, for example, for the rehabilitation of the Mulja from the former Glinica factory, which is currently opening a tender for the production of the plan and the recovery programme. Very logically, there is nothing, just as it is very logical for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Fund but not for the DORH, it is not disputed that asbestos waste from the Salonite, which is in the category of hazardous waste according to the top secret plan and the recovery programme that IGH has built and charged fatly as harmless municipal waste. Very logical and very legal. The audit also does not bother with the real reasons for the launch of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which is to finance projects that contribute to raising environmental standards. If the fund is doing well, it finance projects that raise environmental standards, this means that the fund's funding needs to be reduced year by year, not increased and increased. In accordance with the law established by the Fund, those projects should be financed in the economy from which the maximum fees are withdrawn. In fact, the fund needs to solve the points from which it fills itself in time and time, because in a difficult, ideal situation where environmental pollution will no longer exist, the fund will have no place to take compensation from. And that's exactly what it was, and it has to remain the primary purpose of the fund. It is absolutely unacceptable to take economic operators in the category of environmental pollutants and not to give them any opportunity to withdraw funds to address the problem. It is sad that the revision in its report did not look back on such illogically and at the core of things against the law of the fund, direct violation of the idea behind the Fund Act. This, unfortunately, means that either the revision is not up to the work that needs to be done or that it agrees that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund serves as a halo bing cow for the ruling parties of nearby companies and clients. I really don't know which of these two variants is worse for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68320	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68321	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will join the debate on the 2010 report on the work of the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office is therefore the Supreme Audit Authority responsible for the control of planning, collection, deployment, spending of public funds this year as well as for the remaining and past years in order and correct and undisputed and professionally, independently and independently audited entities in accordance with its legal powers and obligations. Opinions and recommendations have been issued on observed irregularities and failures in the business done by the audit entities, and that part of the business, the State Audit Office, in my opinion, has united in an exhaustive yet summary report which is now before us representatives in the Croatian Parliament to make a statement about it or some have said that they will not support it. I purposely pointed out that this is exhaustive and summed up because on only 263 pages of the day, the assessment of irregularities and business, 770 entities covered by the audit, and the total funds of public funds amounted to 178 billion kuna. I must point out that this report refers to business for 2009 and that business entities in which the audit has been carried out and that measures have been imposed to eliminate deficiencies and failures and that irregularities are most frequently identified that relate to the functioning of the internal control and internal audit system, accounting operations and planning, the achievement of income, the execution of expenditure and public procurement procedures. Therefore, in all cases where irregularities have been identified, orders and recommendations for their removal have been made, the Office has also given specific opinions and proposals for more rational use and public administration of public funds and also monitors the implementation of the tasks and recommendations given and requests audit entities to make written observations within 60 days on the actions taken. Most of the entities reduce the number of irregularities compared to the previous year, so the biggest reduction refers to the entities where the audit is carried out each year and of course they have had enough time now for them to miss out on which to solve these. Pointing out irregularities, failures and errors in business, and giving orders and proposals to remove them, the Office for State Audit certainly contributes to improving public property management, effective implementation of public sector obligations, increasing the responsibility of participants in the process of using public funds, ensuring the public's work, as well as informing citizens about the spending of taxpayers' money. In its report, the State Audit Office, this year as well as previous years, has repeatedly stressed the importance and role of internal audit of financial control as a comprehensive system that needs to be continuously present in the supervision of financial management in the public sector and the fact that the efficiency of financial control certainly reduces governance irregularities. It should be recalled that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted a new Strategy for the Development of the Internal Financial Control System in the public sector of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2011, which sets out priority directions for further development and a day-long emphasis on the development of financial management and control in the processes related to the budget system in particular to the planning, programming of the implementation of the financial plan, financial reporting and accounting and is an extremely significant further strengthening of the awareness of financial management as a systematic part of the management process. What I would now like to look back on, and that is what we have heard today, is that the Government is not taking enough care of public funds and state and ministry, so I would just like to remind myself of what will certainly be very important in the future, and that we here in the Parliament have passed the Law on fiscal responsibility and I think that it is very important and that this Law on fiscal responsibility will have an important impact on the rational use of public funds. Personally, I think that I think that we should all remind him of what he means, contributes to strengthening financial discipline and responsibility for the proper and transparent spending of budgets at all levels and in all users. The fiscal responsibility law, especially as regards the height and purpose of the funds, thus preventing the overestimated amount of spending and changing the purpose of their use, and we have heard that there are these shortcomings. Secondly, the law accurately provides for fiscal rules and rules to strengthen fiscal responsibility which must be followed by budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget. Third, regardless of the level of government of state and local, administration and self-government, each year is required for the previous financial year for the period during which he has acted or carried out the tasks of the head of staff to draw up a declaration of fiscal responsibility. Fourthly, the Head of the Declaration confirms that the laws will, both purposely and purposely, use the funds, enable the effective and effective functioning of the financial management system, as well as control under the budget or financial plan of the determined funds. With a statement, it should be recalled that the leaders are also obliged to contribute to the plans to remove weaknesses and irregularities, the report on the weaknesses and irregularities identified in the previous year and the opinions of internal auditors in the financial management and control system for the areas audited in the previous year. It is important to point out that in cases where a head has been found to have violated the provisions of this law, he will make his mandate available in accordance with the regulations governing his choice or appointment. So the Law on fiscal responsibility, colleagues and colleagues, was proposed by the Government, we brought here to the Croatian Parliament and it will certainly reflect on the future findings of state audits. And I'm sorry, Mr. Maras, Mrs. Nadica Jelash, who spoke against the government, that the government is doing nothing, I'm sorry you didn't support this very important fiscal responsibility law that President Jadranka Kosor said after this law in Croatia would be nothing more the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68322	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. She's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. State Auditor. In fact, when reading this great finding of the State Audit, then on the one hand it can be frustrating to see how many irregularities there are, how many ignorings there are, or how many repetitions on the one hand, and of course it can be educational, warning, or getting to know, but of course we need a conscience for that. When we talk about the most frequent irregularities in accounting business in the budget users, the same thing is further repeated, it actually refers to a list of assets and liabilities that are not of course complete on the one hand, i.e. no harmonisation of the accounting and real situation is carried out. We also see such examples in the customs administration when we see non-financial assets shown in the balance sheet in the main book in one amount, while in the analytical bookkeeping the central commission report is shown in the second amount, i.e. at 7.1% less. This could indicate mismanagement of property. Then, if we look at the analysis of the claim for customs duties and customs duties shown at the end of 2009, it is not in line with the claim presented in the latest quarterly report submitted by the customs administration at the end of February to the State Treasury. Now, the quarterly report did not include certain types of income related to claims for excise duties and other duties. And now that we compare it, I wonder if it's a credible report delivery. When the audit found that the appropriations were spent on purposes for which budget users were not planned, it was necessary to settle the expenditure incurred. We know there was a reduction in income income from income tax, so we all felt it in local units. And that is why it may be necessary to consider amendments or sublegal acts that would allow for the settlement of dedicated claims where such funds should still be allowed to be used in a non-intentional way, because I think they will support me in doing so by all those who are in executive power, in any local or regional unit. I would also like to refer to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. In terms of cost structure, we see deviations on material expenditures of even 34.4% more than the plan. So we see here an example of non-compliance with the financial plan adopted and the spending of funds significantly above planned. For example, for the recovery of 100 municipal waste dumps, one amount was paid, but according to the documentation provided when we have both the accounts and the accounting situation, a significantly lower amount of recognised works, i.e. without documentation on paid in this amount of around 45 million kuna. Therefore, the approval of funds for recovery and disposal without the documentation provided does not say whether the works are even created, whether this is a re-transmission from public pockets into private pockets. Today they also mentioned the application of the Public Procurement Act, and here we had x examples of violations, not to repeat now, we all read it. Therefore, even though the improvement was said to have come through the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, it is clearly ignored. Where are the tickets? This is more and more examples of non-compliance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. We see the most irregularity of this kind of disrespect, these are in companies and non-profit organisations, even at the state and of course at the local level. I'd like to say one more thing about the revision of companies owned by local units where you said 90% of the conditional opinions, where we see examples of illegal money management at local level, so I'm just going to point out a couple for me frustrating facts. Not all claims and obligations are not recorded for the materials supplied, no charges have been issued, no work orders have been issued. Some companies corrected the cash registers and worked new, with a jury account paid cash without, which was later actually not even registered in the register, no payments and no bills and other documents showing what money was spent on. And final. As the State Audit is said to do its job, there is and thus trying to truly demonstrate the truthfulness and credibility, to show actually check the legality of the work. On the one hand, he can learn the correctness, means work educationally, on the other hand, he is, of course, one of the links in the anti-corruption chain. When we ask ourselves why this is happening, why all these irregularities are repeated, then we can say that it is on the one hand out of ignorance, and on the other hand, from ignoring if we are repeated and deafened, then it is really ignoring, that is, a lack of political, moral responsibility, but of course there should be criminal responsibility. So, if this is one of the links to curb corruption, then what remains is the question, however, that remains? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68324	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biserka Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68325	Dear Vice President, thank you very much, colleagues and fellow MPs. We can today conclude that actually the State Audit Office is the only office of all ministries and public institutions that listens mainly to criticisms in a foreign account, not to their own. If I remember correctly all the years before, the Parliament mainly provided very positive reports on the work of the State Audit Office. However, he was very critical of those to whom the audit was made. It may be easy to understand, because the State Audit Office works by international standards, works by the Audit Law and works by internal acts that don't actually allow any different methods, even though we all here, and the public generally thinks that the State Office for Auditing and can punish someone, that they can make decisions on someone's behalf. But if we stick to those standards, then we know it's impossible. What is particularly pointed out today is that several in these 500 and some units of local self-government have been observed, several irregularities that are constantly repeated, which is a system of internal financial controls that is not set up, it is a problem of planning, the problem of the state of property and the problem of paying income and the use of expenditure. What's the problem? It might be a good idea if we Parliamentarians were a little more critical. In fact, when we make a decision about declaring a unit of local self-government, no one here wondered if these units of local self-government could really work in accordance with the law, whether they could comply with all the standards and obligations that are ahead of them, whether they had people who know how to do this and whether they were information written and qualified for the job. Absolutely never has anyone here asked if the unit of local self-government we declare to have this independence of 500 or 1000, 2000 people can really behave and meet all the needs of modern society today and meet all the laws that it must adhere to. Now this has come to our attention, because a large part of the local self-government unit actually has no ability to form an internal control system, no controllers, no trained people, and no personnel who would know how to conduct their business properly and properly in accounting and beyond. Second. As far as planning goes, we're all talking about planning. However, organised democracies have short and long-term planning that we cannot understand. We actually make choices from choice to election, and sometimes in the middle of the term of office are elections or something extraordinary is happening, so there can be practically no words about any planning. For example, you bring the budget in the 11th month for the current year, or for the next year to find out in 5 months that incomes of 1.7 are no longer accounted for in this way, but secondly. It's just that here, it's been six months. You can't plan anything for a year, not for three, not for 10 years, let alone seriously think and work on the development strategy. It is a problem that we too will have to solve, I believe, by entering the European Union where we will all actually make us really plan and stick to this plan, but that means from a small municipality to a ministry level. As for the status of the property and the general condition of the cadastre, the situation of the grantovnica is very unsettled. And it's actually one aspect of the situation in both our ministries and our municipalities and our cities. Only marked tenacity, principledness, longevity yields results. This means that you have everything written down, that you take care of your financial and non-financial assets in detail, that you record all the activities you do, that you book them all in a prescribed manner, and that requires constant tenacity, energy, certain stability in cities. That is why we can say that in cities where there is one political stability there is this financial, economic stability that can guarantee that a possible environment or ministry gets unconditional opinion or that it has a proper business. As far as payment is concerned, the irregular collection of income, the use of funds in a non-transparent way, the non-implementation of public procurement. I'd say just one thing, that for a long time we're going to fight against one of the current problems that we have, which is that the mass of the local self-government unit is operating in a way that won't be forced to pay because the elections are local, and then it's been a year, so there won't be forced payments because there are some extraordinary choices, so that's one of the reasons why the local self-government units just won't want to accept that hot potato. Maybe they don't have time, maybe they don't think it's relevant to them, maybe it's more important for them to win power, so if they think about it, then you have concerns with coalition partners and then things like this one that the leader has to take great care of fall into the last plan. Another important thing that I think would change, first we would have to have one common consensus, which we really want. Do we want our ministries to work transparently, whether we want them to be networked into a single information system, whether we want to have a really arranged state of property, and if we want to, then it will be our priority and the main task of every ministry, every county, every city and every municipality. Whoever doesn't stick to that deal will simply have to leave that post or we'll leave some criminal provisions that will force us to do so. I have no proposal for that, and I think I actually know how this should be resolved, so this time, the State Audit Office would recommend that no further proposals, opinions, advice on how some things should be better arranged, to offer perhaps some new legal solutions, all in order to improve the existing situation, speed up these procedures, simpler business and more transparent business. Maybe these suggestions, that newspaper, those improvements won't always come to fertile soil, but someone in this country will have to sit down and seriously think about it if we want to be... other European countries. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68326	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. It wasn't you? ... What passed the track quickly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My sin. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68327	Well, let's not have too much discussion, based on what you've been saying to your colleagues. It is obvious that even in the past, and today it is said that the government is not paying attention to these government audit reports. I think it's more important for the ministries to pay attention to the audit reports, not only for their behaviour or their mistakes, but for solving certain problems which then result in these audit findings. Specifically local self-government and revenue collection. We treat ourselves like a tax authority. But we don't have the right to see the tax records, either the cities, I speak now as mayor, and the closure of trades or business is not required to know whether or not the person concerned is obliged to the city or the municipality, and only after the subsequent imposition of the debt is it found that this subject no longer exists, that it doesn't work. And secondly, when it comes to the system of colleagues Hebrang and I think two years ago we agreed that obviously in the methodology of certain things that we do in certain laws we need to change so that this copy of the traps that could literally be implemented year after year in the finding of state audits are finally eliminated, because it's not about criminal organisations or criminals, in all these local units to knowingly break the laws, but also with certain circumstances that were broader in others, so I'm not going to repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68328	Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68329	Dear Mr. Vice President, the state's chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Subject report, report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2010 submitted by the State Office to the Croatian Parliament for consideration on the basis of Article 11. The State Audit Act contains information on the organisation of the State Audit Office, its employees and material working conditions, the strategic development plan, and internal audit and international cooperation. The same report shall contain data on the implementation of the 2010 work programme, as well as on the number of opinions expressed in financial reports and business in accordance with the formats and according to groups of audited entities. Therefore, revenue and revenue, expenditure, expenditure of the 2009 budget and the summary of the findings and recommendations of the audits carried out with a view to reviewing the opinions given to the users of the state budget, for the budgets of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, for the revision of covered state-owned companies, and the ownership of local self-government, for non-profit organisations, and for national parks and nature parks. The final report also contains data on audits carried out, projects financed by the European Union and other international projects. Just a few sentences about the State Audit Office itself. The State Audit Office was established in 1994, which is the basis of the 1993 law, which regulates the absolute role and importance of the State Audit Office, in the system of government and in relation to audit entities. I think it is very important to stress that the Law on State Audit, the State Audit Office and authorised state auditors are a significantly strengthened role and legal and social authority by changing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia from last year. Given the fact that provisions have been implemented in the Constitution which define the office as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia, which is completely independent and independent in its work, which we know has been before, but this situation has been strengthened by the Constitution itself. Therefore, the State Audit Office shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on State Audit, represent the Supreme Auditing Institution in the Republic of Croatia, responsible for the control, planning, collection, deployment and spending of public funds. This is what the Chief State Auditor himself said through the central office as the largest organisational unit, and 20 district offices located in the county headquarters, and 279 employees, of which 229 are therefore state auditors and should also say that we have 82% of the employees of the high professional training and other qualifications, I say the State Auditor, and I will not repeat myself. As regards the concrete activities of the State Audit Office during the reporting period, whose scope is regulated by the annual work programme, it should be stressed that they were fully implemented and carried out in 2009 and that these activities were fully in line with the action plan to combat corruption. This latest fact speaks of the office as a very important link in the anti-corruption and organised crime chain. So that's where I disagree with some of my colleagues who spoke differently. I must also say here that a part of the colleagues who have discussed, some of whom are not here today, simply do not know the matter and the role of the State Audit Office. In my personal opinion, the primary role of the State Audit Office is the advisory role and preventive role. Of course, all those cases and entities that have sinned, which are deeply about the law and who have done certain activities for some of their personal interests or for bad purposes, must in any case fear audits and the State Audit Office, because the State Audit Office will certainly report all such cases to the competent institutions, and finally this report will be made available to the competent institutions and will be made available to all interested in certain details of this report. The report of the State Audit Office shows that during the reporting period the audit covers a total of 770 entities. I will only refer to these 440 for which a financial audit has been made. Therefore, where a review of the financial reports and their overall business has been carried out. It should be said that out of 440 subjects, both President and Mr Maric spoke on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club that 68 and 15.3%, respectively, received unconditional opinion. That 371 or 83.6% received a conditional opinion while 5 subjects received an unfavourable opinion. I think that this data is talking about a positive trend, but with this situation we cannot absolutely be satisfied, but it should be noted that a mild positive trend has been observed in these findings and that there is an increasing number of irregularities that the State's revision in its work is detecting. Since I come from the space of Vukovar-Srijem County and personally represent the position that is necessary and, in a negative context, to stress, and to sanction all those who insist on irregularities as well as those who, in spite of the conditional opinions of previous years, repeat the same mistakes, but also as bright examples, need to highlight those entities with unconditional opinions because it is their only satisfaction. Allow me to mention the Vukovar-Srijem County and the town of Vinkovce among 7 counties, or 4 cities with unconditional opinions, as a light example. Noting that a financial audit has been carried out for a total of 261 local units. Te Komunalac d.o.o. Mayorja and Croatian Radio Vukovar which are located among 6 companies of 55 audited with also unconditional opinions. I think this fact is for every commendation, of course, for the Vukovar-Srijem County, for the space I come from. I also believe that this approach, therefore, will certainly contribute to the more transparent and more orderly business of most entities responsible for the use of taxpayers' funds in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, i.e. to manage them in a legal and transparent manner. I'll just say that despite the fact that there is a constant trend in reducing the number of irregularities and failures in the audited subjects, which is for every praise. However, it is important to draw attention to one worrying information that speaks about how of the total number of orders and recommendations that were in total of 2 201 during the reporting period, 1,706 or 7,7.5% refer to those addressed to local units, i.e. companies owned by local self-government units. This can be recalculated on average and for them on average, so according to one audited entity, a significantly higher number of orders and recommendations. So here I see room for additional office engagement, of course in an educational and advisory sense. Finally, while respecting that this report is really high quality, but also respecting these positive trends that I spoke about personally I will support the adoption and adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68330	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Biljić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68331	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will refer to the report, which is the conclusion of the Committee on the Local Self-Government Unit. The Committee unanimously supported this report, but it is another conclusion that has been made to this report where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposed to enable local and regional (regional) self-government units to spend their resources for other purposes. So, it gets into the Law on Community Directorates, so that's also the initiative of the Association of Cities that the Committee supported, but not for this report. So this report is only accepted with one conclusion. I wish I could boast as my colleague before me that and in my place where I come from that they are unconditional opinion, but I will commend the work of the review and immediately say that the damage beyond all this effort on these thousands of pages of well described material which you do not have the authority to file and report. Is there a lot of things you found in this audit and where it is now. The rest is for local self-government units, they have their majority in municipal councils, city or county parliaments, and they bear it and it goes into oblivion. Namely, it is the town of Nova Gradiška where you, as auditors, have established several violations of the law, mostly one of the laws where the mayor took the right to fund 5 million and 850 thousand kuna in payment to the company Industrial Park, which is 100% owned by the city, and then that same company buys the property of the city for that money. So, it becomes an innovation support centre for these 5 million and 850 thousand although by decision of the City Council and City Council of the city of Nova Gradiška Industrial Park Nova Gradiška has decided to be given to use 15 years of management with the same facility. And it wouldn't have been so bad if that price hadn't been put into some miserable $5 million and 850 grand. Namely, as chairman of the ROPA Ship-Posavina County Executive Committee, I personally worked on the project and I know from which funds were made and I know that more than 8.2 million kuna was invested in the facility. This may be one of the few jobs of the Innovation, Supporting Centres in Slavonia, which is highly equipped, even the funds gave and Bicro means there is a... centre of Croatia 5.3 million of which somewhere around a million kunas for the purchase of equipment, and the rest for lifelong learning, requalification of people in the area. So even though the mayor had no right, it had to bring in the city council that funds were going in this direction or city council that it would be sold or that a tender was already being opened or that it was already being done. The mayor took it on his own and sold it to an industrial park. And in this center where it is said that there are 10 business spaces you have equipped CNC with the most moderate CNC technology for metal processing that is not at all for production because it is too expensive equipment but for the Research Centre, for improvement, the Centre for Excellence. It costs over 2 million kunas just that equipment. Then you have a hydraulics center, pneumatics, you have cabinets, you have a simulation center that's equipped with computers. So one center where people have no idea what CNC technology is, they come to cabinets, classrooms, they get dressed in simulations, and then they just go to these expensive machines. There's everything in that center. It's a beautiful object that was released last year. And he only imagine it for that little money. Now the question is whether it was purposely done to please individuals who would buy these boxes for small money even though it is known to have invested significantly more than this. We must also say that in this audit and in this part, we have a mayor who violates the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government because he acts as a volunteer, and the legislator said that he must be a professional because units of local self-government have more than 10 thousand but there are more than 15 thousand on the last lists, over 14 thousand voters. And it's not a problem that he's just volunteers and not a professional but he owns a company that works directly for work, he's still the manager of a company called Gas Project that provides daily services to the city. So you have a document signing the mayor on one side, and then you have a gas supplier where the same man signed that he delivered himself and paid himself. But it's not that small either, but there's another company called Gas Installation where the director is 100% his property where his deputy director works for the city's needs. And I'm sure there's something in this that I said was a shame that you didn't have that opportunity after so much effort, not to punish someone, but to educate him and stop him from doing it next year. This was in 2009 the city council looked at it all, most adopted it. They'll happen to you the same way or the other way when you go to that town this year for 2010. So you'll see what else he's been doing this year. I support this report, but I say it's a shame that it just stays there. Do we know that all units of local self-government that mayors or mayors or mayors in most cases have a majority in representative bodies. And then they vote it and then it just goes away into oblivion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68332	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Chief State Auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will probably argue slightly differently from the discussions that have been so far, because this kind of debate on the state audit report and the debate when a budget is usually used for political bickering. However, I think that the debate should also be used for something else when adopting the budget and also for the State Audit report. One part of the time can be used for political bickering, but I think that first of all this report should serve us whether we are well regulated and that we have all asked ourselves here today, should perhaps some laws in the Republic of Croatia be changed for a simple reason that those who spend taxpayers' money may be able to do some things easier and simpler. And secondly, have any of the laws we've passed achieved the results we wanted? Why am I saying that? So I'm talking for the simple reason that first of all I'm going to do a little digression before I start speaking, I think this report should, and this today has shown the debate to separate the state from local self-government. Why? For the simple reason you say you've done 444 controls and you have 60 unconditional opinions, then that percentage looks awfully small. However, when you single out the state section so when you see that out of the 25 audited ministries or users of the state budget, 12 of them have unconditional opinion then that percentage is 48%. When out of 261 units of local self-government, only 11 have unconditional opinions, then it falls to a very low percentage of 4%. And he's automatically asking us another question that I'm going to say that, and as while I was a minister, I had some problems when we started an Internet-control project, internal control and internal audit. So, at the beginning of that job, the biggest problem was to convince some of the heads of state institutions, as well as units of local self-government that these are systems that go in favour of them, which will help them create as little irregularity as possible. And that they've made some kind of irregularities to remove them. And where internal control and audit systems have functioned there and the state audit has a easier job. We also need to be aware that we cannot simply compare the year with the year, is the state's review of how we are making legislative progress, how people are educated in state institutions as well as in the institutions of local self-government units doing better, and the State's revision changes the methodology of its control. So some things simply impossible to statically compare. However, what, with reasons for the adoption of the budget, this report should serve to simply answer Croatian citizens why we spend taxpayers' money. Is it more important for us to have a programming principle and a location where that money is spent on some useless cost forgive me for the expression, whether toilet paper has been spent anywhere for 500 or 1,000 kuna? And I think that's a fundamental question that we all have to ask ourselves for the simple reason that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia sees how much money from what he's paid tax has come to a place where it's interestingly finished, and that's local spending of money. You know what it's going to lead to? Honestly, we were in the ministry trying, and I think that we have legislatively come to the fact that this programme principle of money spending has come to a very high stage, it will force budget users at both national and local level to reroute as much money towards programmes as possible, and to commit themselves to more savings for a simple reason, you are as successful as you implement the programme. And when we start to monitor the spending of money that way, I think we'll discuss it differently, the State's audit will have one completely different report again, and it's incorrect that nothing was done on the audit. The State Attorney's Office is orderly from the budget users who received a conditional opinion last year where the State Audit established a certain reserve to say so according to certain expenditures to the state, the DORH has requested clarification of what is going on, and therefore this is the information. However, when we talk about the revision, then I think we are too little to forget what the European Union is asking us to do when giving money to the EU funds. So he asks that people who work on programming and bargaining have higher wages, to be well paid. See what happens in some new members of the European Union where money from the European Union funds is spent, where... to England that money should be paid back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we just all have to become aware of one fact, and we can argue here as politically as much as we want, but if we're not ready to spend money based on the legal rules we have, we're going to have a lot of inconvenience. Let's not be fooled that those 3 billion and 600 European funds will just give us that. And I think that all that has been done over the past years, so also what the State Audit has done and what internal control and internal audit have done, which has been doing budgetary surveillance, let's not forget that this is one instrument of the Ministry of Finance to control only certain costs as provided for in the Fiscal Responsibility Act where the Ministry of Finance will be able to control practically one account if it suspects that something is wrong with the payment. But now we have to go back to that political note. Unfortunately, for us irregularity is not an irregularity but a matter of who did it, and that is what we simply have to solve if we want to be responsible politicians. Irregularity is an irregularity no matter who did it, and that's the problem with local self-government units. You have budget surveillance where certain mayors, mayors, are in charge of the bill, have not received consent from the Ministry of Finance, have entrusted units of local self-government above all possibilities and no one at all. It's standing and hanging in the air. Those who suffer, suffer the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If there are sanctions, there are no sanctions. So we're dealing with hard words, criminal acts, accusations, these, those, those, I'm talking about companies. Look, companies are not only audited by state audits of these companies owned by the state, 15th, and audited by commercial audits. Therefore, both audits can change something. Is tomorrow based on the change in statistics one new part of the companies will remain in a consolidated balance sheet, in the state will not, and that is the question. The question is which of these companies will at all be more controlled by the State Audit because if they operate on the market, if they are not monopolies, then they are controlled by some very different laws. However, when we need to throw it back into the same basket with some small municipality just because we can charge a political opponent. So if I don't owe it because I'm the last one, that's a long time gone, I'm sure I'll support this report, and I think anyone who's worried about what his State Audit report will be like will be very supportive of this effort that the state auditors have made. I think the message from this debate and the conclusion should be that all local self-government leaders who do not have an internal audit and control should form because it is for the good of them and will have fewer irregularities and fewer inconveniences, and for us in the Parliament to get less bickering and to watch more things the way they are because you've had a lot of opportunities to hear here today. People come with written speeches and then talk about something they don't even know about that the State Audit hasn't done its job. Sometimes on paper everything looks beautiful and wonderful, but behind the back it's quite different, and it can't be seen in the find of the State Audit. So I support this report which is good, but I say in the future because of some more realistic insight of things I think you should separate the report from local units and the state so that the state can be viewed as something unique, that it can also be said more clearly to individual ministers or state secretaries who are headed by the agency that something is not good and that it repeats so much and so much. However, we must also be aware of the fact that many ministries have received a conditional opinion because of things they simply cannot do. Let's just say we're sorting out the property. The situation in land books is such that it's simply impossible to do certain things. So I think that progress is obvious, that it is seen from the State Audit report year by year, that it is a joint effort and people who care about budget money and the State Audit, and I think that this job should be seen as such, and that we as Assembly representatives should base this report, if we think that some things about the law are not good we propose amending the law and that the next report should be better and ultimately give us answers to those questions that are raised in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68334	Thank you. And final review, chief state auditor Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68335	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored MPs and MPs. Let me try to answer the honourable representative, unfortunately I don't see him here, but I'm going to answer the question, and he's asked what's really going on and what happened with our reports and who we delivered them to and if we delivered them. I must stress here that we have all of our reports, all of our reports delivered to this High House, and then to the State's Attorney's office. And all those reports for those audit entities that got an unfavourable opinion we immediately delivered to the State's Attorney's office. I must also point out that one respected representative tried to think about whether there was a conflict between the State Audit and the State's Attorney's Office. There is no conflict between the State Audit and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. We, together with them and other institutions, handled about 113 cases. So that's exactly what the evidence is for. I also need to point out one thing that we all need to understand. The State Audit Office is not a repressive body. We don't have the ability to sanction, and it has to be understood. That's the essential question. Next, let me also say one more thing. The State Audit Office is a participant of an action plan to combat corruption. So, you can't say, and I've heard that claim that nothing's happening. We're doing our job, that's a fact. And I'd also like to introduce you to one thing that's also important. The State Audit of the Republic of Croatia is controlled every year by the institutions of the European Commission, which is SIGMA and GRECO. The estimates the State Audit gets from these institutions are not good but almost the highest, so that means something, too. Please allow me to finally thank all of you for the useful suggestions and comments related to the findings and recommendations of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. Together with my associates, I will consider all these proposals, we will try to install them in our future work, we will try to raise the quality of this work, and we will make the reports, that our reporting to the Croatian public will be even more quality. And finally, let me as chief state auditor of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Office thank you all and the general public for the attention you have shown us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68336	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Bill on Amendments to the Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-16-0.u68337	Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2010 and the report on the audits carried out in particular. Proposer: State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2010 and the audit reports shall be adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 95 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 3 against. And two. The 2010 audit report on the specific part is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report has been accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 4 against. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the following conclusion: It is proposed to allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by means of an appropriate act, local and regional (regional) self-government units to make exceptional use of laws and sub-legislative acts which are prescribed exclusively for the purpose of the use of non-taxable income of those units, such revenue may also be used for other purposes of their self-government, provided that it does not question the carrying out of the activity financed from these revenues. So that's the committee's proposal. Let's please get involved and vote on the committee's proposal. Did we have any evidence here? We didn't have any obviouss. Please make yourself known about the Committee's proposal. The result? This proposal has not been accepted, for 35, nothing abstentions and 67 against.
