ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66273	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club because of the situation in the City of Zagreb. Because of the situation in the City of Zagreb and the country I am asking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66274	Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66275	On behalf of the club, we're also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66276	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66277	On behalf of the club, we're also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66278	Is it the same reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66279	Same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66280	Because, look, it says in the Rules of Procedure that a club representative is obliged to say why he wants a break. You can't come to the Parliament now, so tell me I'm asking for a break. Well, there's something to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66281	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66282	You said it. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66283	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community to explain that there is a good situation in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66284	Okay. We're continuing the session at 15 to 10, not to waste a lot of time, 15 to 10, 10 minutes is quite enough because I don't think the debate is going to start now. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic is the club president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66286	President-in-Office, honourable MPs and MPs before we are president of the HDZ Club Dr. Andrija Hebrang's report on what the Prime Minister spoke to the Vice President of the European Commission yesterday, and for God's sake today at 12 o'clock, I'd like to say a few words to you. As serious as the situation is, the government led by the Prime Minister is inconclusive. That's the greatest seriousness of this situation. Croatia has had more serious moments and difficult moments and many. And that's what you and all of us remember very well. But this moment is unique in the fact that seriousness turns into an extremely irresponsible indemnity of power. Yesterday we asked here, asked, pleaded for the Prime Minister to come to the Parliament and for a short half hour, an hour, to report this body of rude insinuations and accusations brought by its messenger to the expense of the opposition parties. I will repeat once again, he has accused the opposition parties of funding and organising violence and against themselves. Let us not forget that in this House less than half a year ago, during a discussion of the government's mistrust, one of the champions of this House said that SDP was a party that could come under the influence of the law. That's all the stuff that needs to be put in the mosaic. And as the president of the HDZ Club says, I'm not accusing but I wonder what the truth is. So the Prime Minister ignores this House's request on the second day. We're still representing some people here like you. I speak here today on behalf of the SDP, on behalf of the HNS, on behalf of the IDS and on behalf of the HSU; the four parties of the Kastavska or the "Kukuriku coalition". And we're not going to stop talking and insist until the Prime Minister who escaped shows up and explains what's going on, who's behind the charges and how he's going to solve this situation. We said the election. Yes, the election. No one is asking for the handover of power, but democratic elections. Yes, the authorities can insist on legality until the last day of the constitutional term. We know there's legitimacy, we know there's a reputation, trust, it's irrevocable today. And that is why we ask that the prime minister and president of the HDZ address this House, to explain the heavy accusations of opposition, criminal charges, serious crimes and to announce when elections will be held. So we didn't even say a choice yesterday because it's not possible in a democratic state. This isn't Libya. But when does he vote? That's what the Prime Minister has to say. When's the election? That's how it reduces the tension because this is an election year. Of course, everyone reasonable in this country, from us in the Parliament to those who went to the streets and those who joined them at the dark hour of the night, expect this tension to calm down and the Prime Minister to say when the elections will be. But not in February of next year, not in the 12th month of this year, because it is not realistic for colleagues and colleagues, given the schedule of events that we ourselves have drawn. Because it's simply not possible to achieve this if you're going to wait for a referendum. Negotiations need to be concluded, we agree on that. And I talked about it the other day with the Enlargement Commissioner. That's what I can say because I see him saying it today in an interview. And I know as well as all of you who are dealing with what is dynamic by the end of the year and what is possible and what is not possible. Croatia cannot wait almost a year until parliamentary elections, do you not understand? No one asks for any capitulation but only a reasonable announcement, and it can only be given by the leader of the ruling or first person of the ruling coalition when there will be elections. And we say within a reasonable period, as soon as possible. What doesn't mean today, doesn't mean immediately, doesn't have to mean in a month because elections need to be prepared, negotiations need to be concluded, but within a very reasonable time. The ball is on the side of Mrs. Kosor's desk, she has to say it. And we need to finish this job together, and negotiations and a referendum and Croatia's entry into the EU. How the government started and how it has been working for months in favour of Croatian damage all the time. For rational and less rational reasons, people will see the EU as a problem and as an enemy more and more. It is up to us not to allow this to happen and that we personally both in this Parliament and in the public and through the parties and through the media are committed to the process of Croatia's EU accession and to join the EU and to make the support of Croatian citizens and citizens great. What is currently happening leads in the opposite direction. People are unhappy, frustrated, angry. Some people use the situation to make things happen and they'll still use it, and we colleagues and colleagues have a lot of flags. Our flags will fly. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66287	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. So I remind all the representatives and clubs that we had an extended session of the Bureau and that we brought some actually unanimous views there. This is not only for Mr Buric's sake, but for all those who participate in this or some other debates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66288	I don't know what this remark is about, but good. Dear Mr. President, here is after I heard the opening statement and the statement of the esteemed colleague Hebrang really needs to be blind or HDZ, so don't see what's going on in Croatia. Nothing is the same in Croatia as it was. The time has come for things to start calling themselves a real name, pop pop, and a bobbo. Today, the waves of protests flooded Croatia. They are not the result of the desire to relax Croatian citizens, but the result of their misery, despair and bitterness. Croatia is today at the beginning of all economic indicators in global scale. We are classified if you remember the rank with the South African Republic, Kazakhstan and Botswana. The head of the Croatian state in the last 7 years has been HDZ. He brought us here where we are today. Croatian citizens have had enough of this HDZ government that robbed the state, the state and its citizens into debt slavery and on the edge of bankruptcy, on the street without a job drove nearly 335 thousand citizens away, allowed almost 100,000 people to work, but without pay. The people are fed up with the authorities who have issued a warrant outside for persecution and sale of their defenders, the authority that made the pensioners diggers into containers, enough of the government that stole the future from the young. The people are sick and tired of prime ministers who don't say anything when they talk, and when they say something, they'd be better off not talking. Especially a prime minister who's certainly lost her compass and is increasingly like Alice from a wonderland, and she's always surprised that all these people are on the streets. She's been giving her last few days of statements like she's fallen from Mars. The people are hungry and desperate, and the prime minister claims that Croatia is more relaxed. The army of unemployed and it as a Croatian new deal offers sheep-guarding jobs, and that after they've cut us all like sheep, they cut our skins and skins, so there's no more sheep or money. Fuel prices are flying to the sky, and she's calmly saying it's not her concern because she doesn't even care about her tank fuel, but her driver, so I guess the answer to the question is, who's to blame for giving her driver, because we can't even think about it, we know what his answer would be. The food prices are going to go up in a dizzy fashion, and the prime minister is making us stupid that the food didn't add up, but it's only the adjusted price, even if it's 50% to 60% up, but who cares about it, it's important that it's not called the addition, it's a price correction. Croatian defenders complained that Croatian authorities sold them and betrayed them, and she mocked them for giving them pensions, I guess from her pocket of what was left when she didn't have to pay for the apartment, so I guess she bought them that way. And now the defenders are her property, so she as their owner can do whatever she wants and sell them. And then a Croatian cowboy pops up in Wyatt Karamarko's chair and starts counting Croatian Indians and instructs the police to steal from the people when she hasn't already defended the people from the thieves. These days, in the Croatian public, a heated debate is being held about who is behind more and more frequent and more mass protests, the government points to the opposition, the opposition denies it. And the bitter Croatian citizens are tormented by each other. They've had enough politicians and political parties and political outsmarts. For the state of Croatia, the most responsible is HDZ's hair, which is not too much to be spent on, but for the state of the country the blame lies with both the senseless and undecided opposition, especially the one who today calls himself the Kukriku coalition. Don't start roaring again. The bitter, unemployed and impoverished Croatian citizens look down on both the hair and our opposition. This government doesn't need to look for culprits in protests anywhere else, just read a few inscriptions from banners of increasing numbers of protesters. You thieves stole our future. Jaco's leaving. Our government is a handful of misery. We're not sheep, give us back the money. Stronger for Gaddafi's camel, he can have a single. Is that what the Prime Minister needs? The best and safest for both the prime minister and her ministers, and for the entire HDZ summit, is to pack their own suitcases, invite the police to turn over the columns of the martice parked in Mrk Square to the Banski dvors, rush everyone inside and safely drive to your favorite resort to Remetinec. Go and rest, you've earned and there you've held an extraordinary HDZ Council with Go, Jaco, Gou. And before that, you'll have to call a new election immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66289	This pay phone doesn't point to jail, but it knows what kind of procedure is in an orderly and legal state when someone needs to end up there. And so again, here's why I had to warn in advance. I once again warn MPs and MPs not to turn into any prosecutors, state attorneys, police officers, even less and to keep this House's dignity at the level of what its main constitutional and legal role is, and it is not a reference to detention among other things. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. President of the club Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66290	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. To respond to a serious and serious request from the president of the SDP, of course I will not respond to the written speech of a frustrated HDSSB colleague because that hate speech speaks of both the author and the actor who read it. You really don't need to talk about it anymore. However, the requirement to set the election deadline is a legitimate request for opposition. We will repeat our position on this and repeat why we believe that the situation in the City of Zagreb is good today. I think the situation in the City of Zagreb is excellent today because we are currently meeting our guests, 55 representatives of the European Parliament from the strongest party, the leading party of the European Parliament is today in the City of Zagreb. Today, Mrs. Reading is here, today in the City of Zagreb is the president of the club of the largest parliamentary party. So today we have been honored by those whose society we want to go to. And that's why I think the situation is good. Can I help you? And that is why I think the situation in the City of Zagreb is good, because the main political strategic direction of the current coalition, which is headed by the HDZ, is the conclusion of the negotiations and the definitive departure from the Balkan pub, the definitive departure to a European civilization where Croatia should be where it belongs and where we in our party have outlined as the only party since 1989 in our first programme a free independent Croatian member of the European Community. And now that we're at the finish line, now that we're already at the finish line, we can really say when there's going to be elections. Of course, we'll appreciate what Hannes Swoboda said, don't call the election before you finish negotiations, because we won't have anyone to negotiate with, you'll deal with your choices. But we will take what he said in yesterday's interview, not at the same time elections and a referendum to join the EU because you will re-separate your main strategic goal. We will neither fail two days ago to give up the position of the European Commission which praised our negotiations and left an open deadline for June, has categorically established it, because as they have said they never determine. We will also take into account the position of the President of Hungary, who expressed her praise about the position of the European Commission in relation to our negotiations and also encouraged us, go along the way, finish the negotiations, Europe wants Croatia in its care. Well, you see, in that sense, we also accept your suggestion that elections be within a reasonable time. The reasonable deadline is the deadline after the negotiations are concluded and the deadline depends large and largely on us, but also on the opposition, depending on the entire Croatian public, on the entire Croatian political public. And I call you again, the elections were a month sooner or later, it's not as important as if they were after the negotiations were over. Let's go to the conclusion of the negotiations hand-in-hand to shorten Croatia and this final torment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66291	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66292	Comrade Hebrang, it is not true that the situation in Zagreb and Croatia is well. Comrade Hebrang, don't underestimate the situation we're in. Comrade Hebrang, don't underestimate the strength of an empty stomach.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66293	So this is a classic correction of opinion. Mr. Representative, correction also, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66294	Hello, hello. I am also correcting Mr Hebrang's incorrect allegations that the situation in Zagreb is good today. It is not good in either Zagreb or Croatia, and the elections were scheduled the day the captain left with a little vitre. And every new day when elections are not discussed is the day of agony for Croatia. With Slavonia singing, the Slavons are still alive. Thank you very much. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66295	Also a correction of opinion, not a correction of an incorrect quote. That means next time. Third, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, correction. And Dinko Buric, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66296	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, I will correct Mr. Hebrang's incorrect claim. It's not true, Mr. Hebrang, that the situation is so idyllic as you showed it, but after what you said, I have to say that there's a lot of truth and in what I see in one of the banners, it says, "You're lying about who Hebrang, you're telling the truth, you're gunning like Karamarko, you remember who Shakespeare, you're capable and relaxed as Kosorica, you're stealing who Sanader, and you're honest as HDZ. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66297	It is not also a correction but a debate because no one has mentioned, and especially Mr Hebrang none of these mentioned here, so this is the third time yes, we have discussed it at the extended Presidency what we are going to do about correcting incorrect allegations, what we are going to do with the replicas, what we are going to do with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure because if we are going to be able to keep our hands up, no one should be held accountable but told everyone what they want. I think it's about time we all thought about at least for another council, this next assembly of Parliament, we'll fix the Rules of Procedure a little bit. And as a last correction, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66298	Hebrang says the situation in Zagreb is good. The situation, as my predecessors have said, is catastrophic in both Zagreb and Croatia. People are desperate, people are angry, people are angry, people are cheated, people are stolen. All countries gentlemen in the Croatian environment have come out of crisis. One Hungary, one Serbia, one Slovenia, one Poland, and not to count further. And you give me an answer that the government, which would have kept the government if its former prime minister had been in prison, if the Deputy Prime Minister had been convicted, that several ministers of that internal affairs had been further convicted. Come on, gentlemen, look around and let's not fool ourselves. What happens on Zagreb's streets is just the beginning of what tomorrow will be the mother of all protests, it will be elections. And give me a look and don't insult people who get together, they're people of 14, 15, 16, and they're mothers with children, they're old people, they're people of 50.../The speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66299	Thank you. ... Oh, thank you very much. Don't go any further. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, it's been a while since the classic incorrect lifting of a plate of incorrect allegations because you entered a political debate and has nothing to do with correcting an incorrect quote and you can't discuss it further because it's already past your time anyway. Thank you very much. Come on, please, as you expect from the chairman in general, that we here each day argue, to speak, we warn the same as not to say anything and then we are responsible for holding a session. We're all responsible. I agree that the one who presides on being the most responsible, but if so, here are four corrections that were not correcters but were expressed political opinions, and that does not fall under the correct assumption. It says there which is the correcting of an incorrect quote. I have asked you many times, and others, to quote what you are correcting. You said that and you said that, and I'm saying it's not like that and I'm correcting that incorrect assumption of yours. Then it would be something like this, saying whatever it is you want. Please, let's change Rules of Procedure. ... The situation in Zagreb is as it is and it will be discussed in accordance with our law and the Rules of Procedure when the time comes in the procedure provided for. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, in the procedure that's scheduled, we can't change it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] None of us have the right to do that. Please nice, come on, help. I'm asking you to help, not get away at any moment. Thank you very much. What we heard today will also be reported to the Prime Minister as we did yesterday. ... What do you want us to do? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66300	To let us know 15 minutes early. That would be fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u66301	That he'll be here? And I can ask that. [[Intruder: Yes.]] We're continuing the session on the agenda. Thank you. Still, we're doing it civilizedly together, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69951	We continue with the afternoon session of the Croatian Parliament with the point - Final proposal of the Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 710 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The government has submitted amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, MP Zvonimir Mršić, joint clubs of representatives of national minorities of the SDSS, MP Ratko Gajica, representative Tanja Vrbat, representative Emil Tomljanović and the Club of HNS-HSU representatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69952	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a proposal for a final law on the police. There is a law currently in force that regulates the police issue. Namely, the Police Act was published in "The People's News" 129.2000. and it has been applicable since 1 January 2001 and the amendments to that 2008 law have been regulated areas of police organisations, police affairs and powers and the work-legal position of police officers. The adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Act also gave rise to the need to regulate the police's conduct in cases governed by the Criminal Procedure Act in an appropriate manner in accordance with that Criminal Procedure Act and therefore is in the "National Journal" 76/2009. The new Law on police business powers has been published and is applicable since 1 July 2009. The publication of this, i.e. by the adoption of that law, ceased to apply the provisions of Articles 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10 and 16 to 78. The police law relating to the area of police affairs and powers remains in force under the provisions of the law governing the organisation of the police and the working-law position of police officers. As a result, these issues should be properly addressed, so Article 1 of the Law and it is prescribed that the law regulates the basics of the police organisation and the specificity of the employment position of police officers in the Ministry of the Interior. Meanwhile, since the adoption of this Law on Police in 2001, many legislative changes have taken place, and a new Law on civil servants and tenants has been passed. The Ministry of the Interior has also done a number of normative but operational activities in order to adopt the EU Directives and acquis and this has also resulted in the closure of Chapter 24. In 2008, a twinning project was launched in collaboration with European twinning partners as part of strengthening the human potential management system, education and training systems of the MUP and a strategy for reforming the human resources management system for the Ministry of the Interior for the period 2009 to 2011. All of this was the reason for the adoption of a new law which, in a unique, modern way and in a manner consistent with the practice of European countries, will regulate this issue of police organisation and the working-law status of police officers. Some issues of the working-legal position of police officers need to be prescribed in a different way in accordance with both directives and practices, but also with those experiences that we have come through the implementation of the twinning project. I'm only going to say the most important normative definitions of this Police Act's proposal. The Police Officer's Bill's proposal defines a police officer as a police officer under the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and an official of the Ministry who performs tasks closely related to police affairs. We must immediately clarify that there are police officers in the Ministry of the Interior who apply the tasks and powers of the Law on Police Business Powers, but there are also police officers who do not apply daily but do other jobs that are closely related to police affairs, but do not directly apply them in their daily work. According to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, the police officer is an official of the ministry as well as an official of the foreign police service that performs police affairs and applies police powers. The provision of Article 5 of the Law introduces the Institute of Civil Control in the process of resolving complaints against natural and legal persons in the second instance. This provided a normative opportunity for natural and legal persons who are dissatisfied with the police's actions to be given a two-stage procedure by including persons from the civil sector appointed by the interior minister in the resolution in the second instance. And it's certainly a newspaper compared to the current state. The Police Law proposal regulates the basics of the Police Organization by prescribing the unique organisation of the Police at 3 hierarchical levels - Police Directorate, Police Administration and Police Stations. The provision of Article 14 of the bill lays the basis for the establishment of the Reserve Police, which is also a novelty in relation to the existing situation. And since that question was not normably, there was a need to regulate it too. The bill prescribes the rights and duties of police officers. Namely, one of the main objectives of this law was to regulate police work as a career, professional service in which this job will be pre-known as a professional job in which all those who enter the Ministry of the Interior will be able to develop according to their ability to train, their education, their development through the titles and the basis of this will also take up certain positions in the MUP. Thus, Article 15 of the Declaration sets out the right to equality in the exercise of the rights laid down in this law, which is very important to make it clear that every job is accessible to any police officer who meets the legal requirements for that position as a police officer. The right to professional development in the police service through continuous education, improvement, and progress is regulated in Article 16 shall be governed by the right to the benefited internship, the insurance of Article 17 and the specificities of a police officer’s post, which shall increase the way in which such staff is recognised for a year by those staff members, insurance for 14 to 18 months depending on the complexity, liability and risk of work. Then the right to information on job vacancies as well as the possibility of police education Article 18 is prescribed. The right of members of the police officer's family to do police work or to do police work to lose their lives and the right to spend their lives, then the right to one-time assistance for police officers who suffer a reduction or complete loss of employment due to activities related to police work, the right to psychological assistance. For the purpose of professionalising and further depoliticalising police services, the draft law introduces a ban on membership in political parties, political action in the ministry and running for state and local elections for police officers. As a significant newspaper, it is proposed to classify the jobs of police officers in Article 43 of the Bill's proposal into three basic categories, including the jobs of leading police officers, including planning, organising, managing and overseeing police work processes, as well as guidance and coordination and supervision of police officers, as well as the jobs of senior and lower police officers directly involved in police and closely related activities. Since the categorization of police officers' posts is also required, the conditions under which a certain police officer can be appointed to the jobs of leading police officers, senior and lower. It is prescribed for the Director-General of Police to have a person who has at least 15 years of working experience in performing police duties of at least 10 years at the workplace of a police officer or laid down or obtained a personal police call from a chief police adviser. The Director-General is scheduled to appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister. For police officers, and for deputy and assistant chief director, police chiefs and police station chiefs, it is prescribed by filling these places by advertising through an internal ad, and the selection of candidates would be carried out by the commission. The elected candidates, these multi-manufactured police officers, are named for a period of 5 years, the same as the Director of Police. Furthermore, a new police calling system is proposed. Instead of the 10 so far, 12 police calls are predicted. Since in every way the police department wants to arrange as a career service, we believe that 10 police calls are not enough to cover the entire working life of a police officer in such a way that it can continuously develop and advance in accordance with the results that it achieves without stagnation in certain titles, as has been the case so far because there has been insufficiently prescribed police calls that would allow the regular advancement of police officers who have been perfected, educated, educated, educated, and simply the need to be more police calls than ever. This way of appointment and resolution of executive police officers and senior officers is also proposed, but since we have done this categorization, it was also necessary to regulate in an appropriate precise way the deployment, transfer, appointment and resolution institutes and it was just done with one whole head where these institutes can be regulated in a clear and precise manner, given the different situations where a police officer can be found during his professional career. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. Article 85 of regular high school education is also foreseen, starting next year if this law is adopted in this form. The area of disciplinary responsibility of police officers and the disciplinary trial shall also be detailed, and responsibility shall be prescribed for the damage done in the performance of the police service as well as the case in which, other than those established rules on civil servants, the police officer ceases his service under the law. I repeat this again is a law which, in one consistent way, regulates the practice of European countries' primary police organisations and regulates police work as a career service in which professionalism really will rule and in which all those who enter this system under pre-known rules will be able to calculate that they will be able to achieve their career according to the results they achieve. Just for the end of the day, why the law was sent to the emergency procedure. Namely, I said Chapter 24, which I would have said was the MIP's parent chapter closed, but in Chapter 23, a recommendation appeared to be good for meeting the criteria and to close Chapter 23 to adopt a Police Act to regulate the police service in a way that ensures maximum professionalisation and competence. As a result, it was proposed that this Police Act be adopted by emergency procedure so that there would be no obstacle to the closure of Chapter 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69953	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojic on behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69954	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 61st session held on 24 February 2011 discussed the draft law on police, with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 10 February 2011. Article 63 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. Introductoryly, part of the MPs voiced their opposition to the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. The proposal for a law does not bear the P.Z.E. mark, and the urgency of the procedure is not even justified by the reasons for compliance with the European Union or in accordance with Article 160. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are already an urgency explained by other particularly justified reasons for Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In addition, part of the board noted that it does not appear to be one of the closure criteria for Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights because the objections were related to the implementation of the measures and regulations adopted. Also, in the very proposal for a law when systematically analysed, it is evident that there are no important newspapers that would lead to professionalisation and depolitisation of police because the law on police and other regulations so far has been resolved. The proposer pointed out that this was a European Union request, namely that on 7 January, a request from the European Union had arrived to arrange the police as a career service by 27 January this year. Therefore, law-making has been joined to regulate the police department in a given way with clear criteria for progress and to further professionalise and depoliticise the police. In the opening part of the proposal, the applicant stated that, in addition to his request from the European Union, there was also coordination with the Criminal Procedure Act and the Civil Service Act, noting that trade unions participated in the composition of the text. The promoter also noted that this proposal makes the difference between police officers and civil servants, that civil oversight is being introduced in the interior ministry, ensuring the right to professional development. The internal tender shall publish vacancies to ensure the availability of these jobs to the highest quality police officers and shall define the rights in the event of a loss, burial and one-time cash assistance, etc. The promoter also pointed out that the Regulation on the classification of criteria for the establishment of the jobs of police officers is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and subsequently, the Minister of Interior would have to lay down rules and arrangements for the distribution of jobs, responsibility between different services in the ministry involved in the management of human potentials. It is therefore pointed out that there are great tasks and jobs ahead of the MUP because of the new structure, the creation of a series of sublegal acts and new appointments and the release of new schedule solutions. In line with the new calls from the bill, three categories of jobs developed in 12 police calls have been introduced and will have to issue new solutions for all police officers, which is a multi-month job. In principle, opposing views were presented. Part of the Committee considers that it is obvious that it is a law that is important for the closure of Chapter 23. Namely, the proposed law resolves the working status of police officers, respecting all specificities of the service, which will surely lead to professionalisation and depolitisation of police. On the other hand, part of the committee members made a series of principles and individual remarks stating that it is not good that such an important law is passed by emergency procedure because of the impulse of the arrival from the European Union, because we must first of all pass the laws for the sake of Croatian citizens. It has been pointed out that more than 60 individual objections could be made to the bill by representatives of police associations, police unions and civil associations, but because of the number of objections, only the most significant ones have been indicated. Comments have been made to the appointment of the chiefs of police administrations in whose proceedings the units of local self-government have participated so far by giving their opinion. This opinion was not binding, but made it possible to declare the candidates and the new solution is certainly not progress related to Chapter 23, which was no longer binding. In addition, he said that the proposal proposed a new way of appointing the principal through a tender is not correct because so far the principal director has been elected through a public tender. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law also took a step contrary to Chapter 23 because the provisions on the duties of police officers relating to the protection of personal data that existed were abandoned and the question referred to in a satisfactory manner was resolved by the Data Protection Act and the Data Securitisation Act. As regards the disciplinary procedure, the argument was made that the proceedings were subject to malpractice and it is inadmissible that the disciplinary court was not legally bound by the judgment of the criminal court. In fact, we have cases where the Supreme Court makes a liberating verdict that a person has not received 100 kuna bribes, and the disciplinary court adopts the exact opposite position. Comments have been made to Article 38, which prohibits police officers from joining political parties because the return of the party's book does not change either the worldview or the value, the views of individuals. In addition, constitutionality is also questionable about this provision. During 1991, a regulation of similar content was adopted which was valid for only 3 months. On the other hand, it was pointed out that police officers should certainly be prohibited from being members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of commercial companies as it was done in the Security and Intelligence Act. It has been warned that the reception does not define the concept of unworthyness as already defined in the existing law, which significantly increases the possibility of abuse because it also determines by discretionary assessment. In fact, an observation has been made that in the proposed way it is regulated in law, human resources management, and later on, the minister will prescribe it as a regulation, does not lead to police professionalisation. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The law on criminal proceedings for which this proposal does not provide for a way of supervision. Unlike security services, the measures implemented by the MUP are not subject to the supervision of a specific body. Until now, this surveillance has been carried out in individual cases by the Committee, meaning specifically the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. It also notes Article 5 of the Law, which provides for the minister to appoint an independent body to act in accordance with the provisions in the second instance. The opinion was made that the so-called body cannot be independent as soon as appointed by the minister and that the body has no power to take actions in the event of an irregularity. If an independent body is already established, that body should be elected either by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security or by the Croatian Parliament. In addition, it was pointed out that the establishment of this independent body did not adopt recommendations from the Ombudsman, which stated in its report the need to standardise the process of examining complaints against citizens and to strengthen the Internal Control Department. Although the majority of complaints and representations of citizens are unfounded in order to protect citizens' rights, it is necessary to standardise their conduct by law even in the event that one percent of the complaints are based. It has been pointed out that the law itself concerning the professionalisation of police officers does not make the issue known sufficiently detailed. Thus, it is not stated that professional preparation and training are needed to carry out a particular police call but is the only criterion of the length of the police training. In this way, it is possible for the leading places to be installed or there to remain persons whose expert prepares have nothing to do with police work such as designers, veterinarians, academic painters or various other professions. The view is that the Law on the Police should regulate police conduct, that instead of two laws, the whole issue should be in one law. Part of the board expressed dissatisfaction that the committee's meeting is not attended by the interior minister when it comes to such an important law or the Home Secretary's report on police affairs. It would be more important for the minister to speak to the Croatian Parliament rather than negotiate with lawmakers through the media. It was also stressed that the Minister of Home Affairs said during the appointment that it would in the shortest time encourage the amendment of police legislation to build a more transparent system of reception in service, promotions in service, appointment and resolution of managers, thus creating assumptions for a higher level of internal order and discipline, motivation for work and feelings of belonging to a police organisation. It is obvious from the above that the draft law should have been carried out long ago, not on the European Union's orders. The applicant thanked the expert, detailed analysis of certain provisions of the law, noting that some of the remarks were noticed by the government and 15 amendments were prepared to remove some of these shortcomings. So once of the amendments he also refers to unworthyness. At the representative's point of view, the president said he had repeated the emergency procedure again, and thus after the vote, we proposed that the Police Act be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69955	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. And the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69956	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Viewing the proposal for a new Police Act, it is easy to see the reasons why the Croatian government has joined the creation of a new Police Act. First of all, one of the main reasons is the entry into force of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers on 1 July 2009, which ceased to apply to the provisions relating to the areas of police affairs and powers while the provisions of that law governing the organisation of police and the legal position of police officers in part of the provisions were to be regulated in particular. The reason for amending the law is also the adoption of the Strategy for reforming the human potential management system for the period 2009 to 2011 which fulfils and assumes the obligation to regulate the working legal status of police officers in accordance with European Union regulations. The strategy proposes to address the issue of the development of police officers as well as issues of professional values, criteria for the employment of police officers, rules of transfer, rules of progress and police titles as well as police education. New legal solutions seek to ensure the implementation of structural reforms and police management, but in a way that respects all specificities of police service. It is a business for which a police officer must have special skills, mental and physical ability and always be ready to act. These specificities are also reflected through specific conditions for the employment, adoption of specific knowledge and skills during the service and specificity of the promotion in titles. Certain legal provisions aim to protect the integrity of police service and police officers. Building a transparent system of progress, rewarding, evaluation, transfer, education, improvement, health and psychological assistance as well as other rights from working legal relations. Due to the above, some of the issues of labour law are prescribed in a different way than other civil servants and general labour regulations. In his opening speech, Mr Tomislav Karamarko, while taking office as Interior Minister, also stressed the police's continued professionalisation. Professionalization is the key objective of this law. One of the most important objectives of the proposed legal solutions and the setting up of police services as well as police services since entering the police service, each official must see the possibility of developing a personal career based on progress through police calls. The new bill envisions instead of 10, 12 police calls so far. Police officers shall be determined by the following names: police officer, police officer, police sergeant, senior police sergeant, independent police sergeant, police inspector, senior police inspector, independent police inspector, chief police inspector, police advisor and chief police adviser. The police law provides for a police officer to advance by promoting the move and appointment. Standards and standards of professional development are set to depend on the success of police work, personal police calling, time spent in police service, years of life. And the new law prescribes conditions for the appointment and resolution of police officers. The Director-General shall be elected through a public tender in time of five years, subject to minimum working conditions of 15 years on the job of a police officer and at least 10 years at the head of the job in calling the chief police advisor. The Director-General shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister. The deputy head of director, chief of police and police station chief is being announced through an internal ad. The Deputy Assistant Chief Director and Head of Police's Administration shall be appointed by the Minister on a proposal from the Director-General. The Head of the POS shall appoint the Director-General on the proposal of the Head of Administration. The jobs of police officers are classified in three categories and are the jobs of police officers, senior police officers and the jobs of lower police officers. A system of evaluations is arranged which is transparent and objective. As far as depoliticalisation is concerned, some restrictions have been imposed on police officers, where they differ from other civil servants, which are a ban on political parties, and a ban on running in local and state elections. A police officer shall not attend political meetings in an official uniform unless he is present for the purpose of carrying out official duties. Also through the provisions on management staff, public procurement aims to achieve a high criterion, to choose as many professional staff as possible to contribute to the depolitisation of police. The law offers as an important paper the introduction of a civil surveillance institute as a percentage of the resolution of complaints, natural and legal persons in the second degree. The commission consists of three members, one police officer and two representatives of the public. In particular, it should be commended for transparency in the creation of a new Police Act, with a wider circle of people from the Ministry of the Interior, and representatives of the union. The work material was published on the website of the MUP, making it available to the general public. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Police Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69957	Thank you. It is next to the club of independent representatives, the distinguished representative Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. ... that there is a law in front of us that needs to be well considered, because there is a strong concentration of power and always in democratic states, that power must be controlled both by parliamentary and civil society, which is what the national security strategy also obliges us to do. [[You don't understand.]] I will try this bill, i.e. this law, to consider in just two points, since I have carefully looked at the amendments that have already arrived at the table, both the Government and other colleagues and fellow MPs, so as to avoid repetition. So I will pay particular attention to the rights of citizens and civilians, and others to the rights and rights of both police officers and police officers in these sensitive times, when I feel that sometimes I lack respect for this responsible job. So in this first area of citizens and civilians' rights, and this second one with the rights of police officers and police officers, there is room for improvement in this law, which is why I have written several amendments, and I suggest that we carefully consider this law, so that we do not commit any serious failures or mistakes. When we talk about banning membership in political parties, then it sounds great at first glance, we all remember some of the infamous examples that we used to see most of the time, but it should be completely honest. A ban on political party membership does not necessarily mean depoliticalisation. Depolitisation would be a ban on political action, not just passive membership. There are people who have been or have been members of their parties for 15 and 20 years who have been self-absorbed, who have done their job, who have stayed with the police, no matter who was in power, who are now in a position to choose between two difficult decisions. We may also be intruding a little bit into their human rights, so I suggest that we seriously consider whether instead of banning membership we can try to set this by banning political action, but also by banning the behaviour of functions at local, lowest levels, to those national ones. Forbidden membership I really don't think, we're trying to like the looks of those who listen to us, who want to hear there's depoliticization, but I think it's a rough and not necessarily step in depoliticization. Now, about the progress, which I think is a little bit civil, I can see that some of them are solving the amendments, so I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to turn my attention to Article 47. So let me just say that, I'm not going to read the whole article of course, because it's pretty big, it's talking about getting into the police and filling out the jobs of police officers, which the conditions must meet from years of age, citizenship, mental, physical, health, physical motor skills, so it can't be a member of the political party again, I've already explained, but there's one term that says must be worthy of performing police service. Each of us, under the word of a decent police service, can have an opinion. We can say that we trust a minister or that we're a minister to someone else or someone else's future, but I don't think it's supposed to be a term that can be interpreted on an arbitrary basis, so we might as well think about that term. But it should certainly be built in this article that this person must not be, to have the power of judgment. So I guess that's an oversight. Then he can't be a bully. If this non-violence was meant to be put under decent police service, all right, so it's possible that this is the part, but I want to draw attention, because it would be really good for us to be very, very precise with these laws, because it's about human rights. Now, speaking of human rights, I would then get to Article 5, but only before I warn about the article 87 that talks about specialized and professional training and the programmes that are being implemented. We consider that education to be possible, and so far they have often, not often, but have occasionally been conducted by NGOs, civil society organisations, of course in cooperation with the Police Academy and with the consent of the directors. They say there have been good experiences, especially in the area of anti-discrimination, hate crimes and the like, so it might be good to install that part. Now, the article I hold to seek a very serious analysis is Article 5, which speaks of monitoring, monitoring of the time when someone has the right to complain, i.e. to submit a play or complaint about the work of a police officer or another employee. That's where the 30-day deadline was put. That deadline may sound good, it's technically fine, but if we know for such a complaint, for such a performance it takes quite a lot of courage because it's a repressive apparatus, then it might be a good idea to consider whether it's even necessary to set a deadline or why that deadline should be so short. Now, the composition of the commission. The composition of the commission, it says, are three members, a police official of the ministry, two representatives of the public appointed by the minister on a proposal from civil society organisations, professional public organisations and NGOs. A good proposal, a proposal for a composition, however, needs to be seen whether there is a better possibility of appointing so that we do not discuss the conflict of interest quickly, so as not to discuss possible capacities and how we would not doubt anything and the effectiveness of such a commission. It would be good, then, to put the Attorney General's Office in that body. Then, to avoid interpretation of the conflict of interest, consider whether a parliamentary committee should be conducted instead of a ministerial appointment. The Committee on Selection and Designation, the Committee on Human Rights as a very good solution or the Committee on Internal Policy. A few variations that should be considered. I'm personally inclined to the Human Rights Committee, but I don't think it's a good idea for the minister to appoint himself. There will also be a question of the capacity of the body to work. In the hope that there won't be a lot of such remarks, I should consider it and write it in the amendment, so I suggest you seriously consider whether such bodies may also be needed at the level of police administrations. I'm not going to suggest, you'll certainly be able to assess, but it's very important for me to consider one such decentralisation. I am sorry to have left out the opinion of the County Assembly. I am one of those who have long ago been two thousand and some have proposed the opinion of the County Assembly because I think it is good to have local environments, you can not exactly say that they have had an impact on such a choice, but it was very important and it was very important to help the minister get a certain message from the local unit in which that chief is leaving. Those were always signs of messages. There's no one here. So, the law is still fixable, there's an amendment. It should be accepted, and with 2 to 3 amendments, I think we can really have a good law that we will not say that we write for the EU but for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69959	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zdravko Kelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69960	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. An important reason for the adoption of a new Police Act is the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Act, which required the creation of a special legislation on the regulation of police powers and was adopted in the context of the reform of the normative regulation of criminal repression by the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. In principle, the 1997 Penal Procedure Act was governing investigations of criminal offences while the 2008 Law on Criminal Procedure leaves the reconnaissance to a special law, namely the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. Its application ceases to apply a large number of provisions of the old Police Act, which is why the law in question is clearly proposed. We believe that this law should have been proposed even then parallel to those laws because, in the meantime, it was a legal void that opened the space probably to some questionable actions. The subject-matter of the bill between other newspapers and the quality it brings should also be seen as an important contribution to meeting the criteria for the creation of Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental rights because this proposal seeks to improve the efficiency and independence of the police by prescribing the depolitisation of police officers, specialisation and the introduction of measures leading to increased professionalisation. In addition, some proposed provisions are based on the protection of police and police officers' dignity by building a transparent system of progress, rewarding, evaluation, transfer, education, training, training, medical and psychological assistance as well as other rights of employment. In view of all of the above, this law provides for individual issues of the working-legal position of police officers to be different from the law which regulated the issues of civil servants. Namely, because of the specificity of police work that requires certain physical and social predisposition of police officers, it is also necessary to redefine the status of the police officers. A wide range of people from both the Ministry of the Interior and the union ranks were included in the draft bill, and the work material was published on the Ministry's website and was made available to the general public. The bill regulates the foundation of the Police at 3 hierarchical levels – the Police Directorate, Police Administration and Police Stations. The subject proposal foresees the possibility of professional development in police service based on continuous education and proposes classification of jobs in 3 basic levels – leading police officers, jobs of senior police officers, jobs of lower police officers, and instead of the 10 so far, 12 police calls are proposed. The bill proposes to regulate the rights and duties of police officers and restrictions in the police service by prescribing the right to professional development in the police service through continued education and promotion in the service, the right to information on job vacancies and plans and implementation of education. The right to psychological assistance to police officers who directly or indirectly participated in traumatic situations, the right to trade union organisation and ban membership in political parties and bans in political action in the ministry and to run for state and local elections. The issue of the transfer of police officers has also been regulated so that transfers are provided for on a personal request and, where appropriate, for a fixed and fixed period of time. The basic rule is that the transfers are primarily carried out on a personal request based on a list of job vacancies that the ministry is obliged to publish at least twice a year, while due to the need for a transfer service only takes place in exceptional situations. It is also prescribed that, as in the Law on civil servants, a police officer should be transferred to work only in the context of the acquired degree of his education and personal calling and, exceptionally, with the written consent to a lower place of employment than the person for which he meets the conditions laid down in the Internal Order Regulation. The bill specifically provides for the protection of police officers who can be relocated until police officers who are missing 5 years of age and police officers who have more than 20 years of effective employment cannot be transferred or cannot be deployed to another post without their written consent or written request. This bill contains quality shifts in relation to previous solutions. Article 22 provides for an increase in the rights in the case of death-sufficient police officers in the service and the family is paid for financial assistance at the level of the last paid net salary increased 24 times, so far it was 12, paid funeral and housing costs, and the obligation to support the regular schooling of children. If we want to be absolutely correct, we believe that this article should be complemented in a way that the family should be entitled to the costs of children, travel expenses for escorts, cremation costs, and children of deceased officials are entitled to a secure scholarship for schooling. Article 23 is also laid down the right to compensation of police officers in the event of an injury to work or a professional disease paying cash aid at the level of the last paid net salary increased 24 times and housing care. In addition, the HSS Club considers that it is mandatory to impose collective insurance on police officers on the consequences of an accident during the service. As a good solution, we see the provisions of Article 24 which prescribe the rights of persons who are injured when assisting police officers in performing their duties. We believe that this encourages more active involvement of citizens in crisis situations without the risk of their non-care in the event of an injury or by God's death. Let's remember the Golic case a few years ago. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does this mean that this law does not apply equally to all police officers? If there are places in the police service where it is possible to hire political involvement of police officers. Article 61(3) lays down the conditions for the Deputy and Assistant Director-General and the Head of Police Administration. Since these conditions are the same as for the Director-General and we do not think they should be in exactly the same rank, the HSS Club proposes that the proposed length of work experience be reconsidered. A police officer who is available in Article 67 shall be subject to an obligation to accept the job offered for which he fulfils the conditions and, in the event of his refusal, his service shall cease. We consider it necessary to prescribe that the offered job is no lower than its qualification, so in the event of refusal of work under these conditions, the termination of service occurs. It provides for the right to professional development of police officers through continuous education and advancement. A police officer is making progress by promoting transfer and appointment. Also, the duties and rights of police officers to be trained permanently for jobs and to improve in the profession and skills through organised education programmes. In advance, we believe that Article 79 should be complemented in terms of prescribing additional stimulation based on the salary of police officers who have achieved the scientific degree of doctor or master of science, or professional specialists, and if they achieve remarkable results in the field of sports or martial arts. The resulting provision will contribute to the positive process of police reform where excellence will be rewarded in order to have a good, fair, qualified and cultural police, satisfied with their work and status in society. The basic task of the police is to protect the citizens and eliminate the dangers of society. Therefore, we believe that police officers should feel pride and satisfaction in doing their job, but they should also feel the security of the state and society that they are serving. They need to know that according to the quality of work they will take their place in the police hierarchy, they should be aware of the fair opportunities of advancement in the service, the transparent evaluation of the results of work, the positive attitude towards professional ethics and the ability to make better profit with greater engagement. In addition to the correction of the above comments, the HSS Club considers that the law in question makes good progress and will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69961	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDSSB club, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69962	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. A series of criteria for the closure of Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights identified the need to take measures to improve the efficiency and independence of police including depolitisation, as well as increased professionalism and specialisation of police officers. In this sense, today we have before us this bill of police that regulates the basics of the police organisation and the specificity of the legal position of police officers in the MUP. This bill also proposes a new way of appointing and resolving police officers. To professionalise and depolitise police services, police officers are introduced for banning membership in political parties, banning political action in the ministry and banning running for state and local elections. In light of that proposal for legal solutions, the following proposals will be referred to. To the professionalization and depolitisation of police services and in the way of the appointment and resolution of police officers. Let's take it in a row. Professionalization and depoliticization. Article 38 of the bill regulates the ban on membership in the political party, the ban on political action in the ministry and the ban on running for state and local elections for all police officers. This in itself is not new, given that in our everyday life we often hear phrases about the necessity of depoliticalizing everything and everything. That's what everyone's talking about, but when we hear a word of depoliticalism from the ruling people then it causes the same bitter and painful feeling in the least, like when we hear stories about economic recovery of transparency or honesty. There is therefore a people's saying that paraphrased on the ruling party is who the HDZ on depolitisation is about. And as this looks like, we see from today's bill of law. It reminds me of that famous saying from the popular Velo Misto series, I don't want politics in my thigh. Now that would be good, but when we know that this proposal comes from the ruling HDZ, then this saying gets little but significant change in meaning. I don't want any other policy in mine than I know it. How depoliticization looks this way better and not to mention it. Just as soon as someone in HDZ says depoliticization, then you know that without a HDZ membership card, you can't be a choban, let alone a civil servant. So is today's proposal of the Police Act. Articles 58 to 62 regulate the way in which police officers are elected and appointed and resolved. Thus, the depoliticised top police officer is scheduled to be elected by the public tender at the time of 5 years, the other highly-ranked senior police officers such as the depoliticised deputy and depoliticised assistant director, and the depoliticized chief of police administration on a proposal from the depolitised head of director appointed and dismissed by the minister and depoliticised police station chiefs on the proposal of the depoliticised chief of police administration appoints and resolves the personally depolitised head of director. These police officers are elected through an internal ad. And there would be nothing disputed if the most important link between the depolitised chief director was not appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the minister, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the police minister were absolutely depolitised. After all that has been discovered, many prominent HDZs would likely be depolitized before leaving power, even when the government is changed and their IDs are hidden. Thus, depolitisation of police may be only the first step towards the full depolitisation of the entire HDZ, for the sake of evil. Then the police minister will also resolve his dilemmas, become a member of the HDZ and then submit to collective depoliticalisation or remain apolitical in the HDZ government, which is known for being depolitised by the ministers of the squad. As far as professionalizing the police is concerned, this is a rhetorical matter to itself. It is Christian to confess your sins and repent. If this proposal made by the Government of Croatia as the legislator of the law wanted to do so, then it's okay, and it probably is. Because if this bill wants the government not only to depolitise but also to professionalise the police, then that means the Croatian government's conclusion that the police have been both politicised and unprofessional so far. As far as politics is concerned, we agree, but we disagree that it was unprofessional. Indeed, at the very least, a strange finding for the government that should be the government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not just those with the HDZ card and their coalition partners. Today, the proposal for a law on police, a document on the 47 pages of the text, which can, in a certain sense, represent even a certain degree of danger for the development of democracy in Croatia. Why? One of the most important and important parts of this proposal refers to the depoliticalisation already mentioned. It is not disputed that the police should and must be depolitized, it should have been so far, but unfortunately not. Unfortunately, however, this will not be entirely the proposal of the law. For the above reasons, it is clear that the HDZ's proposal wants to do exactly the opposite because depoliticalising police officers, and leaving the selection of top-ranking police officers to decide on political personnel such as before all police ministers is nothing more than an attempt to put the Croatian police under even greater control of the ruling political structures in Croatia. This proposal means the desire to put this government under even more strict control and pendreka and other means of repression in the role of protecting the ruling from the growing dissatisfaction, and the indignation of the robbed Croatian people. And this dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens from day to day is becoming more and more pronounced after all these affairs and the discovery of robberies that have been horrified by the Croatian public is not even strange. We are witnessing the last days and increasingly frequent and increasingly massive protests throughout Croatia, justified, peaceful protests of bitter Croatian citizens of all ages. Protests are spread to Croatia like fires carried by strong winds, and the government acts like firemen with no water and no adequate fire extinguisher equipment. There is no response to the loud and clear and justified demands of the protesters for the departure of this government from power. On the contrary, the most nervous and uncontrollable statements of the highest representatives, and in particular the Prime Minister's statements and behaviour with the right of the bitter people, has caused even greater further indignation. Whatever he says down on the fire. And HDZ's government, we're afraid, is really playing with fire. No one in Croatia wants a script from Arab countries. No one wants to spill a drop of the blood of Croatian citizens on Croatian streets. Too much Croatian blood has been shed to create an independent, free and independent Croatian state for anyone who loves their country to want to watch it again. From Greek mythology and history, Pythia, the prophetess, and the priestess at the temple of Apollo in Delphi. She prophesied that she would sit on a tripod of cracks in a rock that had intoxicated money and fell into a trance. Here is our prime minister, some of her visionary statements in recent days, even reminds us of this historical prophecy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69963	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69964	He sits on the throne in Banski Dvori, not on the tripod, but in the Prime Minister's chair...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69965	You've gone far from the darkness. Honorable representative, stick to the subject, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69966	Although sitting not on the tripod, but in the prime chair, the HDZ authorities are intoxicated with the honor of the prime minister's office every day, and the entire HDZ summit prophesys a stay in power for the next 4 years. Both she and the entire HDZ summit believe or at least she wants to trust her prophecies. But the problem is, no one else believes it. The HDZ Summit wonders what's happening around them because they live in an unreal world of fiction and artificial well-being...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69967	Your Honor, I want you to stick to the subject. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69968	I'm done. It is good for them, and as it is for the citizens, so it is all about what is happening around us, and as Croatia's citizens simply don't see it from their dream. It's time to wake up from a dream and go back to reality, and they won't like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69969	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69970	Here I am on the subject. Condemning every form of violence...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69971	Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69972	By condemning every form of violence on justifiable peaceful protests, we repeat, and we will repeat that the police must always bear in mind that the basic task of the police is to protect the people from thieves, not thieves from the people. If the Croatian police had protected Croatian citizens from thieving in time, they would not be in a position today to protect the thieves from the justly bitter Croatian citizens. Can't and can't be the most important part of the Croatian police today to protect the arrival of Croatian citizens in Mark's square. It has been a cultural place for the Croatian people for centuries. The Croatian police cannot and must not be anyone's party army. Croatian police have played an immeasurable role in the creation of an independent Croatian state and no one in Croatia has the right to attack our Croatian police. But it must be and remain forever our police, the police of all Croatian citizens, not the police that protects thieves from the people that these thieves robbed. And finally, here's an example that in the public opinion raises real doubts about the real intention of the motion to depolitize the police. On January 30th 2011, at 2.20 p.m. in Nasice, police officer Josip Maltasic was found in traffic by a highly positioned HDZ official, Stjepan Pintaric of Nasic, who refused to pirate into an alcoholic, insulted a police officer and immediately called the secretary of state. The policeman immediately took away his driver's license and gave him a precaution on a document number 123 144 for 8 days. That night, the secretary of state called the Chief of Police at Nashice who couldn't contact him. Then the secretary of state called the station and said he had appointed the police station chief and unless he heard from him that he would be replaced. In the morning the withdrawal of the driver's license was entered into the terminal and entered in manual records. The same day, the driver's license was returned to the State Secretary's intervention by a high-ranking drunk HDZ official, deleted everything from the terminal and told all officials who are familiar with the fact that this is not to be discussed. In the driver's handbook, the driver's license is still undebted, but it was returned to Mr. Pintaric on the same day. No charges have been filed against Mr Pintaric. I am pleased to have Mr. Ivica Buconjic with us today, the Secretary of State of State of the Ministry of the Interior, as he is the State Secretary who called it and who ordered everything to the police station in Nasice. So I ask you, Mr. Buconjic, if this is true, if it's true and we're afraid it is, then you, Mr. Secretary of State, should resign immediately on the conduct of this honorable duty. You saw how the German defence minister acted the other day when he resigned on his ministerial duty because of an immeasurably small matter. If you do this then we will truly believe that it is a real, sincere intention to depolitize the Croatian police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69973	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the promoter, prominent Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Interior Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69974	Here I'd just like to ask Mr. Buric that everything he said in front of the cameras, check it out, and then you and I will decide what measures we're going to take. Check well what you said in front of the cameras, in front of the Croatian public, and then you and I will decide how things will continue to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69975	I agree with you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69976	Thank you very much. And we move on. You didn't get the word. You didn't get the word "respectful representative." I give you a warning, because you speak beyond permission. You can't talk, you didn't get the word. Thank you. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Igor Dragovan on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69977	Mr. Vice President, there's no need for you to negotiate here from a pay phone when there's a Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in the House that's going to make these allegations, which is why you're going to see who's the right representative or secretary of state. No one ever mentioned the police as a problem for chapter 23. We have been told for years that the police have been depolitised, as is an example of others in the region, that they receive only praise from Europe. When a year and a half ago a former police director spoke of a cellophane and a bad product wrapped in a cellophane, he was kindly asked to watch what he said and especially where he said it. And I'll remind you that's what he said in the Croatian Parliament. And how now, suddenly, because of this chapter 23, how it explains the urgency of the procedure on the tables, we get changes to the Police Act, a fundamental legal act for nine hundred thousand police officers. This is unserious, but also very dangerous for both police officers and citizens whose safety should be protected and if you will towards the European Union. And what exactly is the rush and what happened here? It seems that, in the opinion of European experts, the depolitised police for the mandates of this government are again assessed as politicised or someone is setting us up to sell us a candle horn, so, speaking to Europe, they want to cement the existing police structure. It's quite obvious both. Europe's colorful cellophane is no longer unwinding because the product is not good in any way, as well as for Croatian citizens, patience is near its end. And as this government refers to laws and repressive apparatus. Here's an example. When, in the media, girls report various criminal charges, their details, statements and the like, when they announce burials in tombs, persecutions, criminal charges, arrests, no one in power is particularly concerned by anyone in power. Moreover, you will rarely hear from journalists that their sources are just high-ranking in the MUP, and then one statement emerges from which to read that the current prime minister was more than familiar with the black HDZ funds. And moreover, she was involved in a kind of handover. And here you are, spotting VONS and announcing a hasty amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why? So in order to stop the inconveniences of the prime minister probably with the threat of criminal persecution that would be prescribed by the new Criminal Procedure Act. But I'm going back to the Police Act. So, the law proposed by the government, and I repeat this by an emergency procedure, has at this time only one of the most important objectives for the government, and this is to remain within the longer term at the top of the police chief of staff who have come to these duties on the HDZ political line. The very urgency of the procedure he insisted on by ruling HDZ is that he does not want to secure a wider political debate on this overarching law that regulates both civil rights and powers of the repressive apparatus, and that he wants to quickly and without much noise to push through a system that will expose the state of police in the manner that corresponds to HDZ. How else do you understand the attempt to choose the new chief director of police for a five-year term just under the exception of the new law now in the last year of office? The same director would remind him of respected colleagues and colleagues if he had changed them to HDZ over the past seven years. So, five directors over the past seven years, and according to this bill proposed, it would be harder to change than to caricate the President of the Republic. The law does not stipulate that you can change someone because, for example, they do their job badly. Is it normal that citizens will conclude it themselves. Is it normal for security agencies to have this kind of surveillance on covert data collection measures, which are listening, tracking, cell location, their lists without the police. And that no surveillance is foreseen in these changes. I mean, first of all, that civilian, civilian surveillance. But that's why the proposer of this law offers us supervision that would be in the power of the minister himself. So there is no civil surveillance, but persons appointed by the minister should control the work of the police. The solutions that police work is supervised by only three people, two members of the NGO sector and one police officer appointed by the minister is not really any civilian surveillance but merely the satisfaction of the form required by Brussels. In this country, shall we finally begin to pass laws that are citizens, not state apparatus and appliances in it in the first place. The laws to protect Croatian citizens, not continue to build Podokin's village from Croatia, as Sanader's spirit still seems to live in the Croatian government. A much better and more democratic solution would be if, for example, the supervisory authority appointed this Parliament or the parliamentary parent committee. Until yesterday, the concept of police action in the community boasted about all their mouths. It is a serious project that has been implemented for ten years, a project that truly praises Europeans. And what happens today? Today, the legislative proposal seeks to abolish the opinion of the County Assembly on the appointment of the chief of police administrations. Be careful, the abolition of opinion, and that opinion was optional, instead of further working out this solution in terms of a binding, abolishing and giving an opinion to the person who will be responsible for the security situation in the area of exactly the county that should give that opinion. What is he afraid of and afraid of by Minister Karamarko? For the past 10 years, practice has shown that everything in one or two cases has been negative. Who was it that got in the way of good co-operation between the police and the local community? Co-operation to address everyday security problems, build mutual trust, which is one of the key things to doing police work successfully. Furthermore, we cannot agree with the concept of one integrated legal matter, which is police, divided into two laws, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, and the Law on Police. What does the government want with that? It is strange that repressive measures that are the essence of police work are separated from human rights and obligations, and organisations that should implement these measures. It is more appropriate for democratic society to have police affairs and rights in one place, so it is clear that a good deal of these rights stems from the work they do. Furthermore, the Police Act introduces two ways of filling up police posts, the jobs of the lower and senior police officers are filled in by a work competition, and the management of officials by an internal tender. In this way, the government wants to protect the leading places from the prescribed procedures, so instead of a transparent public tender system applicable to ordinary police officers, only internal procedures are envisaged for high and leading personnel which are naturally subject to political similarity. The law also introduces two types of police officers, a police officer under the Law on Police Powers, Jobs and Powers, and a police ministry official who performs tasks closely related to police work. It's unclear who has any authority and who's responsible for what. If a double definition of police officers has already been resorted to, then all these others should have been fully defined, or this is again a fictional function to take care of their own. To prove to the public that this law is a depoliticisation of police, a ban on political parties is being imposed on all police officers. This is explained and said, for the sake of professionalisation and further depoliticalisation of police services, the bill introduces a ban on membership in political parties. Come on, please, do you really think anyone believes that? Here's a icon from the current life. Interior Minister Karamarko is not formally a member of any political party, but he is nevertheless one of the most prominent people who pop out of texts on new persons with whom HDZ heads tomorrow. The same minister publicly demonstrates the Croatian defender, a victim of Serbian camps, who has been lagging around in Sarajevo's extradition detention until now, arguing, the minister himself claimed that he had evidence that Purda had been informed that he was on the force, regardless of what he was through his wife and through his lawyer, had been denied. The politicisation of police is, when police politics are involved in police work, politicisation is when certain journalists are asked not to write and others are dictated, politicisation is when public and national security is mixed, and as long as MPs in the Parliament require the interior minister to conduct an investigation against some political insinuators, and the minister publicly declares that he will do so, until then Croatian police will be politicised. With the adoption and entry into force of this Police Act, the Law on the Police will completely cease to apply in the 2001 Parliament, in which the law organisation and obligations of police officers are regulated in one place, as well as the powers and affairs of the police. The law was passed in two readings, a broad consensus, and only with a few hands against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69978	Thank you very much. Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69979	Another sentence, and now the new law is passed without agreement, over the knee, it does not provide him with any quality, probably even a more permanent period of application. The SDP will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69980	Thank you very much. It's the SDSS Club, the Honorable Representative Horvat. I'm sorry, we have two corrections, I'm sorry. First is Honorable Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69981	Thank you. Well, you incorrectly told your colleague Dragovan that these are changes to the Police Act, so this is a new law, but it's very good that you've revealed yourself that in this proposal you are the most disturbing, which is that you won't be able to change everything when you come to power, so you won't be able to put the chiefs of police administrations, as Sime Lucin has asked for all the assistant ministers to put on the table of mandates. Well, you see, that won't be possible anymore. You and I, if you want to work revolutionaryly, will have to change this law. And that's why I think it's a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69982	And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Dragovan accusing the police, incorrectly normal, of being politicized and of being repressive, which is not true. The police are this efficient, and that's what bothers the most. In 2001, the repressive police, just for comparison, accused all the mayors and mayors of the municipalities of the same, the same charge was, abuse of position and the conclusion of harmful contracts signed by the local SDP. The calls went half-night, the hearing lasted days and days, and in the end, since no one could be charged, no one said or pardoned. Gentlemen repressors, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69984	Thank you very much. It's the SDSS club, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69985	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired party joins those, all those clubs that have expressed their view here in the assembly that there is no reason for an emergency procedure to pass this law, unless Mr. Rebić has now revealed to us the basic reason why this law is in the emergency procedure. In fact, at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement, we think that this law on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament has come into the driving manner at the fifth speed, which is very, very dangerous. Furthermore, we cannot accept in HNS-HSU that the adoption of the Police Act is a condition for the closure of Chapter 23. I think it would be very tragic for Croatia if the adoption of one law would be a condition for closing chapters for reasons that Europe as well as we are interested in the functioning of the entire system. The fundamental argument of why we think so is in the law itself. In fact, the law provides for a period of 6 months for the adoption of regulations, regulations and instructions, and only by adopting regulations, regulations and instructions can the whole system be rounded up and the system can become functional. Therefore, the very proposal in the legal norms itself is hidden, so it is denied that this law is a condition for the closure of Chapter 23. I don't know if you've counted, but this law of 120 articles in 38 articles calls for a regulation, regulation or guidance to be made by a minister, a government or a police director. I don't think we've had a law like this in a long time that's called for regulation in 38 articles. We could have agreed on a law of 5 articles and then said everything else would be defined by a minister by a regulation or by a government regulation. Furthermore, something specific about exactly, I want to discuss about this law and shortcomings, I don't want to talk too much about, even though I'm going to look back at current events, but that's not the point. First, what is missing from this law is written in a strange language, an unusual language for the other laws that we receive here, and I think it is terribly missing somewhere in article 2. So to explain what the concept here in this law means because these are specific terms for one activity and are not in broad use. Furthermore, here it is said in this law on the need, that is, the obligation for police officers to cease to be members of political parties within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law. It cannot in itself be identified with the notion of depoliticization of the police. Therefore, the belonging of individual police officers to the parties does not automatically mean that the police are politicised or that their non-participation will mean depolitisation to the parties. I really didn't see the last two protests, I didn't tell the cops who were SDPs or HDZ cops or HDSSB cops. I can only say I'm proud of the professional relationship our police have with these ongoing protests. It didn't go that way, but that's how it is now, and it should be commended now. So, I'm not sure we're going to get to that and we're going to achieve the goal of depoliticalisation, and I say we touch human rights because it's just our citizens who have their civil and human rights and why this police officer could not be a councilman in his town or in his municipality and in some way consume all the civil rights that all the other citizens of the Republic have. I don't think this is a good message because it doesn't come to this goal that's being drawn here. Furthermore, I think that the Chapter – Management of Human Resources, at least what is proposed in the text of this law, is not because human resource management without the concept of human resources, at least a sign of the development of human resources, which means that certain capabilities of police officers are being developed, not that they are being confused. Well, the way you are, I'm gonna put you in a box that needs you, but that certain abilities are developing. There are no such concepts of human resources development, it recognizes a typical bureaucratic approach to put into the right boxes and the right positions of people. So, I don't have the dynamics that are needed for every serious service. Furthermore, I do not think it is good to avoid seeking the consent and opinion of local self-government, or regional self-government in the appointment of the Director of Police Administration. I think that this good relationship between local self-government, or regional self-government and the police must be, that it must be understood and that there must be a relationship of full trust, regardless of which party in which region, or county, municipality or city is in power. Next, something I was already talking about at this pay phone, which is the back-up of the police. Here, the law only indicated that the regulations would regulate the reserve police composition. I deal with pensioners, we have a lot of contacts with retired cops, of course not all of them, not everyone can do it, but there are stakeholders who might be in that reserve system, and I think the law could have been a little bit more resolved. And if it's going to work out, then I'm missing an inspector who's normal in all the police of this world because someone has to pass on knowledge. I may have overlooked it, I allow that possibility, but I didn't see it in that list of 12. I say, all the police in the world have it and I think it's a useful calling, or a great benefit to the police themselves in passing on experiences or knowledge. Furthermore, of course I will also say for this speaker the dissatisfaction of the HNS-HSU Club that there has been no discussion of the Police Report for the second year, and I am taking this opportunity because it is related to this matter for this law that we are discussing today. And I'll make a few more specific remarks. Therefore, one is related to Article 117, where we propose a club of HNS and HSU proposes to delete paragraph 3 because it says that a solution to the disciplinary court can be the basis for the exercise. He shouldn't be the basis for a decision of a disciplinary court, but not at all. It may be the basis for voicing disciplinary action or suspension in terms of compensation for damages, but an executive procedure without an appropriate judicial solution could not go. We also find the reference to the regulation in Article 17 of this law wrong, because the jobs with the insurance course in the increased duration of Croatian legislation have been resolved by a special law rather than by a regulation. The law calls for these jobs to be regulated by a regulation, and we have a law that can possibly be added to the law, but we cannot double the standard of certain matter. If there was no law, I wouldn't say anything, but since there's a special law on the insurance internship with an increase in duration, then there's no need to appeal to the regulation. And lastly, given that there are more than 20 amendments here on our benches, which in comparison to 120 articles means that practically every 6th article is being changed we use the right of business to improve the text of the law in front of the CNS and HSU, so that this is considered a first and second reading and that this law is being directed into a third reading, that by respecting these remarks that will today improve the text of the law and that further efforts to make this law more quality, to be better, to be more suitable, to be more appropriate to all of our experiences that we have gained and to respect more opinions, because it can't be that only one side knows everything, and that the other side knows nothing. Therefore, the HNS and HSU, or our club, will refer to this law in a way that depends on whether this conclusion will be accepted or in case the conclusion is not accepted, we will give a positive light in terms of which number of amendments are accepted, because there are indeed very high quality amendments proposed here, and this law would be best said in the third reading that all these are incorporated into the law itself, no one would be angry about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69986	Thank you. And I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 16.27 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now we're going to have a ten-minute debate, there's 20 reports, and when we're done, we're going home. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69987	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. What does Croatia look like? Is she a legal or police country on the EU threshold? Croatia where we see hooligans coming after the police, and the police don't stay in debt, but a cop kills an innocent young man. In a country where politics is instructed by police, and police often do so on a political basis. Do you remember the reckonings of the promised reckoning when significant shifts took place in the police portfolio in the internal affairs of the mob's dealings with the mob? What's the big deal today? Judge yourself, Mr. Secretary of State, and send such a message to the Minister and to the Prime Minister. We're in the first quarter of this year. How was her last year? How was 2010? It's a year of growing violence, it's worrying violence. Where are the causes of this violence if anyone in the government is wondering? An anomaly occurred in society, an individual was disappointed with society and order. Last year was Mr. Secretary of State the year in which life was hardly worth anything, where sons killed mothers, husbands of women, even grandmothers of their two colleagues, father strangled their own nine-year-old child. I'm just talking about the ugliest murders, I'm not talking about the rest. I'm asking a question with the mob what did it come down to? In all of this, the victims fell, but not the perpetrators, and at least the contracting authorities. You said the state of police would be settled, however, how to fix the state of police when you yourself admit that it has been placed on the party's key so far and limited to certain tasks. If that were the case, see if you are aware of what you are explaining in the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. You're just saying that measures need to be taken to improve the efficiency and independence of the police, and when we talked about that proposal of the last and last changes, you said that that was not the case, you said that these last changes then achieved complete depoliticalisation of politics. What is the main motive for passing such a law? That's what my colleague Dragovan is talking about, saying on behalf of the SDP club, and then it doesn't need to be repeated in particular. Where are they and do you remember those anti-mafia laws still, and will Croatia be a safe country for honest and peaceful citizens, because we need one degree and peace, or will it become and remain only a safe country for mobsters? Well, you remember that embarrassing statement from former Minister Kirina, who was just at the scene of a mob shooting saying it was a good thing. Why would the police get involved if they'd taken care of it themselves? This was the seriousness of such a minister, as well as those for whom political persecution was ordered, so if police officers knowingly did their duty on the ground, they came up with orders to find something, find something for her, find something for him. What do you think we don't know about that? Well, that's why we have certified statements from the notebook, so they'll see the light of day, I hope, very soon. Does anyone else remember the end of 2008 and the young man who started the Facebook group "I bet I'll find 5,000 Facebook guys who don't like Ivo Sanader," it was a group. In a very short time, he found 6,000 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69988	Dear MPs, don't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69989	Mr. Vice President, don't warn me about my legal...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69990	Your Honor, you can't argue with me. Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69991	It's about a final proposal on which I have the right to.../The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69992	Honorable MPs, stick to the subject and listen when I speak to you. Don't take me for granted. Stick to the subject, the subject is the law, the very serious law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69993	Do you think this is a theme for agriculture or a topic for the police, what I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69994	Stick to the subject, it's the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69995	I stick to the subject, I want the police to stick to the subject. And you won't tell me what I'm going to say because I speak within our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69996	I'll always warn you when you're away from the Rules of Procedure, and now you're away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69997	When we talk about certain articles and I'm going to say something about it, but I'm going to say something that I followed up on and I started, you're not going to shut me up. Article 44, which bears the name "Manpower Management", so there's no human being, these are potentials. Officials, tenants, all those in a painful and inexplicable situation, do their job, you call them potentials. But they're a little bit humanized, so they have an adjective. I ask you to avoid this capitalistic terminology and false translation and talk about managing, managing people, not any potential or even worse resources, as if people are some miners or some sort of thing that is then given and exhausted. But what this bill would make, I'm not going to say repeat exactly what counterpart Igor Dragovan was saying about certain proposals that continue to go on to further politicization and fear, it's a senseless fear. The police can't be scared, not even of the normative. Why name leaders in the last year of office for five years? What you're going to spend paper and pen on and harass people. Don't do it, it's not good. Such a system, as is both judicial and police, needs first and foremost the calming of the system, and does not need any turbulence, and at least in turbulent times. And I'm going to mention something else that's very important. No law can save us unless really the government's policy has any serious intention of depoliticalizing the police. Please, in no country, or in any country, there is no country where the police, at least not publicly, do not attack the judiciary. On several occasions, reports were rejected by the State's Attorney's Office. We, of the highest police officials and the minister, have this assessment whether it was so or not satisfied. So many police in the world, 90% are not satisfied when they're denied the State's Attorney's Office's application or when it comes to court, to rejections, or to acquittals, or not the kind of punishments they expected, but they shut up. The police must know that she's only on the trail of that part of the mission, I won't say in prevention, but in the process of detecting and processing only the auxiliary wheel and the warrants are given by the State's Attorney's office. Why don't you read the new Code of Criminal Procedure? And that's how you're supposed to treat yourself. On several occasions and tenacity was, it was an attack on the independence of the judiciary, and you're saying you're eager to close chapter 23. Don't do it even if you think what you're doing. This damages Croatia, it damages the closure of negotiations where police are publicly speaking about what should be done by the State's Attorney's Office or that you disagree with their decisions. And the citizens disagree and can comment on it and individuals can comment on it, but the police are not allowed to comment. Mr. Secretary of State, I know that police times are difficult right now, but there is a great responsibility not only for the minister, an even bigger prime minister. Tell her it's not courage to hold power with no tear gas or a pendejo. The one who escaped, he escaped from cowardice, let her go and show courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69998	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u69999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure under Article 208, Mr Vice-President by you because Article 208 in paragraph 3 says that the President is concerned that the speaker is not distracted or prevented in his speech, and you keep trying, not just you, be a little bit. So I think in the spirit of everything we've been talking about, we should remind you of Article 140. The penal law that speaks of violence against top state officials and which says that anyone by using force or threatening to use force prevents among other MPs in the Croatian Parliament from doing or forcing him to do what he fails to do in the conduct of his duty will be punished by a prison of 3 to 10 years, it is not an important penalty. Our only duty in the Croatian Parliament is to speak, and you are distracting us in the conduct of our duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70000	Your Honor, I did not injure the Rules of Procedure because it is the chairman's duty to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. It is true that you should be protected if you are being disturbed and that is why I rang a few times when you said to protect you, but the Rules of Procedure should be protected if you do not respect him. Let's move on. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honourable Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in a series of inaccuracy, there is a particularly incorrect assumption that there is a massive increase in violence, murder, dissatisfaction among citizens. I will only read from the report which speaks clearly and unequivocally, that the total number of victims in 2009 is the smallest in the last 8 years. The number of murders and the number of unsolved murders from one year is the smallest in the last 33 years, while the number of people killed in traffic has been the lowest in the last 34 years. The total material damage of all forms of public security endangerment was less than 22% of what do I think you're talking about today? In this House you had a report about police work with all aspects, with all indicators and figures and why you deceive Croatian public and Croatian people in such a low way. As far as police training is concerned. So it's clear what their goals are, what their European achievements are clearly said, what agreements they have signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70002	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Tomo Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70003	counterpart Antičević Marinovic claimed that in Croatia police are on the party's key. It is this legal proposal that aims to achieve further professionalisation, that everyone in the police knows that the most important thing is to do their job professionally or according to the law, unlike when we remember all well when the SDP came to power and in the same day changed 18 police chiefs from whom some were without any working experience in the police. And when the director was appointed with a year's internship at the police station. I think that's what he's trying to avoid, and I think you're trying to lead the police again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70004	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, prominent Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Interior Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70005	Thank you very much. I didn't want to intervene because I didn't expect him to be here commenting on the police work or the police work report. But here's what's wrong with politicizing this terrible tragedy that happened with the murder of this young man on Jarun. It's a terrible tragedy. Let's let the investigation take place, although the circumstances are less clear, but it's a terrible tragedy that struck all of us at the Ministry of the Interior. Second. As far as this finding of yours is concerned, I'm asking you to be careful here. I've now managed to collect here for these two minutes since you've been telling information about the number of murders, and the number of murders are of course not the only ones but are the most likely indicator of whether there is violence and how many there are. In 2000 there were murders in the Republic of Croatia 101. In 2009, there were 49 murders. Falling for 51 murders. Let's not, I don't want to justify it here by any party line or any successes, failures because they're not successes and failures as long as people die. I ask that with such numbers we be very careful, that we do not deal with them on our own and not use them for any other argument. And it was also good, Mr. Dragovan, that we read the law a little bit. In fact, you said here that the aim of this law is to politicise, since lower jobs are filled with public competition, and executive jobs are filled with an internal ad. This is about two different institutes. In particular, the public tender referred to in Article 49 is the first reception in the service. The first reception for the service is also required by a public tender as well as for all other civil servants who are admitted to the service for the first time through a competition. An internal tender is being held for the transfer of executive officials who are already in the service, and that is news. So far, it has not been the obligation of the internal tender, but could have been moved by these executive officers on an arbitrary basis without any criteria. This is a newspaper where it is prescribed that senior executive officials are moved and named by the basis of an internal tender. So it's not about two of the same institutes. And there's more I've been listening carefully I didn't want to intervene there's another series of interpretations that just aren't correct. The service shall be arranged as a career through several articles, through Article 16 which speaks of professional development, through Article 44 which speaks about the management of professional and professional competences through Article 62 which speaks of the filling of executive posts through an internal advertising of what I have said, through Article 64 which speaks of the schedule according to personal calling. No more schedules under the calling of the personal that a police officer has now been a practice. Article 70 speaks of the publication of vacancies twice a year, which is the same newspaper and will certainly contribute to making available to all officials who meet the conditions all jobs or information about them at the time they are free. Then the article 82 discusses the annual evaluation, and this annual evaluation affects a number of things from schedules, transfers, appointments, titles, and a number of other careers of each police officer. It is also important that Article 110 is also prescribed to stop progress, stop calling for police officers who are severely punished and who do not fulfil their work and professional duties. So this system isn't as banal, it's not as simple as it might seem to some. He is indeed, we have tried to create a consistent system that will allow each officer to develop his career according to his calling, in accordance with training, in accordance with learning during his work and we believe that this proposal proposed a system that is much more professional, which is much clearer, which is much more consistent than the present. Because I'm saying, please, we're really careful about some unverified facts because the law, as I said, isn't that simple, it's not banal. He is good, and he will certainly be adopted with certain repairs that we are prepared to guarantee further professionalization and the establishment of police work as a career, professional in which all those who wish to work on themselves will have clear opportunities for advancement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70006	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. Let me begin by saying with all due respect to the Secretary of State and other representatives of the Ministry of Interior that it is almost incredible for me that the Minister of Interior today does not defend one of the basic laws of his office before the Croatian Parliament. It seems that the champions of this government these days do not have the courage or cheeks to appear in Parliament. But as for the very proposal of this Police Act, which is now under emergency procedure, there are several things that I would like to point out as a particular problem. First of all, I think the problem is the procedure itself. In my personal court, this law is a deep organic law and should be passed, I hope we are all aware of most of all the MPs in this House. This law engulfs electoral rights, in the rights of national minorities, in the part of the city of district and local self-government, and also concerns the fundamental political rights of citizens, i.e. around 20,000 Croatian citizens and citizens who are police officers. I believe that this law should be adopted in accordance with Article 83 of our Constitution and 162 of our Rules of Procedure, with an absolute majority in Parliament. I also think that the problem, as my predecessors pointed out, is the problem so-called. the depoliticization of the police. This law is adopted under the cover of the criteria of Chapter 23, the closure criteria of Chapter 23 and so on. the depoliticization of the police. The depoliticisation of police is one of the European Commission's demands, which in itself proves that the Croatian police are highly politicised today, but certainly this new law does not address the problem of politicisation, but simply cements the positions of senior police high politicised officials, or police personnel. The law also kicked out the opinion of the county and city assemblies when the police chief was appointed, at various levels. That is, in my opinion, although that opinion has not been binding yet, extremely poor and shows that there is not enough respect for local self-government and regional administrations. These commissioners are very often placed on the political lines of Zagreb as we say on the ground, without respecting specificity and the need for local environments. In my view, however, the most controversial in this law is Article 38, which is counter-constitutional in my court, even though it is anti-constitutional, it does not even solve the problem of politicising the police. Among other things, it says that a police officer should not be a member of a political party, nor should he run for state and local elections. This is about depriving freedom of association, political freedoms, general passive voting law, deliriousness and the work of state bodies and local authorities, I mean representative bodies, and it is just not possible to pass this law quickly that deprives so many of the rights of 20,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a dispute for me at all, because these are the rights that guarantee our Constitution. First of all, I repeat, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and only later on, police officers. Of course, political membership must not affect their fair and professional performance, and I believe that in most cases it is not, but it is not resolved by banning party membership, political parties, because by the same logic tomorrow we can say that doctors must not be political, members of political parties because their membership allegedly prevents them from performing professional treatment, or performing their medical duties. I don't think that's the case, that's not even the case with police officers. Police officers today, under today's regulations of the Republic of Croatia, must not politically or otherwise discriminate against citizens in their actions. In addition, our constitution predicts that even some fundamental rights, which want to be abolished here, can only be taken apart, so I believe that in this law, as far as depoliticalising the police, this ordinary flossula, which does not mean depolitising the police. The problem of depoliticalism is not what some police officer is or is not a member of this or that political party, or is a representative of some municipal council of a party, but the problem is that politics is influenced and ordered by police officers and executives to act impartially, to see things through their fingers or not to see through their fingers, and this has nothing to do with printing out political party membership. And there he hides behind that cover of political membership, in the parties the most important objective of this law as my predecessors have already said, which is to create today's immeasurable personnel tomorrow, during a time when a government with another political prefix will run this country. And as it was recently, when we talked about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and here we create personnel that will be almost unchanged for five years. But there is one more thing I especially want to look back on when we talk about this law, which has not yet been discussed, and I consider it to be a problematic relationship with national minorities in this Police Act. As many here know, I come from Istria, and from its part, where many of our Italian citizens live. These thoughts have also led to two amendments that I have made to the procedure, which is complementary to the amendments given by national minority clubs, but also to the Committee on Human Rights, which suggest that in filling jobs, job openings in police organisational units at all levels, where we have a certain national minority present, they have an advantage. I think that's not enough, because as we know many of our areas have official bilingualism, where the language and letter of a certain national minority are language officials, and the very nationality of a police officer does not guarantee that the official does not know or know the language and the letter of that minority. I must say that we must be aware, since nationality is self-expressed, it cannot be proven, and cannot be proven, it is not a guarantee that this official will be able to do his job in the minority language. For example, someone may plead as Hungarian because he feels that way, and he does not have to speak Hungarian. So I ask you to really consider these amendments in this light, I have sought not to be politicized, but to really be the implementation of our Constitution and the constitutional law on national minorities. Namely, belonging to a particular minority is not a guarantee of knowing language and letter as I have said, and yet our citizens who speak and write in a different language than Croatian and Latin letters have the right in their affairs with local and regional administrations, but also with state administrations on the ground to perform these tasks and needs in their own language. Here at the very end to say that I believe that this bill is not good enough, I think you should go into another, or in third reading, I hope that some of these remarks will be respected, and further elaborated on this very, very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70008	Thank you. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief, also agreeing with my colleague Vrbat, it's not good that this law is going on very quickly, that it has yet to be completed. The more Minister Karamarko announced two years ago that he would quickly propose a law that would allow more transparent work within the service, clearer rules of conduct, progress, etc. I don't know why two years was supposed to happen, but it would have been good if we could have discussed the law in some way before. My fundamental objections are as follows: although we all agree that the foundation of trust is also in some way state officials, and especially in the Police depolitisation of her work, I don't think this law is going to do it. We will not achieve for the next reason – we have now had the situation that the minister could by his decision name and resolve the chiefs of police administrations throughout the country. We now see in the bill the minister will not do it but will work by a certain commission, but again the members of the commission are appointed by the minister himself. It determines people, meaning 4 plus 1 union representative, who will elect police leaders for certain counties and police administrations, or cities. And that's not good because again, here's the direct minister deciding who he's going to be, and the only difference is the one who's so far gone that he doesn't even have the opinion of the local self-government unit about what he thinks of a particular candidate. However, that opinion was not mandatory until now, but at least it existed. A single county or the City of Zagreb could be manifested about what it thinks and it was regulated by law to show what it thinks about a particular proposal. It's not good, and many of the world's police are choosing police leaders in these local self-government units, even somewhere, here, for example, in America and direct choice. And that we are not even asking for the opinion of the local self-government unit as to the individual proposal of the minister, i.e. the ministry, that is, in this case the commission which is drawn up exclusively from the proposal of the Minister himself. And I think that opinion should go back to the law. In my opinion, even if it were mandatory, to be positive so that the local self-government unit would have an impact on the selection of the head man of the Police Administration in its unit. The other problem is that when you see what the conditions are, let's say for the appointment of the principal, there's nothing other than 15 years in the service and that he's been in the lead post for 10 years and that he's got a police calling chief police advisor. So there's no professional training necessary to behave that place. And the choice is done again in a way that doesn't suggest there will be depoliticalism. The minister will propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia. So the question is, where is the profession and where is the independence of the principal of the policy that sets it? The specific problem is the matter of the mandate to which it is appointed, and why now? For 5 years, which means right before the elections we will make changes in all police administrations, appoint a new principal and these people will simply not be possible to change. No matter what the assessment of their work, whether it's like this or what's important, it's going to be an obvious structure of people who are going to be similar now and who are going to be at the will of the current government who is proposing this law. I also disagree with the provision that police officers cannot be members of political parties. It might be a good thing that this condition exists possibly for the Chief Director of Police and the Chiefs of Police, but for all officials, she told her colleague, Vrbat, 20 thousand people to rule out simply their fundamentals, I would say, and constitutional law in this way is not good. It is not an army, it means in some way that officials who are not in uniform could not be members of political parties either. I don't think that's absolutely necessary for that, and that's kind of a false excuse and an example by which we depolitize the police. And it doesn't have to be true, of course, or it's going to be this way, like I said, how people are chosen before, actually. We will choose them again in a way that determines the policy, from who will be chief director, chief of police administrations, in a way their deputies and assistants directly appointed by the minister. So again politics will have such a degree of influence that we won't be able to say that the police are depolitic. I would love to, and therefore I will not support this law, if at least one more reading had passed, and that these remarks that I have made here have already been discussed and adopted. I find it hard to believe that the adoption of this law is exclusively due to the closure of Chapter 23, because I simply don't see it guaranteeing greater depolition of the police. I don't think there's any argument that this is required by Europe, but here it is, if anyone claims it, and the government obviously claims that's how we're going to have to trust them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70010	Thank you. First of all, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect to say that it is not defined as the Director of the Police, contrary to Articles 58 and 59, it is clearly defined the exact criteria that must be met and the expert preparation must have, unlike when the Party has decided on what the Director must have. Well, when you guys decided he didn't have to have anything, he just had to be a member of the Communist Union. SDP. And without working experience, he could have become chief of police of the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration and in half a year he could have become Director of Police. That's how the party decided. Now everything is defined by law. And do not deceive the public of Croatia again when this law speaks of all aspects and all needs and professional education of each of those in the police hierarchy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70012	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Maras Chapter 23, has been established long ago in the EU. We have been negotiating for many years since the prime minister from Salzburg and Mrs Kosor is on the EU's accession. So for chapter 23, where it is said and the depolitisation of the police has been known long ago. It's interesting how you yourself noticed that just before the new elections comes this legislative proposal on professionalisation and depolitisation of police. Is it a confession that professionalization has not been so far during what I know... Minister and FIMI Media etc.? Is this perhaps an attempt to illegally politicise the police and now it is admitted that the police are publicly politicised, and then it will be secretive. Because the structures that are now going to be depolitized I think it's very interesting how you're breaking someone's SDP, the HSS out of your head you're no longer a member and here you are now depolitized, don't worry. So it's actually going to be illegal politicizing of the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70014	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70015	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, I think you've set a good point about not bringing this in for the closure of chapter 23, but I would like to look back a little bit on how the chief police director is elected. Is depoliticization and expertise conditioned that someone for 15 years is a police officer like one of the conditions here? two conditions are 15 years and 10 years in charge and laid down or acquired personal police calling the chief police advisor. And now it's a condition that it's really the best professional person possible, etc. So don't convince us that you've made sure that person is a professional. And be careful, it can be resolved exclusively on a personal request, due to permanent incompetence, or if it has made weight on duty. And you know what makes it easier to break up a duty you can't solve? He doesn't have to come to work on time, he doesn't have to be diligent about the means to work, he can crash a police official's car that's at his disposal, and you can't solve all that. Please, there's only one idea of depoliticization to actually be politicized by the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70016	Thank you. I must nevertheless allow me to have been Minister of the Interior for a long time some things to say. The first calling to achieve the calling needed to be the principal must have certain conditions between the school and the university, or something, which is prescribed by the systematization of jobs. So you have to take that into account and you don't need to put into law what's already prescribed in another way. And another thing I want to say. Both professionalisation and depoliticalisation are processes that continue and that will continue. And surely we all need to contribute together, right through the discussions, to encourage these processes to go faster, to be firmer and to achieve both in the optimal sense. And we have one injury from the Businessmen, the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Mr. Vice President, article 209 was injured in his reply to my correction to an incorrect quote. In doing so, he violated Article 209 and did not replicate his colleague Buric but responded to me. And I must say that it clearly states in Article 58 that a person who meets the general legal requirements can be appointed as the principal director and meets the specific conditions of what the vice president said. And I must stress that it's not a party school that hundreds of officers are admitted into a working relationship without a public competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70018	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70019	Thank you very much. According to article 209 Mr. Djakić called me Buric, and I am Grubisic, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70020	Thank you very much. I won't comment. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the proposing representative, esteemed Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Interior Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70021	Thank you very much. Here is the fact that several times the same claim has already been made, and now the last one has been repeated by Commissioner Maras just one clarification. So, no cementing and no volunteerism and no giving and calling and eye acts. Namely, and now there is a regulation on titles that says how they are acquired and what are the conditions for acquiring titles and advancements. So it's said that high-preparation calls, that, that and that, you can get the initial call with high-preparation after the state's expert exam and the call exams have been passed. After 5 years you can get the next call if you are least rated every year by a good grade, unless you are severely punished and if you have a job that allows you to acquire that title. So now it's been arranged to advance and get higher callings. This law also states in Article 56 that police title is obtained depending on the degree of education, working experience in police affairs, the form of professional training, the exam for calling and annual evaluations. It will be dealt with in more detail by a regulation, as is the case now. So there's no volunteerism, and there's no subjectivism in the assignment. It will be prescribed in a clear and transparent manner. This, too indirectly, gives an answer to your comment on the possibility of appointing the director and what the director must have. It says here that he must have 15 years of work experience in performing police duties, of which at least 10 years at the workplace of a police officer and laid down and acquired a personal police calling chief police adviser. The chief police advisor is the highest-ranking police officer and has him at this point in the I.P.P.D. about 30 police officers. Not one or two, but about 30. I said this law tries to establish police service as a career as professional under pre-known conditions. I'm asking you, can the President of the Supreme Court be a lawyer or does he have to be a lawyer with a court-law and a certain age of calling in a court case? A parallel one. Our goal is to establish a professional career service without volunteering and without politics. I said, I should have read the law a little more seriously, it's not banal, it's not simple, it's consistent and it's trying to really establish a good system. And now I wanted to answer to Reverend Buric, and I see he's gone, since he asked for my shift. Here I received a preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice in Nasice from 31 January 2011 which reached a conviction for Mr Stjepan Pintarić, and on the application or indictment of the Nasice Police Station under number 511-07-29/3P-223/11 of 31 January. So much for what he called me, but apparently when he noticed that I had got the solution he came out of the assembly, but let it serve him the honor of attacking so casually. Otherwise here, I'll try to give you clarifications and intervene every time you may not have quite figured out some institutes of this law. I said that on the Committee on Internal Policy when some representatives of my colleague Dragovan, a colleague of Ostojić, were really professionally, competently commenting on individual institutes and I also tried to give the same competent answer, and I will try until the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70022	Thank you. We are continuing with an individual debate. It is next to the honourable representative of Ivica Pancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70023	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In line with that "beware of the Danish and when the gifts are brought" we must now be a little skeptical and cautious because when the ruling party talks about depoliticalisation and professionalization, man must at the very least be a little skeptical. Because the only thing that's been going on in these rooms for almost 20 years, and even before in communism, it's been humanizing, and we're all, or all of us, the older ones who are, in a way, the children of that communism. And as the frame shows best the situation in which Croatia was in was an economic, political and moral crisis. And that's why it's a little weird when after how many years we say that we're going to speed up this process of professionalization and depoliticalization. And what were we doing? If we were living in one Scandinavian environment and this is about a conservative and social democratic party on the other hand, one would say that it makes sense, but we know very well that we don't live in such an area, and that everything here was coming down, all of it, which means 99% of personnel based on obedience and political similarities. And there's nothing spectacular about it when after a change of government and a change in a certain number of people, the only problem is that to this day we haven't established and achieved a consensus on how many people change by changing power. Because all of us who deal with politics well know that those who have come to a political position, on the political line, should leave it and leave. There's nothing personal, there's nothing special, there's no rematchism, there's just that in one democratic system that we hope to build. And there are no children to feed, there are no unemployed wives and others but who came on the political line after the election, if his option is to lose and go and wait for another better chance. And because of this and when we talk about the police as one important service of social Croatian, in this case Croatian society needs to know what position they are in, it should immediately be acknowledged that they are in a far better position than perhaps some other institutions that have been depolitised and professionalised since the early 1990s, often from those old people from this mentioned communism, only by the difference that they had a membership card then not the former but similar parties. And such depolitisation has led us here where it is. And that is why a few months before the elections now to pass this law and firstly to point out that it is about depoliticalisation and professionalisation of police is extremely controversial. Moreover, this is about the consolidation of the HDZ personnel structure that has been created in the police for at least 16 years, from former personnel from that former system or some new ones that have come in these decades and a half. And this is best shown in these controversial articles 58, 59, 60, 61. It would be fairer, then, to say in Article 58 when it is said that the principal is elected by tendering time of 5 years with all the criteria to be met, means at least 15 years of working experience in performing police duties or at least 10 years at the workplace of police officers and laid down or acquired the personal police calling of the chief police advisor, that his photographs of the person to be selected were also placed. Because this is not about the competition but more about the internal competition that is scheduled for the selection of his deputy, assistant and police chiefs and police stations. It seems very doubtful to me in accordance with the Constitution or Article 44. The Constitution which speaks of availability to all citizens of public functions. Comparing it with the judiciary so with the judge's position, the Supreme Court president is a little tense. It seems to me, however, that the police are a different institution that is directly connected, connected to citizens and would not harm them even a little democratic ventilation from time to time, because often in such systems it is good that people who are not burdened with internal divisions, conflicts and such. That's what I say to organizations, so why should the police be the exception? Especially if we know that a public tender was held in 2008 when Mr Faber was elected and was then sought, it was not during the 2000-2003 period but in 2008 where it was sought to mean high professional preparation of the social, technical or natural direction, 4 years of work experience on relevant jobs, and outstanding results in the area of importance for the work of the state body and passed a professional exam. It seems to me that the elected chief of staff at the time was not a bad solution and that one of his main demands was to depolite the police. However, he seems to have gone too far in those depolitical requirements, so he himself was ultimately depolished and removed from the system. For this whole story of police depolitisation, he served this article in 38, where it is said that a police officer should not be a member of the political party, although it is later relativated and what if he is, and then he will not do these jobs but others, and will act politically in the ministry, which is fine or run for state and local elections. That's what I'm undermining just for thinking. So, if the Constitution gives the possibility, i.e. constitutional provision on active and passive voting law, it means that it is chosen and chosen here to be the right, the active right is limited by police officers. Whether he has a chance under certain conditions to run, so if he's chosen to step out of the police force. So he takes a vacation or an unpaid vacation, so in that month he's in the campaign. If he doesn't get elected, come back, if he gets elected, he gets out of the police force. So, I think we should correct that a little bit. So, everything in everything to bring an end. Here, maybe it's a good intention at work, maybe it's a process according to what we're building a state, and the state is building us. Only a little late in the process of depoliticalisation and professionalisation has started because there will remain doubts that it is a clean cementing of the existing found human structures, so no matter what arguments were taken as against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70024	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70025	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Pancic said that we are all children of communism. That's an incorrect claim. I don't remember the kind of caring, caring parenting that would spoil me with communism. For example, I couldn't enroll in either military school or any other kind of school where the state would finance because I didn't have a positive history as they say, while others had access everywhere they wanted but had a party book. The second you're saying one thought is that 99% of the staffing on the basis of obedience. Maybe it was at a time when you were a minister in that government when, for example, on a Bartholomew night, 180 directors and board members were swept away, you cleaned up. And the other thing, and the cleaners who even handled the HDZ, and you got rid of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70026	It's Mrs. Mirjana Feric-Vac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70027	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleges. The law we've already discussed for a few hours is at the very least the reason that, with all your competence here, he's a minister. This law has put into effect what is currently happening around this square and in the city of Zagreb and in other cities in order, in the name of what you are calling for, and that is, Chapter 23 of the European Union in each courteous country, that the minister attends this kind of debate under the law that does not have the European law, and you quote the permanent part of the chapter in the conditions of accession in Chapter 23. It is interesting that in many other things in which this chapter is both more extensive and more accurate and longer debates are not discussed in this House and there is no responsibility in this way that you wish to witness today. What matters to this law is more stuff. First of all, when you compare it with its articles, then you have one huge number of articles that are either the same with the existing law, so they are identical or articles that actually contain what has been solved by other laws. And one part of these laws is one and two and three and four and nine, ten, and all there until 105, 106 to 119, which is related to the Law on civil servants, etc. etc. So there are a number of articles left that you regulate differently and call for expertise in any case. That's good, and I say hello. Professionalism is especially important in sensitive services such as police services. But you're putting her in that function where she's good for a particular political option. Well, that's not good anymore. Therefore, the law has one of its recurring roles, a bill of law, so it has several elements that are ultimately also against constitutional Article 31 can be called upon to constitutional rights and very well asked, to question why it is derrogating, why it is touching the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens. What I also want to say is law, article 35, ladies and gentlemen. In this article, there is something more to be said about this article. Here it is, therefore, that various provisions in Article 35 have been added here, and this is about an amendment that is actually contrary to the criteria set out in Chapter 23. The European Union is not protected by it any more than there is personal data. Will it cause... Chapters we can hope it won't, that the amendments' things will still get better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that in the end, what has already been envisaged several times, the possibility of a third reading will be a serious subject of debate in the government, or the minister. I think that this decision on Article 38, so the party orientations of certain members and members of the police force, you put a good one bait in fact, because that's why on the one hand all the objections that have so far been that the police have been politicised, but as a citizen I have to ask myself the following, you're going to be looking for proof of the return of membership books etc., etc., or whatever you're going to do. I believe that you will not go into the right of members and members of the police force, to have their own opinion, and I hope that it is not... brainwashing, because that would be the consequence of what you're doing, and politicizing isn't whether citizens and citizens have an opinion. [[You don't understand.]] The law on civil servants is also very precise about it, and others some laws from... To the European Union. [[You don't understand.]] So private opinion and influence on the profession are two different things. Finally, the minister told us the other night that he was one of the founders of HDZ. Does this mean that he returned his book, does that mean that the HDZ as a political option was washed out of his head? What does that mean? Whom will you question, and who will question it, and in what way? What we expect is an orderly civil state, not a country in which people will be called for their party membership and their private opinion. Here, you've made a few suggestions on the selection of directors, etc. You did not reduce the impact of politics, you did not reduce the fact that politics will decide this, and now 5 years ahead. This is ultimately irresponsible, and no courteous European government would do so. As for other alignments with other laws, in two places you mention, in one place you mention maternity and in one place you actually mention things about the Law on Gender Equality. That's all you have in law to say about the difference in police, that's not enough. My personal experience with the police is very limited, in the sense that I have learned that police are a helper and friend of citizens and citizens, and that it acts as such. And all these criticisms I believe that police officers and police officers will not take as criticisms addressed to them, because there is a procedure for them when they receive criticism, but for those who pass the laws that they too must comply with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70028	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70029	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine says the law has a recurring role to play. I think it's an incorrect quote from a colleague, precisely because this law wants to answer the question whether the specificities of the police profession are sufficiently recognized, and thus the position of police officers in the system of the state administration, estimating the fact that police employees should have specific and physical, as well as the mental capacity to do difficult and demanding work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70030	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70031	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since most of the time they've talked about this law, they've spoken to colleagues and colleagues on this side, conditionally on the other side, I'm going to have a different approach, so I'd say we finally got this bill, why? Well, because the Police Act is one of the oldest and longest-ever laws this House has passed. So it's been working for more than 10 years. The main feature of the law is that, in a certain way, police reform has been drawn up and trasited in a police force with basic principles in terms of the creation of a modern police force, which is suited to a democratic society. We had one amendment and an addition to the law in 2008, and when many were passed, and the minister himself was already talking about the need for a new law, since time does its part, but a few more laws have been passed that have been touched and intertwined with the Police Act, and I think it is also necessary to pass this new law. This also contributes to the new demands and challenges facing our society, the approach to the European Union, the borders, the fight against all forms of crime, corruption, and not to list any further. All of this, all of this actually points to the need to pass a new law. With the creation and adoption of the reform strategy of the human potential management system, the interior ministry for the period 2009 to 2011, the interior minister has actually taken over the obligation to regulate the equal status of police officers in a manner consistent with European Union standards. In this bill of law that provides for structural changes to the police organisation, resulting in the need for reform of the system, police management, which is to recognise a demanding job. I think the promoters and those at the Ministry of the Interior who were working on making a new Police Law well looked at what it was and how the police functioned yesterday, such as or what the police are in the coming period and what it is tomorrow at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union. What has been discussed very much over the past period, which is the depoliticalization of the police. So something similar to that in EU countries. So I think that this proposal provides to a good extent, which is that the Director of the Police, therefore from the Director, of the lower police officers, is to be selected by public tender, but also this law provides that, before calling the competition, it is possible to fill the position of officials through an internal ad. The vacancy of senior police officers and the deputy and assistant director, chief of police administration and station chiefs shall be announced mainly through an internal ad, and, if not available, a public competition. All this says that after clearly developed conditions and criteria for admission to police service, one such proposal will increasingly guarantee that the police system will be increasingly driven by the profession, and less and less politics. And that's what I think is very important, and that's what we actually get by this law. This bill regulates the basics of the police organisation into three hierarchical levels – the Head of Police, Police Administration and Police Station as well as the structure of the Security Police. What I believe is very well solved by this proposal, which is progressing in the police service. So each official clearly recognizes the possibilities of his personal career development based on the system of progress through police calls. Finally, I do not owe, so I will, of course, support this bill and because it is one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. The need to take measures has been established and contains everything so the police can be more effective and independent. That's why I'm going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70032	Thank you. We have replicas. First, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70033	My dear colleague Rebic, I purposely raised the line precisely because I think we can agree that we finally got the law. That's exactly what I want to talk about, and that's where I fully agree with you. I just don't agree with the previous part of the story, which is that we could have gotten that law a long time ago because I'm going to remind you that the amendment to the law has already been made once, but not what you said, means about the Law on Police Powers. It's a whole other thing. Once we had an amendment to the law that only changed one word to the Chief Police Director. And right then in 2008, the public tender was actually chosen by the Director of the Police, that's one thing. And secondly, that provision also stands in the old police law, does not change significantly. And what is also important is not a condition for the closure of Chapter 23. I listened neatly to Mr. Secretary of State on the 24th, so on 23rd, how well I understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70034	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70035	Thank you. Well, my colleague I'm staying, so we're actually in agreement, we agree that this is the oldest and longest law, we agree that it's necessary to pass a new law we agree that, therefore, there are a number of good ones. What we disagree on is that it will no longer be possible to seek mandates at the disposal of no matter what option is in power but will not be revolutionary methods but will actually be and we only disagree that there will be no ministers who will say that all assistants have to put mandates on the table on Monday. So that's what we disagree on. And I think this law, unlike the last one, is much better regulated than it was in the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70036	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70037	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mr. Rebic basically mentioned everything this law passed, but I'd like to point out that there are some things you forgot to say. You forgot to say that in this law there is no longer the possibility of being the only political resemblance that you are the Doctor of the Union of Communists or the SDP, so that it is the only reference through a working internship to be the Chief of Police of Split from 2000 to 2001 and that with such inexperience for a year you become Director of Police. It's no longer defined by this law, and it's impossible. It was impossible then, but anything is possible in the party, miracles happen in the party. Two thousand officers can be fired through the game. The damage caused by this and for which no one was responsible is a billion kuna from the state budget paid under the collective contract. A hundred and over a hundred employees without a public tender. And it does not say in this law that those who were against the coat of arms, against the flag and against the independence of the Republic of Croatia could be such high officials in the Police Department. It's not in this law anymore. This law prevents such action, and this law certainly does not allow those who have caused such damage at any time to be in the service of the State. Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70038	Answer, Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70039	Well, I'm well-remembered by my colleague Djakic, so who still doesn't remember the police officers in Mark's square when the government came and threw them out of the service without any criteria. What I believe is very good at this law is therefore progressing in the profession. So, where everything is going to be transparent, every cop who enters the service will know in what way and how he can make progress. So there are a number of reasons why this law should be supported and I think all these reasons that we listen to on the other side are mostly about how five years are going to be because they're like this. But those five years are professional people who have come through the contest and who will certainly do their job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70040	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Biserka Vranic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law on police is somehow passed quickly and pushed into the procedure in a very fast and simple way. I think that day is one reason for us to think that this is how we're going to get through something or speed up something. In this case, MPs have given too much attention to some of the perhaps even irrelevant issues that are regulated by this law that means membership in a political party, the way of appointment, and I think that we as a country that has already gone on for some 20 years should finally understand that not all citizens are obsessed with politics and that it is not so important for any state or any official to be a member of that political party to any option. In fact, people want their existence to want their job and four times, and that's exactly why they're getting into some political parties because they feel insecure and think if they're not in a particular party they're not going to be anywhere. So I think it's a completely insignificant thing and it should get rid of some kind of democratic procedure and one polite way and the development of our democracy. What I'm really worried about, in this situation, we rarely even mentioned the rights of our police officers that they have, what opportunities they have and what we guarantee them so that they can do their job properly. In fact, since the law was introduced by some kind of quick or short procedure somewhere in early February, so-called. The task force, including representatives of police employees, and the working group also participated in the drafting of a draft Law on Police on which it gave a positive opinion. Afterwards, the bill went back to the government and the government decided by unilateral decision to delete a part of the provision from the bill, which primarily refers to provisions relating to and regulating the issue of severance allowances for retirement or any other job. Since so far we have also received a bill in which the severances are not regulated, I am interested in how you will regulate these severances and whether this will in any way affect the adoption of this law, since the unions of police officers insist on discussing severances in this law. I don't think it's acceptable to interpret the provisions on severances as well as the provisions relating to severances in collective contracts for civil servants and subsistences. In fact, we can't compare really police officers to officials in the state and other administration because it's a very different job specific and it's far more serious than we think. I believe that police officers deserve that the issue of their severances is regulated by this regulation precisely because of the specificity of the position of police officers and that their labour rights, obligations and powers could be regulated in this quality way. This is the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and the Law on the Police and on Police Officers who are already limited to the number of rights that other citizens have. Even guaranteed by the Constitution, however, police officers do not have it. These laws, which I have mentioned, mean the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and the Law on Police Officers, are placed in a much more unfavourable position than the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they are obliged to apply police powers at any time and act outside of working hours, and are also obliged to carry out tasks and carry out jobs in unfavourable working hours. At night, on Sundays on tour and on unfavourable weather conditions from -30 to +40. This way of working also requires us to regulate different police officers' rights than other employees in state and public institutions, because I believe that an unsatisfactory officer or officer in any hierarchy cannot be a guarantee of the security of the entire state. If a police officer has failed to realise and exercise his labour rights and the rights that he is allowed by law or intended for other countries, I think it is very dangerous for us citizens in general and for our system. I therefore urge this law to return to the process, to organise a meeting with police unions and to define this area and this issue by either this law or some other law, but to exclusively refer to police officers and people working in the police. And that's the only thing that security guarantee is that we're going to do something more quality than we have right now, and that can guarantee that the future that's ahead of us is safe because the people who take care of it have guaranteed their human and labour rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70042	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70043	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the ministry. First, I'm going to discuss this part with my colleagues who were sending a message but I think it's also about the law. In 2000, I specifically became Chief of Police. They say it's political likeness. I have to say that there's one very important detail which is that all those who think it's a joyous job, I'm happy to leave it to him and I'll be very pleased to feel what it feels like to be a cop and to be in that function. So, like we did in '91. No one has asked for the experience of commanding a unit in the war, so you can simply go from what is far more important, and that is the result. So we could take reviews of the work of the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration for 2000 and then for 2001, 2002 and 2003 while I was head of police. Now to be specific, it's very important to me. Imagine if I were to say here a number of games with what I'm seriously opposed to and with reports and everything, which is ours and yours. It's very dangerous. Don't do that. I keep saying we're talking about a police system that has to stand up for handling things no matter who's running the police at that point. Here's the 1992 data for the 387 murders, if we're gonna play with numbers. In 2002, 73. You've just been instructed 101 so today's 49, it's for 2009, now it's grown so we don't have to look forward to it or that game should be used. I don't think those numbers are good. What's also important is a constant invitation actually to some things that were in 2000. At the time, the minister asked for the state to mean ministerial assistants to resign. You see, it really won't be further that way because it's regulated by the Law on the Handover of Authorities. So absolutely all the assistant ministers translated into state secretaries today are resigning and moving from these places because they are political responsibilities. So, I don't think the questions should be opened anymore in the police department. It was one of the steps that was taken in depoliticization. Also, as I've always liked to talk numbers since '96. the year until the end of '99. In 7051, an employee of the MUP left the system, and contrary to a government regulation prohibiting any reception, 7235 received them. This means during the period from the end of the war operations to the moment when we had the situation in 2000 that there were 30977 employees of which 23254 authorized or in the translation of police officers. 31.10.2003. 26213 employees of which 20123 police officers. And that was in line with the reform and the goal of reducing the number of police officers in relation to the number of inhabitants, and I will tell you that in 2004, when HDZ took over the government's guidelines and decisions the same thing, the same intention: to reduce the number of police officers compared to the number of residents. Therefore, nothing new has happened here. On 6 August 2001, 3985 employees were given a solution to make available, of which 1541 were deployed to vacated jobs in the MUP. Since 2444, 233 have retired, 133 have been transferred, and 1893 service has ceased, so over the cancellation period, severance payment has been paid, which in 10 years has been cca 40,000 kuna. What's important is that in the commission's work that brought back some of the 154 officers, they were sent back. What's also very important, out of 2065 people who worked with primary school in the MUP, I repeat with primary school, in 2003 there were 928, so many about what criteria were made whether someone could be a police officer or not because the condition was minimally high school. It wasn't done. Today is today 1.3. is named Ivo Matic as chief of police administration in Vukovar, here is a concrete example. That means, here I am reading, his professional cookbook has graduated from a high school for physical culture. That's what we're talking about, connecting the story of high professional training, calling and the ability to do business. That is what it means to respect the openness of the system to situations where neither the Director of USKOK nor Mladen Bajić, nor anyone from the Judicial Academy, no one from the Supreme Court, no one from the judiciary, no one from organised crime, no customs administration, no one in the police's leading positions under this law, because it only takes 15 years to be in police. Not even those who were with the military police, so there's not a single provision on similar business. I think it's very important that in a law that's serious for this country it does it slowly. That's why I was saying that we could do it when Minister Karamarko was welcomed by all the MPs here with these very intentions to change the law in a positive direction. We're doing it fast today. We've already got about 50 amendments. Instead of accepting the intention, we really are in favor of the law, but we are doing it in a way that is necessary. Let's talk and we'll come to a solution. What is very important to me, it is already highlighted about the measures of secret data collection, which I must say is a step back, it should have been resolved, merged or the Law on police powers along with this law and in that section, we must do it for the sake of the citizens. The issue of the National Security Strategy. It is currently being debated, not adopted in the Croatian Parliament, it should be the basis for passing the law. In our case, we will rather have the adoption of the Law on Police before we discuss the National Security Strategy and we will be in a position to be one of the few countries that listens to the dictatorship of the European Union rather than listen to a strategy that I am sure would give much better solutions and probably give a solution to the Law on Police which is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What's to end, I call you once again, let's try to talk about this law in a way that he, not to go into third reading but to realize that the weather of this many amendments is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70044	Thank you. We have a correction. Mr. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70045	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The inaccuracy of colleagues in Ostojic is that there were visible results in your mandate. This is absolutely incorrect because in a year's time, no results in the Split-Dalmatia police administration have been achieved, that's one thing. But you have achieved that you have fired 2,000 police officers, 2000 and some police officers for no real reason, without fulfilling the collective agreement and caused the Republic of Croatia damage of over a million kunas. It's a fact that's undeniable and you're least invited to speak... A billion kuna damage. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you are at least invited to comment on any present-day chief who has been appointed since you have come to the Chief of Police of Split-Dalmatia and the Director of Police without a day of work in the profession. Since you only had one in your résumé that you were a councilman of the SKH SDP in the City Council of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70046	Correction Mr. Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70047	Well, just so it doesn't stay unclear. A colleague, Ostojic, told the new chief of police at Vukovar-Srijemska. Chief, the new head of the Vukovar-Srijem Police Department has been in police since the Homeland War. So, all the time he's at the police station so he doesn't have any inadequate expertise. He has professional equipment but he is a participant of the Homeland War and from, all the time, the whole period is in the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70048	We have one replica, Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70049	Dear counterpart Ostojic, then the question of internships, police internships before being appointed to a certain high duty or executive duty is, for example, the current top professional and Minister Tomislav Karamarko in '93. Head of the largest Zagreb Police Administration appointed without a day of police training. A similar matter after being appointed to political office, we are talking about the head of the National Security Office was also appointed director of the Anti-Intelligence Agency without having spent days in the agency. So the question of knowledge, experience and possibilities and results is different here. The basic thing that we all want together with today's debate is that I would like to see our officers freely, openly, professionally doing their work unburdened by any political pressure because it is the only way that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their trust in the system will be greater. Then the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will feel the confidence that someone can protect them in such a way that this kind of politicisation here today only speaks in a political dictionary and shows that the police are politicised. It's the only way to get professionals to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70050	Thank you. Answer Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70051	Comrade Dragovan, you're right when you're actually pointing to the fact that there are double criteria for appointing. I'm still absolutely committed to respecting the time it was, but I'm not going to explain much in that part. I think I'll do it again without insulting the new Chief of Police in Vukovar. I just said, as an example, that a man is absolutely by being in the police, and that there is no professional training is why not that person as a person, but as an example, I am saying that the advantage must be given to the openness of a system in which you satisfy in particular all the conditions prescribed under the law. By the way, I'm the chief police advisor. I hope no one questions that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70052	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70053	I would prefer that we prescribe our laws, and the other we bring to the Croatian Parliament for Croatian citizens, because of the Republic of Croatia, not because someone ordered us from Brussels. I'd really like that. According to the Secretary of State, given to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on 7 January, the European Commission's instructions on how to define the Law on Police should be laid down, the deadline for this to be adopted and subsequently sent to the parliamentary procedure by 27 January. A similar thing we already had with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I really don't intend to tie myself up with chains, but I certainly wouldn't accept that kind of ultimatum. Why? Because I think that all justice in such a way as to pressure or demand from the European Union is really questioning how our journey to the European Union will end for the simple reason that perhaps the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not like to see it that way. I would also like to point out the question of depoliticalisation, the professionalisation that we all keep talking about, and the fact is, unfortunately, you have confirmed this by calling for the urgency of the procedure when voting this law, where it stands as one of the criteria for closing chapter 23, the need to take measures to improve the efficiency and independence of the police, including depolitisation, and increased professionalism has been identified. I didn't really think that the Croatian police, i.e. to tell the management of the police department in Croatia, are dividing them from the police officers who are doing their duty on the street today and who are having major problems these days, that they are so politicised. But since you wrote it yourself, justifying the urgency that it is politicised, inefficient and not dependent on politics. By doing so, I bring really good intentions under suspicion. For example, a new head of the Zadar Police Administration was appointed on Wednesday. Even though I'm a member of HDZ, I'm a political person, which is now on his word that I trust him. But the man said it. New Chief of Police of Zadar, named yesterday. He says from the post of chief becomes... Police Minister of the Interior Karamarko, I thought it was done by the chief police director appointed him chief of police administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the man says, even though I'm a HDZ member, I'm a political person. Now I'm this apolitical person, and now everyone should trust me. That appointment from yesterday's Chief of Police. I don't have any problems about professionalism, work, internship, etc. Indeed. But let's not set certain criteria. In this law you put that a member of the political party cannot be in the system. That's what you propose, and yesterday you appoint a law in the procedure, you name a man who publicly says he's a member of a political party. What does that mean? Therefore, it is a matter of intent. Secondly, I think the ban on political party membership is against constitutionals as far as police officers are concerned. I'll remind you it's been in effect three months since November of '91. until March of '92. in the year when the regulation passed it to prohibit membership under the Internal Affairs Act, and afterwards, after 3 months because it was challenged by the constitutionality of the ban on party membership in police, for the reason it is a civil organisation, not a military. Now that I've mentioned a military and civil organization, putting in a title, or in dual terms, can be a dubious act, as a basic and unique criterion for a certain type of advancement, I don't think it's good. We're taking pictures of a military story, and I don't think that's good. I absolutely agreed with the minister, when he publicly said in his inaugural speech that progress in the service must depend on professional preparation, work results, years of internships, professional and social competences, and where it is really difficult to become a police manager, a professional, a real police manager, but also difficult for that police manager. I'd like us to really put the system together to make it look that way, but unfortunately, here's the example of yesterday, it's denying us. There's a denial, and what can be done is to deny us. We didn't put it, Minister, he was talking about depoliticization. What I can do to him. Secondly, the same minister also mentioned one thing, which is that the permanent staff changes in the police management at the level of the administration, the directorship, and the ministry, have consistently shown in the last 15 years that we have not changed and built a new system, we have already changed people in an untransparent manner, and with a huge impact of different political structures and interest groups. Since becoming a minister, at least three rounds of change at the leadership level have been made. At least three laps. And that's at a very high level in the police department's office, from the police UskoK, to the appointment, to the replacement. And we are talking about that we should have expertise, continuity in a particular leadership position, and that same minister who now proposes this law, who otherwise calls Croatian citizens Indians, who do not want to come to the Croatian Parliament that chose him, and this is the first time he has been elected to all the duties he has dealt with in the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament, at least in the Croatian Parliament, because so far he has been on all the duties he has been discreetly appointed, without any choice. He has neither the desire nor the will to come to defend an important law, it does not mean that I have something against both the Secretary of State and his associates who are here, however, but I think it is important that he and his authority and the announcements in some way take the whole story seriously about this law, and that I am not saying that his legal obligation was to defend the report, the minister's report, and sometimes it wasn't. And I probably don't know where he is, playing cowboys, I don't know what to say. And in the end, I'd like to repeat one thing, which I said in the debate on behalf of the club. I don't think it's good that this kind of law is passed overnight, breaks over the knee, no wider political debate, because it really was enough time for this to be passed in a regular procedure, because the fact that the law is being broken in this way, regardless of the letters coming from Brussels, I think that these letters should be ignored a little bit, and turn to more Croatian citizens and to us here in Croatia, so think about what's better for us, and not what the officials in Brussels write to us and think it's that way. That a certain political consensus should be sought, because this is a matter in which not only the rights, obligations, modes and functioning of the system are regulated, but also how this system works for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I don't think this is a good way to go, and I think it's gonna break an important law that really won't have a longer period of application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70054	Thank you. We've got corrections. The first is Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70055	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is an incorrect claim that the Commissioner, my chief of police administration of Zadar, has said in a statement that he is a member of the political party, but you have drawn from the context as well as journalists throughout the text writes quite differently, and it is clearly said that the man said he was a member of the party, but today his party is the only police and is professionally committed only to the police. That's what it says, if you read it right. Why are you fooling the public again?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70056	Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70057	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Dragovan said the police were politicized and ineffective. That's incorrect. Well, we heard from the report a short time ago, and here's a colleague, Djakic, mentioned today statistics that contribute to the shifts, hence the effects and work of the police. So we stand up for professional, independent, and, of course, professional police, and professional equipment covered by police, that's absolute. But it seems to me that somehow you're politicizing a dear colleague, because when someone of yours is mentioned in the context of a possible misdemeanor, then it's politicized. It's political... The press conferences are being called, and then it's being said ours is the best, ours is infallible. [[You don't understand.]] Well, we're not fans of some football club to yell at is our best. Let the institutions do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70058	Thank you. We also have one replica, Mr. Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70059	... colleague Dragovan how you didn't actually notice that the whole law was actually prepared to speak in the future. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] It means that things like that can't happen, and everything that happens right now, that's all this cementing that's going to be done right now, is about it. As your colleague misquotes you, thinking that you're talking about Minister Karamark being a member of the HDZ, so that today the MUP is his party, you're talking about the new chief of police in Zadar, Mr. Emperor, as far as I know. So in that part, I don't think there's a dispute with one of my additions, which is that no one was admitted to the police in 2000 to 2003. So no one's employed, they were all cops who were admitted before 2000. So for every result and everything else we can talk about, we can talk about the same people who were also admitted to the police and the others in it and did their job, normally with a note that 250 were replaced in 2004 by executive duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70060	Answer, Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70061	Well, my colleague Stojić really doesn't pose a problem with someone's membership in any political party. That's what I said. And that's why I don't think it should be put into law. And I mentioned this for a simple reason, you put it outside the law, and then you have a different situation. I don't have a problem with that. And I believe that membership is absolutely the right of every single citizen and in the police it should not be. One thing is political activity, another running for elections, etc., I don't think that's appropriate. But it's also something to say here when we're being accused that what we're saying is that the police are unprofessional, ineffective. You see, in the light of the law, the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the secretary of state, wrote the following: The reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, counterpart Milinkovic, as one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23, the need to take measures to improve the effectiveness and independence of the police including depolitisation and increased professionalism has been established. Well, that's why you wrote it yourself, so that means it's different for me. That she's not depolitized, that she's not professional, that she's not independent when you write that you should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70062	Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70063	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Dragovan hurt Article 214. In his reply to the replica, he referred to me for soliciting the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And the other thing, I need to clarify to you fellow Dragovan, is one thing ineffectiveness, something called ineffective, and another intention to improve efficiency. That's two different ideas. Of course, we must always strive to improve efficiency in every area and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70064	No injured Rules of Procedure, since the replicas, no warnings, but no injured Rules of Procedure, could share not only on this but also on the other hand. So we don't want any warnings, that's the ultimate measure. So the replicas are gone, of course the replica is about someone's debate, but often it goes the other way. We haven't bothered that yet, although it's really illogical, but that's how it is. Let's move on. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70065	Here's a quick answer to Mr. Dragovan since he called on me why he's going through an emergency procedure. I would just say that I did say that on the Committee on Internal Policy and I said that the debate there was really good where we could get from all the board members. I repeat, Chapter 24 is closed. It's the home chapter for the police. If there were any of those problems you're talking about, if the police had been politicized, the unprofessional would not have closed Chapter 24. I'm also going to warn you that the Ministry of the Interior has also been monitored by the OSS. The OSCE monitoring stopped in 2006 as the best confirmation that the police had been depolitised at the time. I'm not saying that it can't always be better, I'm not saying that every MIP leadership should not seek to make the police more effective, to be more professional, to be an even better service to citizens, but that's not how what you read about it doesn't come out of it. In Chapter 23, it is a recommendation that it would be good for the closure of Chapter 23 to pass the Police Act on that date that you said on 11 February in the Parliament. I cannot declare on behalf of the promoters here whether there will be a third reading, or a second reading since it goes according to an emergency procedure, but certainly through these amendments which will be submitted by the Government and which have been invested by individual clubs and representatives certainly has room to improve certain things that I and the Committee have said that we have noticed that these things could be better arranged. But I'm saying, here I'm really asking you not to mess with my statement. I claim that the Croatian police would not have closed Chapter 24 if it were politicised and not professional enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70066	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Goran Heffer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70067	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is a new proposal for the Police Act, which, at least from what Mr. Secretary of State said, should improve some things. It's basically the meaning of every new law, so it improves certain things. But I must say that this proposal seems to make even steps backwards, and that is how we see it from a number of amendments that are attached here and that is largely precisely from the ruling set. So, by the representatives of the ruling team. Hence, it is strange to call something improvement, and so many remarks on that side. But here I'm going to point out just one step, maybe someone's going to take a step, not to me personally, so I'm going to refer to him the most. So, according to the current law still in force until this new vote is appointed by the members, pardoned by the chief of police administrations was defined in Article 14, so I will read that the Minister of Interior, on a proposal from the Director, appoints and resolves the Chief of Police and another item before submitting the proposal, the Director will request the opinion of the County Assembly or the Assembly of the City of Zagreb. With this new bill, the appointment of the Chief of Police is defined in Article 61, in which I will read this 2nd paragraph, which the Deputy and Assistant Director and the Chief of Police Administration shall appoint and resolve on a proposal from the Director-General, etc. So, this next item on asking for a previous opinion is no longer available. So he's being left out of a new bill. Someone might find this irrelevant, but I have to say it doesn't matter, and I'm going to try to explain why I don't consider him irrelevant and so I have to say it's really a step back. Why? First of all, I am also the president of the SDP Councilors' Club in Vukovar-Srijem County who has 20% of the members of the County Assembly and I have been able to discuss therefore the opinion of the previous principle not now newly appointed and I know that this is one of the important topics, but this time it is neglected. I must also say that, in the previous law, it was therefore still not clearly defined in force whether there is any binding matter relating to the appointment, or whether it is a previous opinion, as it is said before the appointment it is necessary to request an opinion, whether it was in any form binding on the Director or Minister. To assume it wasn't since it wasn't highlighted. But whatever it is, I have to say that it had its own meaning and not so little meaning. First of all, there was one political importance since it was a body which is the main representative body in the unit of the regional self-government, so the County Assembly or the City of Zagreb Assembly. On the other hand, there was also some social importance, since in the county congregations there were democratically elected presidents of several hundred thousand people from individual counties. In my county of Vukovar-Srijem, it is more than 200 thousand people and it is a county assembly with 45 council members. Therefore, this includes, in a certain way, the opinion of these representatives, and therefore the inhabitants who choose them. I also have to say a certain dimension of the civil influence of the unnecessarily controlled which was spoken of here. So it's not just surveillance, it's in a way the influence of a councilman who's not from the police profession, which is why it's a civilian influence. I believe that this is not bad especially in a society called democratic society and where certain democratic processes are carried out in all such matters, as well as in the election of police administration chiefs. That's why I think it's precisely what gave the chiefs of police administration certain credibility. How important that is now a matter of personal judgment. So somehow giving the opinion of the previous I never understood, and I believe not a good part of the people who are not involved in police work exclusively as some professionally justified act, but above all as some kind of socially justified somehow socially beneficial, so I would say a socially responsible act precisely because of the fact that in this way one responsibility is placed on the head of the police department in the field of regional self-government units in which he co-ordinates police work. In this bill of law, I said this is completely omitted. So, in a certain way, the leading police officer rises from such a democratically elected representative body and becomes I would say to the full of the ministers or directors of the chamber. How good that is, how bad that is, I repeat my personal judgments. I personally think it's not so good and it's one unnecessary abandonment. And I repeat that in a certain way, it loses the credibility of the chief of police administration among the citizens first and foremost, whether you want to admit it or not. I'm surprised that people in the police don't understand or want to understand or understand it too well, so in a certain way, they're suggesting what they're saying to themselves about the attitude of people in the MUP. Now, why did such a single proposal, i.e. such changes, or abandoning one of these things that I repeat in my own mind, not necessarily be binding but of some importance. The reasons can be different, I really don't want to speculate about them, but I'm going to highlight a few details that might be interesting. It is difficult to take the impression that such changes in the law and the rejection of this previous opinion have affected the appointment of police chiefs in the City of Zagreb and in 2008 and 2009, so during the term of office both the previous interior minister and the current interior minister. So these are some day-to-day political reasons. It is not good that the law that is so important, and let me remind you of the debate of MP Djurdja Adlesic, who said it was a great power that should be under civilian supervision and under parliamentary supervision. So I don't think political reasons should affect the bill this day. These are, of course, only the most exposed cases in which there should be no distraction from the mind that there have been such cases in other counties, even in my county. The previous chief of police administration was appointed in March 2010, and his previous opinion was discussed in May 2010 and he received a positive opinion and that is not a problem at all. The problem is, it's just that this law-related thing isn't respected. And here it was apostrophysed so two days ago it was appointed the new chief of police administration and I doubt at all believe that I am sure it was a top professional, professionally trained person, a person with great experience in police work. And that is why I do not understand why the previous opinion was not requested when it was a session of the County Assembly on February 24th. Why is the law in force not respected? There, former Justice Minister Mrs. Lovrin called her colleague Dragovan to discuss the Zadar case, the law has not yet come into force, but we have a law that is valid, which is not respected for what reason no one knows. And only in the end one sentence. I believe that such proposals for legislative provisions that define the appointments of people, which should build on the ground one cooperation with citizens, with administrative authorities, and with a greater purpose and more effective fight against all forms of crime and not just one simple repression against the public, will not contribute to the overall reputation of the police. And I'm sorry that this is proposed for the simple reason why someone doesn't want to, so I'd say I'd bother with one opinion of the regional self-government representative body. What's so controversial about that, I guess that's the only thing that the Proposer knows about. Definitely this will not be well accepted, nor do I think it is useful for the Croatian police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70068	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Heffer just said what I was saying in his previous replica, so illegal politicization of officials and employees at the MUP, in which he clearly decides the political resemblance that is more like, just as he doesn't have. Here's an example from my county where the chief is moving, after a year going to another county of Slavonia where the county gave a positive opinion last year on the new head of the MUP, but here after a year we will have the opportunity to choose the new head of the MUP and the question is, if this law is passed, the County Assembly won't have to consider a proposal for the new head of the MUP. In fact, there's something else I have to say, Mr. Buconjic, about this illegal politicization. I received a fax from a gentleman living in the district of Antunovac, Ivanovac, Ernestinovo, Laslovo, who writes that through familiarity and political similarities, it is clearly about HDZ, at the Police Academy in Zagreb, you personally received a lot or relatively large number of young people. Others who were other political orientations or their fathers or their fathers could not have been accepted even though they met all the conditions, and those who were admitted also have those who did not meet the conditions. I can hand this over to you so you can read it so I don't move on, since this is a replica, so I don't spread it any further. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70070	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70071	Thank you very much. Well, in response, I'll limit myself to the first part, the one that's been directed to me. The fact is that at the Ministry of the Interior I would say even aware that this makes sense, that is, by the old law still valid that it made sense. Because in the case I mentioned as the most exposed in the case of the City of Zagreb in this second appointment in 2009, when there was only one day of difference. A day earlier he was appointed, or a day later after the requested opinion of the City of Zagreb Assembly, the chief of police administration was appointed. It was subsequently said, therefore, after a reaction from the City of Zagreb Assembly that it was temporarily distributed to the given opinion. So they're aware in the ministry that it's a certain legal procedure. It is precisely why I do not understand why this legal procedure has not been followed and I have still said myself in some situations I do not respect, although I am convinced that it would not change the opinion of the proposal, so the congregation would not be in 99, if I did not say 100% of the cases or thought that it would change it. And for this very reason, I find it unclear to accept this fact that for almost one single opinion the representative body of the regional self-government units can only in principle contribute to the credibility of the appointment of these people who are key people on the ground in terms of police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70072	Thank you. And another replica, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70073	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Heffer, when you called me, I have to say that you were saying that in some election there was no previous consent of the County Assembly, which is an obligation under the current law, and you quoted me as saying that I had thrown my colleague Dragovana that the law had not yet come into force because he questioned the choice of a police leader who was a member, or was a member of a political party or is now. It's totally legal at this point and it can be. The moment the law proposed here is passed in this Croatian Parliament, it, like all other employees or police officers, will have to decide whether to retain or remain a member of the party. So also those currently in HDZ and those in the SDP who are in the HDZ or in any political party will have to decide what they want. So, in no way did my remark refer to any agreement of the County Assembly that you were talking about but merely that it was called the appointment of one person who had been made quite transparently and in accordance with the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70074	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70075	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, you're back here now just confirmed that I've said well. Namely, the subject of my debate was not a given official at all. I said you called your colleague Dragovana who was talking about the appointment of the chief who made a political statement. You said the law hasn't come into force yet. I just said that the former minister... Allow me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That the former justice minister, who knows and respects the laws, at least I suppose, at the same time confirms that what has been prescribed by law is the current law that applies to the new law, which is not respected, not good practice. That's exactly what I'm It is prescribed that an earlier opinion of Article 14 of the current law be sought until the new one has been declared, and I have listed several cases where this has not been done and I have asked the question for what reason. Madam Minister just, the former minister, I apologize, has just confirmed that the matter is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70076	Once a minister, always a minister. Mr. Miljenko Doric is not here. Mr. Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70077	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Here's the controversy that's still come up, and I'd talk a little calming tone, and I'd say I see these laws that were passed, the law of the police talking about the structure of the police. Here I was fortunate and honored to be a police officer during the most difficult period of the creation of the Republic of Croatia, so in the first half of the '90s during the war and I must say that in some ways I am saddened to hear the mention of the expert preparing officers as many as were found. However, I can say that as a commander on the front I was happy then, and the police held the front when UNPROFOR came, that anyone came to me to be a police officer that was willing to take on that honorable duty. Also, back in the '90s, we were police officers for a week, public order guards, crime fighters, second week we were soldiers, third week we were special forces. I've seen all these laws that have been passed in these last 20 years in that light. Thus, in Croatian society it could not be equal to the law and equal to the police structure in the 1990s when defending sovereignty. I was also happy when two thousand years of police law was passed, when the profession was separated from the ministry, when the ministry had a administrative post and the Police Directorate was given an operational post of police management. I'm saying this because I and this new law see exactly in that light, which is that one new step towards the team more than in 2009 was passed laws, jumping laws that, in fact, define in a new way the role of police. In 2009, a Law on Police Affairs and Powers was also passed, which more clearly defined the role of police, which is their task under these new circumstances that these laws put before the police. What I see through this new law is, in fact, that more transparently defines the possibility of advancement, rewarding, evaluation, transfer, education, improvement, health-psychological assistance as well as other rights from working-law relations. And in any case, I think it's a good law, and I also allow that this is not an ideal law that should not be changed, or that will not need to be changed when conditions are created for it. Therefore, I believe that this is a law that has been passed in accordance with the time we live in and that is why I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70078	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70079	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's fellow Shantek, what you're saying and in the depoliticism religion, so that's what I think there's no one who doesn't support it. And that, apart from these serious grudges that we have said, there should be, except even that there are no such grudges, so other than a good normative, there must be a good political will that there really is agreement in the ruling authorities, which is the most important thing to be depolitised by the police to the full extent of the measures. But it's not good. Here's where the little and the polemics between my colleague Lovrin and my colleagues, Heffer. Namely, if the government introduces people who are members of a party before the law itself, it is truly legal so far allowed. And it's possible by law. But then, people, citizens won't believe that the government really has good intentions when, by emergency procedure, we pass this law and a few days before people who are politically engaged are brought in. So we can't act on that system that another former colleague of ours said here, Chesic Royce, who used to bail, pitted. So now we're on the bus, we're locking the door, from now on the police will be depolitized. Now that we've filled the police system with our own personnel. Then citizens don't perceive it. Even if those people were, I don't doubt professionalism, and nobody said that. But then people don't believe you really mean it. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70080	Mr. Shantek's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70081	My colleague Antičević Marinović, I read this article that you are calling on and I didn't understand it that way in the sense that you are referring to. The man said he used to be a member of the HDZ. It's his right under the current law. However, that his party is police and that he is a professional who will deal exclusively with police work. But let us remember another occasion. Let's remember a year ago what it was when the current president talked about his insurance. Then he sought out certain persons because they were prone to the option. This way, it has just been avoided that this situation is repeated, that someone tends to the left option, the right option. They're all cops who need to work in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70082	Also a replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70083	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You were talking about wartimes. And some days we talked outside the assembly about how at the time of the war, so we carried out the tasks myself in the Special Police Department, and you in all segments of the police and how complex we were, and how we were doing well, and for the benefit of Croatia. It's true that when it was meant to be depoliticized. That's what you say here at this time, I always say I won't say it directly, but a few months so it'll be a year before the election. And it is true that this closed-lock situation of Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović's bus is actually the fact that it is. Which is why, if it is chapter 23, the fulfilment of the European Union's criteria and we know for seven years and this government has already existed for seven years, we know more than seven years. Why didn't you do it three years ago? Two years? Four years? I really don't get it. Thus, doubts about good faith and good intentions are truly objective, indeed possible, and they exist as expressed in the discussion of many colleagues here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70084	Answer Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70085	Dear Mr. President, if we remember correctly the process of depolitisation of the police began in 2001 with the adoption of the Police Law and the separation of the Ministry of Police from the MUP. Therefore, whether the process is complete. Any of us who participates in public life, who deals with politics, those who will be in power will say that those who will be in opposition will say that they are not. And it's a process that will last as long as the Parliament is and as long as there's talk about the police. However, the results of the police work report are evident. And it's visible, anyone who wants to be objective and honest that there's a shift and it's important and drastic in the work of the police in professionalization, and this law is just about to make these key things for a cop's life, and that's his ability to make professional progress that he knows if he does, if he has these assessments that he has opportunities and not that it depends on someone's political will, and I think that's exactly what this law does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70086	Thank you. And another replica, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70087	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shantek, you said in your debate that you were not pleased when someone mentioned the professional training of members, i.e. employees of the Ministry of the Interior, clearly thinking about the police. And I'm so glad you said that, 'cause I wasn't happy to hear that either. When some here quoted the professional equipment, you remembered in your debate the 1990s and 1990s respectively, when young people stopped, went to the police and stopped to defend the Croatian homeland. But you gave me a chance to mention something else that I don't know if today those on the right hand side, or on the left hand side of the assembly, have admitted. Who canceled school, who canceled schooling for a cop? So why are we here today calling each other if someone put someone in the adult high school education program for the occupation of police officers? Instead of having a regular school, we have a regular school, and this law allows and agrees with you and I support the adoption of this law, precisely in the part in which the professional advancement of education and other things should be done by professional police officers. And colleague Shantek, what we're about to have. These days no political, or party people are appointed, but longtime professionals and members of the Ministry of Interior, Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70088	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70089	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're discussing the Bill of Police proposal. This law during the public debate, he raised a certain storm and interest in it, because if it is to believe all these discussions, then the Croatian police are waiting for a bright future. Over the past 20 years, we have brought down this thesis that prevailed before the sovereign Croatia, that the Croats will not go to the police. And today's debate shows that we have a lot of candidates for certain functions which is good, so there's a great deal of interest. There's a mention of depoliticization and this law is saying something about it. I am sure that in 2031 today in the Croatian police, which will then be European, there will be no police officer who will be a member of any party. It's been used a lot of times lately to make someone want to cement something, the term cementing was used. That's not true. There's no way to close the bus door. It's something called transformation. The public tender will elect a police director and executive officers and the police will be completely depolitised once the entire police school has gone from high school to retirement, one police officer to the next. I can, maybe it's not a good example, but it's certainly instructive. Ten years ago in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a high representative imposed the Police Act. And there's that law in force. The public competition elects police directors. Very often it happens that in one county, when a tender is opened, you do not have any candidates who can meet all the conditions of a public tender, most often it is, he has an internship in the police department, he has everything, he has professional training, etc., but there he says he has never been on a member of any party, especially not on any list, etc. I think what the High Representative did there, that it is also a European practice, and that it is waiting for us here, and that what I just said in 20 years there will be no police officer who will be a member of any political party and it will be completely, completely normal. There have also been criticisms that the law is flawed because it does not provide for independent civilian surveillance, since a key word in the appointment of citizens in that body has a minister of internal affairs, which is not true, because the minister appoints members for civilian oversight only on a proposal for civil society. It is important here to note that the task of this body is not to monitor the covert monitoring, nor to monitor the system, but rather to be a body for complaints against citizens, for the conduct of the police. Civil surveillance consists of three members, two of whom come from the ranks of citizens and one from the ranks of the profession. I will also mention how the law proposes a new way of appointing and resolving police officers. Since I believe that this law, in accordance with the highest standards of the European Union, will enable further development and depolitisation of the police, will contribute to the quality of the work of police officers, I will support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70090	I have to write these lines quickly, because I'm going to forget who they reported. Here's four replicas for this exhibit. First is Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70091	Comrade Shantek, first of all, I think it's good for a reason. Wolfie, here. Indeed an apology, but it was about a colleague of Shantek's, because I'm sorry to say he can't be a police manager under this law and I'm warning you of that incarceration. That's what's not good, and what's not appreciated,... And we don't realize that this openness wouldn't actually contribute to the fact that we can choose people who, in the end, chose to be cops, to be congratulated on, and what absolutely important experience is. [[You don't understand.]] But we can't close the system just here. As for education and everything else, first of all, I think it's positive, this debate shows when replicas are raised, not the correcters of the wrong quote, precisely that we want to talk about it. That's why I feel bad when we talk about a public debate, she wasn't there. So the situation that something was posted on the Internet of the MUP isn't enough when at the board's session a few days ago we had 15 amendments that the government gave, which we now see are being translated into a few that are there. It's an important law, that's what it's all about. So for that reason, I'm sure it wouldn't be a problem because that interest in making as high-quality law as it is for the police. And let's not close the system, it's a call. That's what he's talking about. It is not about that, and I am really glad that a large number of people in Croatia today want to be a police officer. Not a functioner. Over how much... And you can correct me, Mr. Secretary of State, I think thousands of people are interested in training as a police officer. [[You don't understand.]] They'll be executives in 15 years, but it's important that we finally have a situation that they want to be and do that job. And if I'm wrong, you correct me, but I know that thousands are in a certain position interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70092	Mr. Dragan Vukic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70093	Thank you very much. I think in the police system that it's one system that shouldn't have paratroopers from election to election. A political person may be a minister, and not necessarily, and all the people in the system what I just said should decide to be their life call, to be cops, to be educated, trained, and to have the system so designed that they can make progress in their ministry. And not every four years that we have an earthquake and then we're always rebuilding the system and we're never gonna make it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70094	Also a replica, Mr. Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70095	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vukic. You mentioned civilian surveillance, so we're not talking about civilian surveillance here at all. This law does not say anything about civilian surveillance, but mentions a committee that, in the event of citizens' observations, is in session and decides on it. What is the problem with this committee? First of all, there are two civilians, one in the line of work. As soon as one in the line of work is not a civilian. The other thing is, these two civilians are appointed ministers. There were a lot of better suggestions to name it the Committee I don't know about human rights, to be a member of the Office of the Police Attorney and what, let me have a little digression, these days go, yesterday was the film by Jiri Menzel of the famous Czech director who got Oscar, these days there was also an Oscar declaration for the film "Strepidated Trains". This reminds me of strictly controlled civilians. So let's give room for some serious civilian surveillance, and then that's a permanent police function. We don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we don't have, we't have, we don't have, we't have, we don't have, we't have, we't have, we't have, we't have, we't have, we't have, we't So let's not mention civilian surveillance at all because he's not spoken of in this law. The Board of Appeals is something quite different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70096	Answer, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70097	It is true that the minister appoints those two persons, but the minister's decision is also subject to the public court. A smart minister will always listen to what two people will take. No one's stopping him from calling and competing to get as big a base as he can get from that 2. So I don't see anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70098	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70099	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vukic, you said nicely that we knocked down that the Croats won't go to the police. I would like to say, and I agree absolutely with you, but I also want to say again that the Croats couldn't ever go to the police, military school, etc. because, on the basis of years of follow-up, they eventually found to him that he was potentially weaker or that he was not the right height. Here, that's how it happened. But the same from my colleague Shanteka's debate is evident that the Croats could have gone to the police at some point and they were very good at setting themselves up, one day they were... police officers, the second day on the battlefield, and the third day specials. This shows that they could answer, but it is also said that circumstances have changed. Today, those who are on the other side of the law are used with high-tech technologies and with various achievements, and surely in that part should be monitored both with expertise and with quality. And it is always necessary to improve the system in both professional terms and qualitatively, and I believe that this law will be a contribution in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70100	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70101	counterpart Milinkovic, Croatians headed to the police to defend the state in the '90s, the police were the first to stand up for the state. In the 2000s, Croatian police were guarding whether they were guarding and now the Croatian state. We are preparing this law for the police, the Croatian Police in the EU, means the European police, the European Croatian Police. And I hope what you said never happens again is that someone doing flat-tubs can't be a cop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70102	Or if that's the reason it has to be determined that his flat soles We have another replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. [[Invasion: But that's why he's a doctor, he gives confirmation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, I'd rather answer Milinkovic's reply to this replica, but here I have Mr Vukic talking about this and really today are a flat tabular reason that you can't go to the police, but sometimes someone who doesn't have heights comes in, but God, my relationships are relationships. I wanted to talk to you about civilian surveillance, so my replica concerns you with the civilian surveillance of the police. The Committee for Civil Oversight has two civilians to be decided by the minister and one professional representative. That commission decides how you said it yourself, according to the citizens' statements. I think it would be much better and much more correct if it were a preventative body. So, don't make it to the citizens' show. So this commission works so that it has supervision that will prevent abuse for which citizens would complain. That's the thing. And not when the damage comes, then you complain, and we'll do something about it as a commission. It's over then, it's like a meal and then a denial. Demantius is 5% mealtime. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70104	Thank you. Mr. Vukic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70105	Here I can tell Mr. Grubisic that all chance is that it will be as it is written, that tomorrow we will vote the law, so if it just turns out to be a problem in the law, then smart people will change it over time. But I think it's a good solution with those three people who will receive complaints and I don't think it should be changed, but if what you're saying and showing certain doubts is a bad solution, then my God is not the Holy Scriptures Police Act that can't be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70106	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. He's gone. So the secretary of state, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, will address it in a final fashion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70107	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I just think that there have been a lot of comments that are understandable because here, above all, there is interest and local self-government, the interest of civil society but the complete Croatian public to pass a law that will ensure that the police are primarily the public service of all citizens who will be able to protect their interests effectively, efficiently and professionally, which is order, peace and security. With this law, we were just about to achieve that goal. I said it in one of the committee discussions, there's no perfect and there's no ideal law, so we didn't have that illusion that we were going to make an ideal and perfect bill. This law that we've been trying to create a legal framework for the police to really be, I'm saying be, don't become, would I admit that it isn't now? She's a public service now, but of course she can be better, and that was our idea of guidance. Do not depolitise, not professionalise because the police had been depolized so far, it was also professional, it was effective at EU countries but we wanted to give a legal framework to become an even better public service. I'd just say one thing, that Mr. Ostojić knows but here's the information for you. It's impossible for this law itself to cement any condition. After this law, the Government should adopt a regulation on the internal structure, after which a regulation on the internal order or systemisation regulation should be adopted and new solutions should then be issued for 26 thousand employees of the MUP. I assure you it's a job that will last because it's realistic to expect both complaints and complaints about solutions so it's certainly one months of hard work ahead of us, so there's no talking about some cementing. First of all, we wanted to create a clean framework for the transformation of police into a quality public service of citizens. We'll consider all the amendments. I believe that part of these amendments can be adopted and with these amendments I am sure that we will get a good quality law that will be a good right framework for the police to really be our legal public service at our service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70108	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow at 12 o'clock, so please also clubs and so on. That's why we get organized and ready. And tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we continue this session with a agenda point that's in the consolidated agenda under point 10. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the HRTV Programme Council. Thank you and good night, good night. And the final draft of the police law was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 710, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the HNS Club of Representatives, HSU, which reads: "On the final draft law on police, P.Z. No. 710 will be held the third reading." Would the applicant's representative like to make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70110	The conclusion cannot be accepted because the adoption of the Police Act was a criterion for closing Chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70111	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the HNS Club, the HSU, which seems to be not accepted by the Government, so let's get involved and vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Score. This proposal was not accepted, it received 27 votes for, 1 abstention and 76 against. The government submitted amendments and they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The review of the other amendments is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic, please. Amendment 1 is an integral part of the proposal, it is accepted. 2. Amendment of the Independent Representatives Club to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70112	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70113	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 3. Amendment of Mr Ratko Gajica to Article 5(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70114	The amendment is not accepted since the same substance has been resolved by the previously adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70115	Mr. Gaitza. You're giving up. The amendment has been withdrawn. 4th Amendment of the Independent Representatives Club to Article 5(4) also.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70116	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that anyone may appeal to the Advocate General if he considers that the illegal or irregular work of state bodies, local and regional (regional) authorities and bodies with public authority are at risk or in violation of his constitutional or legal rights. In connection with that provision, it is incompatible with the fact that a representative of the Ombudsman's Office is taking part in the work of the committee in the ministry to discuss complaints against natural and legal persons since the same case may be discussed by the Advocate General. In addition, the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Macedonia stipulates that the Ombudsman is not acting in matters under administrative or other procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70117	Thank you. Anybody from the Independent Representatives Club? There isn't. I am voting on this proposal for an amendment that the Government does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of the same club of Independent Representatives to Article 5(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70118	The amendment was not accepted. In accordance with the Internal Design Regulation and the Internal Affairs Regulation of the Ministry of the Interior in the Police Administration, establishment units have been established, i.e. the jobs of police officers for the work under the performances and complaints of natural and legal persons. The role of the commission is to resolve in the second instance by representations of legal or natural persons and is to be established as a single second-degree body in the ministry responsible for all police administrations, as well as the establishment units of the ministry in its headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70119	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment because there's no representative here? Who's in favor of Amendment 5 that the government doesn't accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS and HSU to Article 17(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70120	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the Law on Pension Insurance Rights and Working Military Persons and Authorised Officials in a special way provides for pension insurance rights and for police officers, and the law on the training of insurance with an increased duration is prescribed by insurance workers, especially those employed for the health and employment of harmful jobs relating to individual police officers, such as pilots. The Regulation on the jobs of police officers, which shall determine the jobs of police officers in which the training of insurance workers is made difficult by conditions of work and the nature of the performance of the work of the account with an increased duration. In order to ensure uniform harmonisation of the provisions of Article 17(3), it is prescribed that the introduction of the above-mentioned regulation, which will in a unique way prescribe the jobs of police officers with reduced working conditions, which shall account for an increased duration. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council and the European Parliament and of the Council within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as with Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 17(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 17(1) thereof. Therefore, this Regulation is an act of the leg of a specialis which regulates the issues provided for and by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70121	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70122	Thank you, Mr. President. We're still saying that it's inappropriate to regulate this matter by law here in this case by regulation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70123	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 7 of which is an integral part of the draft law and that is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 21. 8, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on Article 23(3), is also an integral part of the bill. 9, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, in Article 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70124	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70125	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 10, Representatives of Ratko Gajica in Article 47(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70126	The amendment shall be accepted in part in the section in which it is proposed that words be added in person in Article 47(1), paragraph 6. In the section proposed to add point 8 of Article 47(1), which reads as follows: it shall not be legally convicted of a criminal offence, since this issue has been resolved by the adopted amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70127	Okay. It's acceptable in this government explanation. So the amendment in that second part is withdrawing. 11, Governments of the Republic of Croatia, that is, an integral part of the proposal in Article 47. 12, Representative Emil Tomljanović, Article 49
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70128	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70129	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 13, Representative Tanja Vrbat, in Article 49(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70130	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The final draft law provides for conditions for police entry, and the Internal Regulation of the Ministry of Interior may also prescribe other conditions for admission to a given post. Furthermore, when launching a public tender for the completion of a given job, it is possible to indicate that candidates who know the language and the letter of a particular national minority who have so far appeared to be a particular skill or knowledge as a specific priority in employment will have the advantage.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70131	Thank you. Mrs. Tanya Wrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70132	Thank you. Well, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment because I think it's the implementation of the Constitution and the constitutional law. I believe that members and employees at all levels of organisational forms in the police must know at least a few of them language and a letter of the national minority that is officially in the area where they work. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70133	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 14 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Article 49
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70134	The amendment is not accepted since this issue has been resolved by the next amendment of the National Minority Representatives Club and the SDSS Representatives Club, Amendment 15 has been resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70135	Thank you. Mr Furio Radin on behalf of the club, the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70136	If I understand this amendment correctly, it is not accepted because it accepts the formulation that comes after.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70138	Okay. I would only ask the proposings in general to bear in mind that it is committees and when it comes to committees should have a little more sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70139	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? I must proceed to request a vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. National Minority Representatives' Club and the SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70140	The amendment is accepted in a way that reads: "Article 49(4) adds paragraph 5, which reads: In the ministry, members of national minorities will be provided with representation in full of police officers' posts, taking due account of proportionality in accordance with Article 22(2) of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70141	National Minority and SDSS Representatives' Club, please. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70142	Thank you. This formulation is acceptable to us, but we expect this representation of members of the national minorities to be further edited and by the general acts of the Ministry of the Interior. Namely, why do I say that? Because your latest reports and indicators of this very thing about national minorities' representation say that we still have a great sub-representation in jobs where national minorities should be admitted, both by vertical and horizontal means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70143	Thank you. This amendment has been accepted in the formulation presented by the State Secretary, and in the second part it is withdrawn. Right? Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić 16th Amendment to Article 61(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70144	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70145	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 17th Amendment of Representative Emil Tomljanovic to Article 64(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70146	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70147	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70148	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70149	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 19th of the same representative, Emil Tomljanović, in Article 72.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70150	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70151	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 20th Amendment of Representative Tanja Vrbat to Article 87
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70152	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law stipulates that programmes for specialisation, professional training, training and police training at the proposal of the Police Academy shall be adopted by the Director-General. These programmes identify the needs of organising foreign language courses, taking into account the needs and languages of national minorities. The applicant therefore considers that there is no need to regulate this issue in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70153	Thank you. Mrs. Tanya Wrbat, please. He's pulling and accepting this. Okay. 21st Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 93(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70154	The amendment is not accepted. The disciplinary and criminal responsibility of civil servants is different forms of responsibility. They are determined in front of different bodies. For them, various penalties are provided for, different bodies are responsible for the initiation of the procedure, and the purpose of the disciplinary and criminal proceedings is different, i.e. they are protected by different social values. In view of the fact that the indictments are drawn up by different bodies, the Head of State, or the State's Attorney's Office, in relation to infringements which are described in different legal terms in the catalogue of violations of official duty or the Criminal Law, in practice, there is almost no identity of the claim of the facts and of the legal qualification to be imposed on the civil servant. Discipline and criminal proceedings lead to different rules. Different means of proof may be used in these procedures, and according to the principle of free assessment of evidence, the competent authorities may draw different conclusions on the decisive facts. Administrative and judicial practices have an uncontested uniform view that decisions in criminal proceedings cannot be or are of an impact on the determination of disciplinary responsibility of civil servants, nor can they be the basis for the renewal of the disciplinary procedure, and more decisions of the Constitutional Court contribute to this. One is the US-7469/2010 of 25 August and the judgment of the Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70155	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr Furio Radin. In fact, the Committee, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in Article 93(3), which the Government does not accept. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22nd Amendment of Representative Emil Tomljanović to Article 110(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70156	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70157	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 23rd Amendment of MPs also Emil Tomljanovic to Article 113(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70158	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70159	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 24 of the same representative Emil Tomljanovic to Article 114(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70160	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70161	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the HNS and HSU to Article 117(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70162	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-03-0.u70163	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And the 26th Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final proposal of the Police Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 29 against, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, this, although we still have 20 points of the agenda that we have failed, would have concluded the 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament, we have worked 7 weeks. When the 23rd session will be announced in time, however certainly there will be no next week, perhaps, we will see how it will continue. Here. We'd like you to rest for a while, and then we'll welcome the ready and the orni for the 23rd session. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced, we are moving on to - a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the HRTV Programme Council. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The HRTV Act. You received the proposal by mail. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media and became an integral part of the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the HRTV Programme Council. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The chairman of the board, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
