ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66807	The esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have before us amendments to the Real Estate Tax Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the Real Estate Tax Act constitute a legal basis for the creation of informational preconditions in order to relieve the tax administration in the process of determining the sales of real estate tax. On the basis of the amendments and additions in question, it will be accessible to create information solutions which would, on the basis of data generation, signal the obligation, for example, to compensate the property tax in cases in which the taxpayer was exempt from paying taxes or, for example, by adopting indictments in cases where the taxpayer did not report the creation of a tax liability on real estate and the like. This will also allow for a faster solution to property tax fraud, i.e. a significant reduction in the processing time of the case in view of the information solutions made on the basis of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Real Estate Tax Act. Our biggest problems were that we didn't generate data and that we had to go out on most of the cases. It's so slowed down I'm developing a real estate tax and with these changes we'll speed up this process by at least ten times. Other significant changes have also been identified: property value assessment procedures with the aim of speeding up the tax identification process itself are defined as the creation of a tax liability in the acquisition of foreign property and in the acquisition of maturity. There are fines for non-reporting tax returns, legal provisions have been harmonised regarding the papers of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the distinction of the life and life support contract, more specifically provisions on the exemption from the payment of real estate tax in the first real estate settlement of the housing issue, simplification of proceedings. Also, eradicating is difficult to prove freedoms for the economic community and for this implementation of the law there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66808	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, Mr. Representative, Chairman of the Committee, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At its 69th session held on 27 January 2011, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real estate Tax with the final proposal of the law as a parent body. The Committee supported the proposal to adopt this law by emergency procedure, and supported the above reasons for the adoption of this law, in particular by shortening the process of adopting a solution for real estate tax. This proposal for a law provided for in Article 13 that the appeal against the adoption of a solution under this law would not delay the enforcement. Understanding that there was also a situation where some, those addressed and speculated and filed complaints only to delay the payment of taxes, but by understanding and objective situations, the Committee discussed whether the tax solution or the appeal should be delayed or not delaying the execution of the tax collection. The opinion was, however, to be put into the situation of the citizens and the situation of all those buying real estate and having the right to appeal, and that if they filed a complaint that the collection would be delayed, and this would have a significant impact and a positive impact on the state administration, the tax administration would have faster solutions, to solve complaints and appeal procedures. Therefore, on the basis of such a debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget has decided unanimously to propose the adoption of this law, but also to amend Article 13, Articles 13, Articles 14, 15 and 16 shall be deleted and Articles 13, 14 and 15 shall be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66810	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the board? Yeah. Mrs. Gordana Sobol, president of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66811	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Taxation. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative presented the main reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Real Estate Tax Act, which has been in force since '97. A year. The amendments relate to the creation of information preconditions with the aim of discharging the tax administration, as well as to removing the possibility of double interpretation that occurred in the practical application of the law. The most significant change relates to the provisions governing the tax base, the tax exemption for the purchase of first real estate, and the moment of implementation of the solution. The members and members of the committee are also familiar with the prosecutor's initiative for gender equality, which pointed out the need for the amendment and addition of this Act to be brought into line with the Law on Gender Equality by equalising the rights of the marriage and the extramarital community. The applicant's representative informed the board members and members that the government is considering this issue and plans to resolve any amendment to this amendment to the amendment and the addition of the law, either by a new general tax law, which is in preparation by the end of June of this year, should be in the parliamentary procedure. In the debate that followed, the view was that any amendment and addition of any law had the opportunity to bring it into line with the Law on Gender Equality, which was adopted in the Assembly as an organic law. Members and members of the board unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Taxation, and they also unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion. Supporting the Ombudsman's initiative on gender equality, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with preparing a proposal for a General Tax Law in line with the Law on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66812	Thank you. Is there any more interest in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66813	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real estate Taxation with the final draft law. The fact is that the law was arranged long ago in 1997. It has been changed twice in 2000 and 2002 and it is almost certain that it is high time that and in this area amendments to the laws and additions of the Law on Real Estate Tax are governed by all those things that have been shown in practice as irregularities and that the system is flowable, uniform and with very clear rules. And when we talk about tax, potential taxpayers, and especially when we talk about the state budget, in fact the budget makes more of a local unit tax, regional self-government participate together with the state budget, and that is one of the significant revenues in individual units of local and regional self-government. This proposal for a law, as also said in the introduction by the proposing representatives, provides a legal basis for the creation of information preconditions. This in other words means that finally, finally, this area will be informed, connected and created by a single database. The time of processing of applications and all the positive things resulting from amendments to the law on additions and the Law on Real Estate Taxation is shortened. In particular, our concern is reading this law and we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party believe that certain elements should be clarified or more precisely stated in the law. In particular, Article 4(3), which states that the Tax Administration lays down the basis of the real estate tax as the market value of the property as a rule in the acquisition document if the total amount of the compensation paid or paid by the acquirer is approximately equal to or can be achieved on the market. What does it mean to be approximately equal to the prices? Whether those prices are compared to, is that 5% difference, 10% difference 15% difference, plus or minus. We think that this concept is approximately equal to the prices and opens up the space of abuse, opens up a space of doubt, and we believe that we in the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Retired People think that the Tax Administration or the Proposer should define this concept far more clearly than is proposed in this bill. Furthermore, in Article 5(5), in fact, it is the same member, Article 4 but Article 5, paragraph 6, which states that the assessment of the market value of the property referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article shall be determined by the Tax Administration Officer on the basis of comparative data on the movement of market values and similar properties from approximately the same area and approximately at the same time. That's right. And it is certain that this information that the value data will be generated, it is certain that one database of values will be created for individual properties, for individual areas. That's for sure. However, whether these are parallel data generated through the Tax Administration Information System or related to other possible data. Is this the State Statistics Office, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or some other professional chamber. Due to our transparency in the Croatian People's Party club, Croatia's pensioners are of the view that this should be made more clear by the more questionable availability of this data to the future taxpayer. The potential taxpayers of real estate tax are, according to this proposal, only a tax officer is available to them. And finally, the taxpayer has no ability to object to the credibility of those comparative data because he doesn't know them. It is our view that, for reasons of transparency, public availability should, above all, give potential bonds of real estate tax the possibility to the public of these comparative data normally based on criteria, criteria that carry transparency. Furthermore, Article 9a, which speaks in the case of a real estate for which there is no parallel data under Article 9(6) of this Act, is neither concerned... the property referred to in Article 9(7) of this Act, the assessment of the market value of the property shall be carried out by an expert appointed by the head of the tax administration’s branch office. [[You don't understand.]] A very, very, very correct formulation can be said, but our question is what does an expert mean? Does she have to have certain qualifications? What conditions must this expert meet? What profession? Should I have a license? A professional exam? Membership in the professional chamber? We at the Croatian People's Party club, we consider that we should clarify or specify or define what a professional person means, because, for now, according to this proposal, it is the sole right of the head of the tax administration. And it definitely opens up the possibility of abuse, it definitely opens up the possibility of ambiguity and it definitely opens up the possibility of a tax payer's dissatisfaction. Second question, who pays that professional? The law doesn't say that. Does that professional person pay for the tax administration? Does the taxpayer pay it? Who's paying for it? Because by reading this article, logic tells if the head appoints that professional, then the tax administration should pay it. If that's the case, let's write it down. Just for the sake of clarity, just because of a clear attitude towards future taxpayers. And finally, in general, the Croatian People's Party club, as I said in the introduction, will support this bill, with the view of based on these remarks that we have on certain articles, with clarification or possible harmonisation of the law to resolve possible misunderstandings, or possible situations to the detriment of future taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66814	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66815	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's today before us, we've got some real estate tax changes here. The proposer firstly said that the amendments to this IRS would, above all, be easier to determine, i.e. the exact determination of the tax base, on the one hand. On the other hand, it will also allow taxpayers to in some way, i.e. tax administration officials no longer have the option or discretionary assessment to determine the market price which the tax base for... sales tax on real estate. [[You don't understand.]] I'd like to start by saying what the situation today is about... the real estate tax, meaning the applicable law. [[You don't understand.]] Otherwise, the tax base means to be determined as a market price, as a rule taken as a property acquisition document, but also leaves the possibility of the tax administration means that the tax administration employee, the administrative reference person himself, determines the tax base. And what was going on? It happened next. Administrative referents working in tax administration offices mean, above all, that they are referenced, have completed medium professional equipment, and above all they do not have the necessary knowledge to correctly determine the market price for a particular real estate, because they are mainly referenced as having completed the meaning of gymnasium, economic school or other orientation. On the other hand, there was, of course, an existence, and I think that it was also known to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, there was always the possibility of a deal with the taxpayers, so there was a fertile soil for corruption, and in many cases it was just that the referents in the premises negotiated the price of a particular property, which ultimately resulted in a lower amount of tax for both the country and, on the other hand, led to a more unfavourable position for other taxpayers who did not have that option. The proposer’s opening statement was, in some ways, heard, wanted to avoid it, because the Ministry of Finance was familiar with that very fact, that this was happening, means that those poor, those who had no certain ties in the tax administration had to pay taxes, while those who had these relationships mostly politically, their tax base was generally agreed upon. However, we need to ask ourselves whether these changes that are now ahead of us, whether they will in some way prevent the same things from happening in the tax administration, or whether they still mean that certain citizens are discriminated against, and that on the other hand, income from the title of the property tax precisely for the reasons I said would not be the way it should be if an objective assessment of the property tax was actually carried out, i.e. the market price. I see here first of all, the changes are related to the tax base itself, it is now clearer than it was before, but also to the procedure itself, the procedure of the assessment being conducted in the tax administration's offices. And already here at first means the way, which is proposed, there's a place for me to continue to negotiate with taxpayers and to further reduce... Real estate tax. [[You don't understand.]] Because it is said in a number of cases of real estate traffic, if the total amount of compensation paid or paid by the acquirer is approximately equal to or can be achieved on the market. The tax base will be determined from the acquisition document as in the cases prescribed, so I don't read any further. What does that mean to me? This amount roughly, I think that term is very stretching. It could be 5%, it could be 10%, it could be 20%, so I think that these amendments to the law should in any case have been written exactly and precisely that the deviation from the market price could be 10%, 5%, and this is how it still means leaving room for tax bonds to be negotiated and that again in some way taxpayers who do not have the impact will pay taxes at market price, and these others, once again, by agreement with the IRS officers. It also means this is actually the way in which the Tax Administration would determine a property return tax which is actually valid in the rule, and then the exception of that says "if the amount is shown in... obtaining a smaller Tax Administration will assess the market value based on comparative data", it will carry out a special examination procedure which is prescribed both by the OPZ and the Real Estate Tax Act. But what I'm interested in right now, or not what I'm interested in, which I know, is that the IRS at this point, and the law means it will apply 8 days after the publication in "The People's Journal" actually has no instruments, i.e. it did not provide that comparative data so that it could in any way establish the tax base. We know that the OIB has not yet revived, although there are certain data that are in the Tax Administration, but these data that are not enough, they will make it more difficult to continue to cut the tax on real estate. And the question is, actually, when are they going to be able to publish the so-called. system solutions, i.e. solutions from a system where this system would actually generate and have all the information that would then be valid as the basis for the identification of real estate tax. I see the biggest problem here right now in the garret shop. We know that our situation in land books is extremely bad, that it does not match the situation in the cataster and the Tax Administration of this moment now if the taxpayer means acquires real estate, and the buyer knows that he is a taxpayer, at this point he cannot know whether someone owns the property if, for example, I will say from the town of Virovitica whether, I am Virovitičan, if someone has in another territory of Croatia, I do not know in Zagreb, in Hvar or anywhere in Croatia real estate, the Tax Administration has no information about it because it is not yet connected with Grutovnica. Eventually there's information maybe if the acquisition was so-called. Used real estate, but if it is about the acquisition of newly built real estate that is subject to VAT obligations, the Tax Administration has absolutely no information because it all goes past the Tax Administration, it automatically comes to Gruntovnica. So for this job and for what's listed here, I think the IRS is still not ready and it's going to take a long time to sort of get this data listed here to be found in the IRS. And the interest is certainly that these data are found as soon as possible so that the tax base rule can be established as soon as possible, and that means the tax which I have to say both the income and the state budget and the city budget and the municipalities where the property is located. And I'm going to make an observation here, in any case, the real estate tax should be exclusively the municipality's or city's income in the area of the property that is the subject of the purchase, not that the state here has 40% of the amount of that tax. Furthermore, this third case says in the smallest number of cases, so where there is no data at all from these comparative, tax administrations in that case should then, in fact, tax on the basis would evaluate the authorised person. My colleague Koračević mentioned it, and I'm asking the same question, who is this authorized person? I think the explicits in the law here should say that, in that case, the tax base will be determined by an authorised expert. So, the person who's an expert on it. We've got experts working, so they're working for the court. We could also work for the IRS right now. And the same thing that isn't mentioned here, and it has to be stated, who will ultimately bear the cost of this art? In my opinion, the tax authority should because the tax authority is the meaning that goes into this particular tax base procedure. But nothing in this bill is said here. We also see by this law that there have been a lot of changes in the acquisition of real estate, so tax exemption is actually about buying the first real estate. And I'm glad that no tax exemption was abolished for the reason that we know that amendments to the Income Tax Act abolished the first real estate exemption during last year, so in 2010, that relief means no longer exists. However, I am glad that the Realty Tax Act has actually made it easier to acquire the first real estate. But that doesn't mean that it has to be the first real estate, it can be the fifth, it's important that the taxpayer didn't use a relief until then and was not free from tax. And it's important that the taxpayer solves his living issue. This is, in fact, the fundamental difference between the relief that was prescribed by the Income Tax Act and this relief under the Real Estate Tax Act. Excuse me, I'm sick. I need some water. Now, about the application of Article 11a of tax exemptions, I am going back to what means the IRS has. Because here you see, here it means, even though the previous law also defined exactly how much a family member exists, there needs to be space to be a tax relief, here in fact, the Tax Administration will already face the problem, which is to say this in order to acquire the right to freedom, tax exemption, a citizen must substantiate, i.e. to give information that the citizen of those members of their family do not have abroad and abroad owned, co-ownership or joint property, and then say buildings, that's the apartment. That's exactly the problem I warned you about when I was talking about actually establishing a tax base. So at this point, the IRS has no record of who owns the property that means outside the area of jurisdiction of that municipal court, and I don't know how it's going to be handled. Probably just statements from parties, and I don't know how much we can trust it. Also what I would like to warn about and what I think is not logical to me, which means that tax exemption in case real estate is acquired and up to 400 square meters of land means total tax exemption, but if a citizen acquires a building land that is 600 square meters of land on which he intends to build real estate, in that case the difference between 400 to 600 will pay the sales tax on real estate. I don't think there's really any logical explanation to me and that that amount of 400 square meters should be worth in either case. I don't see why they should actually, why these surfaces are different. Next, that's it, yeah. What I wanted to say about the complaint is that the chairman of the Finance Committee has no real reason, i.e. it is not legally justified that the complaint does not have a suspension effect precisely because the General Tax Law stipulates that the appeal means delaying the execution of the tax solution, which determines the tax liability. This is a general provision that applies to all types of tax, and for these very reasons I think that this Article 13 should really be deleted because it is not only good that it is only for real estate tax, regardless of all the differences that are said to exist and that citizens may abuse that right, but it is not legally justified that the complaint does not delay the execution of that solution. And what I would still like to say in the end about the article of the old Law to be deleted, Article 13(1) point 3. The law, in that article, the current Law prescribed a tax exemption that applied to the brothers and sisters of their descendants, sons and sister-in-law, the leavers of the donor when on... the day of real estate if they lived with the leaver and the donor in the economic community at the time of building the building, acquiring other property, leaving the death and receiving the gift. The economic community, within the meaning of this Act, is considered to be a joint acquisition of income and property, as well as the availability of income and property. I don't think it's right to delete this tax exemption from the law precisely because we have a case where a life-support contract and the previous law and these amendments to the law say that, by virtue of a life-support contract, 5% of the income tax is reduced for each year, and here you have a situation where brothers and sisters, or their descendants, and the sons-in-laws living in a joint household with the leaver and earning the property together, eventually after the death of the leaver, will have to pay taxes on the property. I know it's kind of a tax administration problem to establish that economic community, but I don't think that's the reason for the tax exemption to be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66816	Thank you. There's a note. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, chairman of the Committee Zlatko Koračević, informs that the 36th session of the Committee on Regional Development, called for today on 2 February 2011, is cancelled at 14:00. Let's move on, let's move on, as far as clubs are concerned. Goran Maric on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66817	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Real estate tax with the Final Bill is visible that it will be generally supported, and it is no wonder that a very extensive debate has been carried out on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as a parent working body where it is also unanimously supported by the adoption of an emergency procedure, but also by this proposal for a law. And this is how this proposal was to be regulated and the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this proposal for a law on sales of real estate for several reasons. So why did it have to be arranged? Well, very often, he felt a lack of information connection in the tax administration. Very often, taxpayers were suspended, very often the tax administration was unjustly late in making a solution and in the process of making complaints, and very often they were suspended both by the tax administration and by the state but also by the taxpayers, and this was to be arranged in this way and this would certainly contribute to the urgency of the case, will speed up the process of making a solution, will speed up the collection process, and will speed up the procedure, the appeal procedure. We have also heard little remarks here that Article 4 as predicted by the Tax Administration will establish the basis of real estate tax as a market value of real estate, as a rule from the property acquisition document, but in a way that, if it is seen, it will be approximately equal to the prices that are achieved on the market... and there is a concern about manipulation and for possible bargaining with individual taxpayers. I think it's impossible, first of all, that we need to get an answer to what the market price is. There's a market price at all. It exists in theory but in practice you don't know which one is. There is no market price. The market price is the one that is contracted between the buyer and the seller, it is not known in advance. It is not that desirable price at which someone would like to sell real estate, nor is it a desirable price at which someone would like to buy real estate, it is the price that is achieved on the real estate market between the buyer and the seller. The fact that this contracted price can sometimes be entered in the correction that is not actually agreed. But that's why there's a price catalogue that'll see if there's too much deviation from some of the general movements on the market or not. Although the tax administration finds that it gives up too much then it will not be the basis of tax from the property acquisition document but rather from the price catalogue. The economic crisis has hit many parts of society, almost all but rarely the real estate market. The real estate market hit the most. For example, just a few examples per year of how many solutions were issued in 2006, 7, 8 years in Croatia and how many in 2009 and 10. In total, 257 thousand 179 were issued in 2007 and 2008. 244 thousand 318 solutions. TO almost halve this in 2009 and 2010 to 192 thousand and 128 thousand solutions in 2010. Unfortunately, the crisis felt the most about those who wanted to buy the property for the first time, and the number of taxpayers with a relief from buying the first real estate while moving in 2006 to 21,000, 2007. 21 thousand 670, in 2008, there were only 17 thousand and 16 solutions, and in 2009 there were only 16 solutions. 8 thousand 512 solutions for the purchase of the first property, and a relief for the purchase of the first property was issued in 2010 only 5 thousand 142 properties. This suggests the worst impact on the real estate market, and it is those who buy real estate for the first time. The HDZ Club supports this bill, but also stresses that some things need special attention and special attention, which is a deadline within which the Tax Administration should issue a solution. The deadline should be as short as possible and the IRS should bring solutions as soon as possible. The truth that it was once even unwarranted to wait too long and a half a year, two, three, for the IRS to bring real estate tax solutions. The assessment of the value of the property should be made with special attention. It is easy to say the market price in Zagreb is such. I read catalogs of real estate pasa, the market price in Zagreb in Maksimir so much, on Tresnjevci so large, in this part of the town in Zadar, in Sibenik such, but it is such a broad term, so many elements affect the value of the property. So let's just take an example of an apartment in one street in Zagreb, here's the beginning of the centre and then on the same street the apartment oscillates thousands of euros per metre square to 4 thousand euros per meter per square metre. Many elements affect the value of real estate and years of construction, and the size of the apartment, and the orderliness and maintenance of the apartment, but most recently, and what bothers most every citizen of the Republic of Croatia whether the property is registered or not. If the apartment is registered and the same value or unlisted it has a large difference of value on the market. Therefore, these matters should be taken care of when the IRS brings solutions to whether the apartment is listed or not. Because at a registered apartment, a customer can get a loan, and the unregistered one can't, like, 15 years ago, the customers didn't pay that much attention to whether they ate in a book apartment or not. And today, in fact, no one wants to buy an apartment that isn't registered anymore. And that's more of an impact on the value of real estate. What should be pointed out is that it would be desirable and good for the taxpayer but also for the IRS to specify all the essential elements of the purchase contract in the adoption of the IRS. Not just certain elements. Everything in the real estate description in the real estate contract should stand in the tax settlement. And so a cadastrian particle listed and a land-book cartridge and a description of real estate and address, a place all that it writes in the real estate contract, everything that tracks the real estate through its history. We pay particular attention to the need to pay particular attention to real estate tax. There is no excuse that the real estate tax is not 100% charged, because it is the tax that is the easiest to charge. It is commendable that it has been accepted because the Government's representative has already declared himself on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, this proposal provided that the taxpayer's complaint was not delaying the payment of the tax solution. However, this amendment will delay the payment and it is good that it has been accepted and it will greatly help and stimulate the Tax Administration to bring real estate tax solutions as quickly as possible, and thus the possibility of collection. For this reason, the HDZ club supports this bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66818	Thank you. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66819	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Clearly, this is not a harmless law. Because every tax law is a matter of law. However, you see what is interesting, for its representatives, the government was on 28 December 2010, that was the day when if I am not mistaken, the reconstructed government determined the meaning of Ivan Shuker, Deputy Prime Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, the clear secretary of state Mr. Mladne in the Ministry of Finance, Director of the Tax Administration of Mr. Maric, etc. It's on page one. However, as opportunities develop in the country, we see after this reshuffle of the government that, most importantly, it would have been the law that defended me to be a cynical Mr Milosevic, so that he could teach us how possible it is in an independent, democratic, free-minded, liberal Croatia, etc. get to 15 apartments and that sort of thing in a relatively short time. It may also be directed to defend those who, according to special laws under the unconstitutional article of the 16th Regulation, came to representative apartments in the nearest part of the city of Zagreb, I suppose elsewhere by the Republic of Croatia. What you should certainly do when you just mention that Shushkov rule by which the dignitaries, the generals, the officials acquired apartments, were to cancel the rule. Clearly, there is a need to undo the conversion and privatisation, but what goes public when it comes to these Suškov apartments is indeed what most citizens are disgusted with. Second. Which is the key to this law, although I'd rather talk more about that unconstitutional rule of former Minister Susak. The key to this law is primarily a good information assessment, it is good to get some average price once in one place and through such a form. It shall not, by discretionary decision or by the Tax Administration or the Witches or Prosecutors in certain debates of the Judges, etc. determines how much it's worth, so it can normally lavate from adversarial amounts in the same space to astronomical ones, and then the one that finds itself in the slow question is what it can prove by what it bought. Second. What's the key to the law? Article 11a literally states: "The property tax is not paid by citizens who, on the basis of a contract concluded in the sale, acquire the first real estate, apartment or house to solve their own housing issue if the following conditions are met cumulatively" clearly that they have Croatian citizenship, that a citizen of his family is a resident and resides in the address where the property is located. And now we get to the key point, that's this point third, that the property area depends on the number of members of the family of citizens don't cross the surface and now as follows, for one person up to 50 m2, for two persons 65, for three persons 80, four persons 90, etc., etc. Let's let go of how many taxes should be paid by those who received four, five times as many squares under special laws, but I think these amounts should be increased and even this amendment that the HDZ Club has sent to the parliamentary procedure to allow disabled persons to increase their amounts by 20% is at least correct. I personally believe that for all citizens you should increase your amounts, in one word the first real estate in all of your family, an individual should be freed from paying that tax, regardless of the size, but what you should do is check the way in which someone came to that money, how that money then came to that property through that money and so on. Why is it important, among other things, because this housing policy that was conducted in the early 1990s or late years simply did a huge injustice to Croatian citizens. They didn't get one until '90. Nothing, it started to divide into those who were in position in '90. During Tudjman, not to mention the rules now, and that may have continued until today. But today it should simply be audited every single one of my courts illegally assigned a social apartment that has been sold to special laws. And it starts if it's from the opposition and then go to power, generals, ministers, tycoons, etc. This law is the same thing that hasn't been misregulated, e.g. This Article 11 states that real estate tax is not paid by citizens who, on the basis of a contract concluded on the sale, acquire land within a building area of up to 600 square meters on which they will build a house for the resolution of their own housing issue, if the conditions that I have already mentioned are fulfilled cumulatively. But I also agree, you need to have an insight into who owns it and be careful that this law does not lead to that property tax being paid because as absurd as that may sound to someone else, that tax will simply ruin the poor. Why the poor thing? You have cases that because of the work of this or of that many have left to mention Lika so they live in Zagreb or Slavonia today and live here in Zagreb or islands and live in Split or Cicaria and live in Pula. There they have acquired some apartments in one way or another, and there they have some abandoned properties and if we start charging them, they will simply be left without either these properties or property that they later acquired. Secondly, I think it should be against that tax and because of one fact, that in Croatia over 90% of adult citizens own real estate. In one Germany, it may be a situation with 60% of adult citizens, in one Italy perhaps 55%, in England even less. So that socialism whatever it was, it made it possible through these social dwellings for citizens to solve their housing issues. And today we have this situation that we are in '91. In the years they shared 400 thousand social housing that had been built since the 1960s, in the 1970s. '90s. And these people, if they inherited some property in the area from which they came to some larger center, they could be out of one or the other overnight. Article 11c, real estate tax, I quote: "they do not pay citizens who, on the basis of a contract concluded on the sale, acquire newly built real estate in the part that makes up the value of land, amount for municipal land" etc., etc. The second question, let's say the state doesn't leave the 5% total to the local self-government unit. The tax is not some decisive item in the state budget. Let less be stolen, and then you can either commit yourself more to local self-government or leave it to the citizens. All in all, this law is clearly fine, but what needs to be simply reviewed are those specific laws based on which elites were privileged. Some of them got everything for nothing, and some of them got no blood to tell me what to do next day in these circumstances could get to the apartment. Secondly, when I talk about the first real estate, it should be completely free of the issue of housing. Look gentlemen, no one's going to build if they have a four-member family house, say 100 meters, that house will certainly be bigger. It turns out absurd, but the poor are building, the ones that need to be bought. Especially in those rural areas. And I think we should let people build, let them have, and we shouldn't just be afraid of them if they do, especially in these circumstances when we should start stimulating construction. In Croatia, no one will come from the side to run it. Look, the prime minister, two, three weeks ago, offered the Egyptians the construction of a railway from Rijeka to Zagreb, now we see what is there, a revolution or whatever it is. But clearly, Croatia cannot run either Tutankhamon or Ramzes II or III, nor Mubarak, Croatia can only run Croatian citizens and therefore should be left to Croatian citizens or to give or allow them to simply build. And that is why I advocate that citizens are free from paying that tax which is not crucial for the functioning of the state or local self-government if they acquire the first real estate, but understandably that everyone needs to be checked for money. I need to re-audit those Swiss regulations once again, and so on. Maximumly stimulating laws to encourage investment and think, not to play with this property tax. All in all, if it hadn't been for that arrangement by the 1990s, I'd say 90% of these 400,000 people who won the apartment in '91, the other in five, six, seven, eight thousand marks or I don't know the euro, which they already wouldn't have come to the apartment if they hadn't bought it that way. And finally, what I also think this country has to open up another question and finally solve the issue and these protected tenants because they too deserve to buy an apartment where they live for 40, 50 or 60 years. Our honors based on these unconstitutional regulations have come to grand apartments. And those who are in such or similar apartments 40, 50, 60 maybe even more years simply cannot solve their existential problem, so a man asks himself the question where is justice, justice, law, conscience, honesty, etc. etc. And all in all, I assume this law will be supported. We will vote, too, even though I once again think it would be a good idea to increase these restrictions to acquire the first real estate. There's nothing to be afraid of. Perhaps at the time of the collapse of construction, whether social or state-owned, whether local self-government was built, we would somehow launch this one economic activity such as the economy so that, indirectly through VAT, through the employment of people and everything else, we would get much more than through this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66820	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Caine claiming this law will ruin the poor. It's an incorrect allegation precisely because this law prescribes a tax base. In addition, it introduces tax exemption for the purchase of first real estate, because it is definitely with higher standards than is prescribed by the Rehabilitation Act. And ultimately exchanges and complements the moment of implementation of the solution in determining the sales tax of real estate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66822	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66823	Mr. President, I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Caine where he claimed that the apartments were only questionable and tax on those apartments, and their acquisition. For me, it is more questionable land in Barbariga and Dragoneri, which you, as the president of the Assembly, have turned from agricultural to construction and thus sold it along with your congregations. There, you should look at how much tax was paid and what land was and who assessed it by the Tax Administration then that land and how much land was earned on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66824	Correction Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66825	... where he says it's because of socialism that we have a lot of housing owned by citizens, etc., a lot of housing units. [[Specially enabled.]] That's absolutely incorrect. You know when the house sale bill was passed and who brought it, please. First, and the merit of socialism is also I want to tell you that our large number of citizens had to go abroad for various reasons because they couldn't get a job here or there for those reasons, so they went, worked, earned and built houses. Also interesting is your classification of the poor, so you say there's a house or a property there in Cicaria and an apartment in Pula. It doesn't seem to me like it's a category of poor people, and it doesn't worry much about how they pay back or pay their taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66826	The law was passed in '91. But the apartments were built by '91.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66827	On behalf of the national minority club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66828	Dear President, distinguished secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Taxes if what is being realized is stated at the very beginning that amendments create informational preconditions with a tendency to discharging the Tax Administration in the process of determining real estate tax. And secondly, a timely application of the creation of a tax on real estate tax will be resolved. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, we do not have reliable official information about real estate prices, although the real estate market is held at the heart of every national market. Statistical monitoring and regular publication of reliable information on real estate price developments should also be relevant for the Tax Administration. Therefore, already installing the tax administration's obligation to informically process real estate prices, to issue appropriate information which is still not until the end clear whether this information on the movement of the same in the country, and which is important for the citizens of the state and investors, will be available to all. But it is certainly important that these criteria determine the tax base for real estate tax so that it does not depend as so far on the will of the individual. It might be better and more transparent to regulate the law, if information on real estate prices was collected, monitored and processed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, as is done by the Ministry of Agriculture for the Movement of the Prices of Agricultural Products. In fact, from the IRS, many are despised, there is always a question of the accuracy and transparency of the reported data, and certainly and then it is also a matter of determining the tax base. The timely reporting of the creation of a tax base, i.e. the tax liability of real estate tax, is now trying to resolve the public notary’s obligations to verify signatures on sales or acquisition documents, to deliver one copy to the Tax Administration today and using the identification number. Normally, it is another option that courts and other public legal authorities are obliged to submit any change in property ownership in land books, or in official records. If we add that even the most frequent person delivers that information that she was buying, or selling, I'm afraid that we won't relieve the tax administration, even though I'm afraid there's going to be a duplication, not to mention multiple applications will be about one case, which in this case says there won't be a discharge, but above all that the tax administration could be buried. I don't think that's going to solve the problem of real estate traffic very often and without paying sales taxes. It is strange that we have not reached for what Slovenia has, but also for many European countries, that there is simply no enrolment in land books, without a tax administration clause on paid real estate tax. I'm saying the fact is that it's been abolished by the Constitutional Court, but I think if today many European countries have it, it's the simplest way and there would be no poisoning and there would certainly be a problem of paying real estate taxes. We will support all these changes, but I think it could and should have been done better and if it really wanted to be relieved then it should have been applied, and very often we are calling for European countries, this model, because it is the safest, there is no copy, there is no clause there that the sales tax has been paid. Thank you very much. And once again, I stress, statistical monitoring for the national market is important. I would like to ask whether it will be, meaning that the data that will be processed statistically in the tax administration will be made available to the public, or whether it is the beginning of the creation of statistics on the evolution of real estate prices on the market that is lacking throughout the national market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66829	Thank you. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66830	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Law on sales of real estate since the adoption of '97. In 2002, he had an interesting little change so far, only two amendments in 2000 and 2002, with this coming into effect in 2003, and it was indeed a commendable change that allowed a large number of young people to set up and achieve a higher standard of living by releasing a share or a total amount of taxes on the sales of their apartments for those assets. To this day, since '97. The years when this law occurred, both in Croatia and in the world, a lot changed. The biggest formal change is certainly entering a new millennium, entering a world of different, more modern communications, modern technologies, there have been significant changes in the lives of all of us, we have started to communicate by email, and we first look for any necessary information on the Internet today, and then we go on the search. And all that time, those big changes, since '97. Well, by 2003, the law was still, or sleeping. The real estate market grew and fell, the economy grew and fell, and the law remained the same. We therefore welcome these amendments introduced into this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Tax, as well as a more precise definition of individual situations provided for by the law. With these changes, you've awakened the law. We particularly welcome the creation of information preconditions for the speedy implementation of the law and call on the Ministry of Finance as a proposing not to stand on these amendments and additions, but to bring this law closer to the citizens. Transparency in the implementation of all laws makes life easier for citizens as well. At times when citizens, especially those who buy the first real estate, give the last kuna a few more credits, and as you know the problem with interest and credit, we will not compare, at least not under this point with the countries of the European Union, or Slovenia where we see how much cheaper loans are, and we know in particular what the credits of people who are raised in famous Swiss are. So it is particularly reliable with the information about the obligation to pay real estate taxes, indeed, is of exceptional importance. Now that it is planned to build, I will draw particular attention to that part, a large number of information solutions as a basis for the implementation of this law, the amount that a citizen will have to pay on the sales tax of real estate must be made available to citizens, even in the phase of making decisions on the purchase of real estate, i.e. the size of a given location, in accordance with tax exemptions, to which a citizen has or is not entitled, in order to know whether or not they can afford a certain property. It is known that many citizens are being recalculated. I won't go back to the Swiss, but I'll go back to interest, many can't pay off their apartments, and that way the banks sit on property, sit on houses, sit on apartments, and the banks seem to be able to have any street in every city. We simply believe that there must be a place on the website of the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration where citizens can see, through the same programme used by officials, if they buy a certain real estate of how much taxes they have to pay. It is particularly important, given that we have prescribed new amendments and additions that the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. Perhaps by Friday's vote, we should consider the proposal again. We believe that the adoption of our proposal will effectively reduce the number of complaints and further relieve the tax administration, and I will not write the amendment or any proposals for conclusions because I believe that such changes are related to information and information availability can also be addressed by implementing acts. In the 21st century, we believe that every law we adopt must be modern, lifeless and what is in this area is particularly important transparent and accessible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66831	Thank you. At 10 and 41 minutes, it's past 10 minutes. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the chairman of the Board, Mr. Petar Selem, scheduled a committee session today, at 13:30, in room 133/I, with the proper agenda, so today at 13:30. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66832	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Estate Tax, with a final proposal for a law. So, in the opening part of this legislative proposal, it is said that real estate tax is the legal basis for the creation of information conditions in order to relieve the IRS, which should make us happy, discharging the IRS. Furthermore, in the same paragraph, it will also allow for a faster resolution of the application of real estate tax, i.e. a significant reduction in the time of processing of the case with regard to IT solutions. Informational pre-conditions and information solutions thus made on the basis of the proposed amendments and additions to the Real Estate Tax Act. Mr. Secretary of State is clear that you are familiar, whether it means that the future budget of the state, cities and municipalities will then agree to say more money than now that your IRS or our IRS, so I have to say a debt on real estate sales of about 200 million kunas not charged. If the exact data I have is, then it's a figure of about 200 million kuna. Namely, I am not this data and your information equipment that is so ongoing in all ministries and despite everything there is no data importing, and the OIB we have invented and adopted it, but it has not lived to the end I must say so, and yet we have to constantly bring new legislative proposals, amendments and additions. More than that, for this debate, I was offered by a citizen who was in a conversation with me yesterday and who is a Croatian defender on the supply he receives, and she stands at 1,097,00 kuna. Since these are his only incomes, he sold a 60-square apartment last 2010 and bought less than 36 square meters to increase and make something possible for his children, schooling, college, etc. By selling a 60-square apartment and buying less than 36, I could say unconditional, he lost his supply right because he made some income last year. It's sad, but it's not the subject of this legislative proposal, although I couldn't, not the fact that yesterday I learned personally from the citizens of the Croatian defender, that's what another ministry is so concerned about, and we'll have time and time later on. Now, when it comes to the real estate market, the real estate prices, I would compare those real estate prices in terms of both the recession and all the real estate market movements like the water supply. So, Sava – Slavonski Brod so much, Danube – Vukovar so much, Zagreb – Sava etc. So it changes every day like water stops. And here in Article 4, it states that the basis of real estate tax is the market value of real estate at the time of the creation of the tax liability. I know about movable tax like a car where it's exactly prescribed, so years of production, type of car, and everything else that there's one table that you can't get away from when you're buying a car. When selling or buying real estate, therefore, the Tax Administration assesses the real estate regardless of how the buyer or seller agreed. At the moment, according to Article 4, at the time of the creation of the tax liability. Furthermore, I would also refer to the item in which it is spoken or an article saying that the complaint does not delay the execution. So why the appeal clause, anyway? Why does someone have the right to appeal and the appeal not delay the execution? I don't know I'm not an expert like Mr. Shakespeare in legal science, but if there's a clause on the right to appeal, so it's clear that, and I think it's logical, it's too much to consume that right to appeal. I mean, what's the right to appeal anyway? Then let it be written there's no right to appeal and that's it. The tax administration's solution is finally and no longer a right to appeal. I aim at this law to create a legal basis for the creation of informational preconditions and information solutions, in fact that is what is essentially, sufficient reason for a mild plus HDSSB club to be given to this legislative proposal as well as for it to remain mostly in the forms and forms in which Article 11 was before to be released from the property tax of those citizens who for the first time acquire real estate as a residential area. Whether it's an apartment or a house. Here, I say one little plus with these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66833	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66834	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Any law that allows, I would say efficiency and better tax collection, should be supported if, of course, it is the basis for that fair tax law and, of course, that those harmonisations and processes that bring efficiency cannot simply be supported and against them. But when we discuss this law, we need to highlight some of the things and illogical things that are mentioned in the law. The first thing, someone mentioned in the debate so far and in the last 2 years, 2010 and 2009, the real estate market has fallen significantly from this and income from real estate tax is much lower. In 2009, the market fell about 60%, in 2010 an additional 15% was sold 70% less real estate than it was in 2008. And then the question needs to be asked why this is the case and whether the state can, apart from the fact that legal proposals, tax changes, look only at accountingly how to collect money and in some way cut taxes, whether it can incentivise the market by its tax proposals, by its certain moves, and thus generate more taxes. Unfortunately, this country and this government can do so, we will see several and basic reasons why real estate traffic stopped in Croatia, and therefore we do not have a higher tax charge on this basis. One of these reasons is definitely the elimination of tax exemptions, for the right to pay taxes for those who buy real estate on credit and so far had the right to obtain a certain tax refund based on their tax returns and on their tax cards, this government abolished this year and around 105 thousand Croatian young families will not exercise the right next year in the full amount of tax returns, this year they are entitled only until 6 months. Whether it affected the sale of real estate and that we have about 40,000 unsold apartments in Croatia, it is safe. People calculated that they would get state aid on interest payments paid to banks, get a certain tax return, now they don't get it, feel more insecure and don't go into loans. Secondly, instead of this unsuccessful measure that the government set a year ago to subsidise interest, i.e. subsidize the 200-euro flat squares, and it is seen that almost no one has taken and taken advantage of that measure, the government should have stood behind its citizens, especially young families who do not dare to take credit because they do not know if they will be out of work in six months, a year, two years, and whether they will be able to pay it further and whether this job when they lose it will be able to find it. Instead of such a poor measure that did not deliver results, the government should have accepted the SDP proposal which spoke if you lost the state's job in cooperation with the banks, guarantee that you have a moratorium on loan in a certain period of time, and the state would have taken over, and the banks would have agreed to do so, because of the situation in Croatia to pay the interest during this stand by the period for those who had lost their jobs, in those years, and the bank would have taken over the principal, or to take the moratorium on the repayment of the loan. Of course, the state did not think in this way and detimise its citizens to buy real estate, to stand alone, and in some ways to move on their own in their own lives, to start a family, and to have their own living space and basic preconditions for living together. The state doesn't do that, instead the state has abolished tax relief, and in some way tax returns, and look at what it is, let's say coincidence, I'd say spilling from hollow to empty, abolished tax relief on the same day the crisis tax was lifted. So on the one hand, the people who bought the apartments and had loans paid back an average salary of about 200 kuna, but that's why she took them at an annual level of 4,5,000 kuna tax returns. So much more lost by these people than the generous government abolished their harrass and what they were not supposed to take from them. So we have one total I would say disoriented tax policy towards certain industries, and ultimately towards citizens who suffer most of it. What I'd like to mention and what I think is absolutely illogical in the law is that we're being taxed by squares instead of value. We now have a situation, I will give a simple example, a family that buys an apartment, a new family, people get married, they get a child, they buy an apartment in Zagreb in the city center, you have two locations where the values of the apartment are 7.8 thousand euros per square meter. And they buy an apartment of 60, 70 square meters and wages, and they get taxed on real estate because it's their first real estate, at the same time one other family in Zagreb buys an apartment of 1500 euros square on the periphery, and you know how much this family has saved, 22 thousand euros in taxes because they are released on the basis of squares and not on the basis of the value of its apartment. So our tax solutions are more beneficial to those who are richer and that's what we should change in both these and other laws. Real estate tax should absolutely not be counted on the basis of squares, but on the basis of the value of real estate and if someone acquires real estate for the first time and the state wants to help him get through cheaper, not to pay taxes, to keep it alone, it should be watched whether he paid 100,000 euros or paid 500 thousand euros, or adequately in kuna. Or whether he paid 700 thousand kuna or 5 million kuna. Of course, we don't take into account it, we all pay the same, we look at squares, and I wouldn't agree with my colleague Cain's argument that it's irrelevant for the first real estate whether someone has 100, 500 or 300 square meters, and I would absolutely have to look at the value of real estate, and I would say tax power or how many people gain money and whether they can pay more and contribute in this way to society. Another thing that's illogical is absolutely that it's part of the state's income. Which is why the state would have income from the property tax, so the value of the assets is growing because of local community investment, it absolutely needs to be the full income of the local community, and I disagree and it needs to introduce classes as a difference in the price of real estate. Someone buys agricultural land and pays 10 euros per square, rescheduled by the urban plan to build or travel land and the price rises 20 times, and they again pay for that 5% price difference. So someone who has earned millions of euros from this asset, kuna, no matter what 5% of the tax will pay, much less than that he earned as a profit in his company or as an employee in a company. So we have to look and we have to follow the logic of paying taxes that those who have more to pay adequately and tax to this state. Of course, as I say, we're not looking at it, we're looking at it to get all the same, and the easiest thing to do is to charge from the one I'd say that has the least and which is the easiest thing to take. Those who have no longer pay. And that is the whole point of this debate and the desire to change taxes in Croatia so that in a way that they are more just, to burden more people who have more property, and those who have less or less of it do not have to help them and to give them a more just and normal life in some way. We've just been detiming these people, young people going into real estate and making their lives difficult instead of helping them in some way. And by doing so, they would encourage real estate traffic and make a lot more budget than how it's being charged right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66835	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66836	Your colleague Maras made an interesting proposal regarding the benefits of paying taxes on real estate. Indeed, the issue of finding relief at the very value of the apartment may well be a solution that would lead to greater justice in the tax system itself. But I would mention something about reliefs that you didn't mention, which is one of the traps that stems from the right to be released in the purchase of the first real estate. The first real estate is usually bought by young people. At least 50% of these young people acquire this property before family creation. And after starting their family, they buy another property that is the only property they have to solve and care for their family, but in that case they have to buy a bigger property, they lose the right to tax relief, or they have no right to pursue this tax relief law. Of course there must be some limit to making it easier. But if we want to achieve this relief that will provide citizens with additional motivation and strengthen their purchasing power to acquire real estate and run the real estate market at the same time, I think it would be the tax administration's duty to find a solution, a fair solution, a solution that will not be unfair to the state, which will provide income from that base, which I would otherwise advocate to be the full income of local self-government and that this solution would allow not only the acquisition of the first real estate, but might be applied to a property for young people who solve their family's life needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66837	Answer Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66838	I agree with you and the intensity of my debate was to change one way that I think is deeply incorrect. We should free people who buy first real estate to value, of course it still has to be evaluated, but I think it would be a fair value of 100,000 euros. How many squares, whether or not and where to buy is absolutely irrelevant. I think that way you'd have a much stronger effect. Because I said in the case of Zagreb we stimulate people who have more money, we help people who have more money to pay less and make bigger savings and that's what's absolutely unfair. As with real estate traffic, I think it would be fair if it were a luxury, if it were a multi-million-euro property, to make the tax more progressive. So we finally get to what's called a fairer tax system, who has more to pay, and one that doesn't even get rid of it. I think that in this way, the state would have more than that, that it would be fairer to incentivise real estate after 70% in two years. But of course, we do nothing but coordinate certain things and keep bad solutions for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66839	Thank you. Also a replica of Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66840	It is essential for every law, especially this one when it comes to taxes and, in particular, real estate tax, to make it a fair tax. The way you talk, it further stimulates the more voluntary attitude of the government towards the rich, and the maternal towards the poor. One of these same properties and even in the same area if it is the same square is not the same value and cannot be taxed the same. In such a way, the proposal of the law gives rise to the speed that tax collectors will not come out on the spot, but that they will assess and cut the tax on a given square and a certain area, because the market value of that property in that area is so unfair. They cannot be released because it is in the favorites of the taxpayer and of the one whose value is less. Therefore, the law cannot, the bill cannot leave the basic sense that the basic basis of the tax is value rather than squares. Because value tax is justice, and square tax can be madness squared. It is essential for every law, especially this one when it comes to taxes and, in particular, real estate tax, to make it a fair tax. The way you talk, it further stimulates the more voluntary attitude of the government towards the rich, and the maternal towards the poor. One of these same properties and even in the same area if it is the same square is not the same value and cannot be taxed the same. In such a way, the proposal of the law gives rise to the speed that tax collectors will not come out on the spot, but that they will assess and cut the tax on a given square and a certain area, because the market value of that property in that area is so unfair. They cannot be released because it is in the favorites of the taxpayer and of the one whose value is less. Therefore, the law cannot, the bill cannot leave the basic sense that the basic basis of the tax is value rather than squares. Because value tax is justice, and square tax can be madness squared.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66842	Answer Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66843	Well, I wouldn't say it should just apply to the first real estate. You have people who buy real estate and have the opportunity to pay taxes and have earned money, some of the capital gains that unfortunately are not taxed in Croatia and have bought apartments, houses 500, 600 square meters. Well, it's impossible for another real estate to be the same tax and to take 5% just without any progress. Did someone take more or less that state treats it the same way. It is impossible that today, since we have neither capital gain tax nor tax, I would say profit on property, today someone will say in Slavonia a country or another part where today the country is cheaper, and tomorrow, when we join the EU, the price will rise 20 or 30 times. And we're not gonna get any of that on that country's profits. The state has entered the European Union, someone has built the infrastructure locally, not the state, and I don't think the state should get any but should get a unit of local self-government, get anything or get 5%. Is it fair for someone to make money on the ground, on a million-euro property, and to pay 5%, and for an entrepreneur who earns a million euros to pay 20%. Either there is a lot of illogicality in Croatia, someone earns a million euros as a director or as an employee of a corporation where they pay him capital gains, and he pays zero taxes. But if we have bad solutions, we need to change them. It is my instinct that if both property and real estate are earned by the state, or in this case by the local unit, taxes must be paid and that is the only thing that is fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66844	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66845	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a law on amendments, as counterpart Adlesic said, which has seen relatively little change since 1997 since it was passed. It is already mentioned here, and it should be reiterated that significant and major changes to the Law on Real estate Tax were published in 2002 and 2003, respectively, when the exemption from the tax on real estate was introduced, and the purchase of the first real estate by which the taxpayer or citizen solves his own housing issue. As is said, the proposal for this law is one of the measures in the Economic Recovery Programme, which in some ways creates the preconditions for leaving the crisis in one of these forms that is shown here. It is clear that the basis of this creates a certain information base and a prerequisite for the tax administration to disburse itself in determining the sales of real estate taxes. This means that, on the basis of these proposed amendments and additions, information solutions will be accessed so that all systems can generate certain data and, in part, I dare say, and bring solutions related to the subject by automation, especially when tax returns. It may well be mentioned here and perhaps combine the differences because it is often identified or compared to the car market, primarily the movement, and then we speak brand, age, table and relatively simple tax base. In real estate it can often be much different, much more responsible and more difficult. In order to perhaps understand it more lifely, I would further share it in legal matters that are related to both individuals, but legal persons, therefore private type and character behind which there is no public function, but one part and the purchase of real estate when there is a particular public system or public function behind it, which is primarily a system of regional and local self-government which then sets tasks for certain sales or purchase of real estate by the foundations or decisions of city councils, mayors in the context of spatial plans and so forth. So when we talk about this part of mutually traded relationship between natural individuals or legal persons, we should neither run away from the fact that in society was or which exists today, to improve in the proposal for a buy-in contract to place figures that do not correspond to the really agreed market values, thus saying "play" the law and the social community into a situation where taxes are not paid. It is clear that even in this application of the law, it is not easy because the issue of real estate is different from the movables and cars in Croatia, which are approximately the same market values from the region to the region, from the city, from the urban environment and to those rural agricultural or sea-related areas, which means that certain tax administrations will also have developed market bases or tax bases, so it is worth mentioning. And I think that the law's intensity went in that part to actually sublime a larger number of purchase contracts or other contracts of that kind, and then a single average occurs and thus becomes the basis for a faster solution to that problem, and also, in a way, let's say more transparent total prices because there is now a record that can be used in time and quality. Now allow me a few words about one more part of this topic when it comes to legal persons and the good part of cities, municipalities, institutions that are obliged to protect the public interest and who very often have the necessary tax administration to just ask, to call, for the estimated market value of real estate in order to base this on the initial value for individual purchases or above all for the sale of land because both commissioners or chiefs must pay particular attention, so first of all, to safeguard public funds. And so I find that we have often been in the field lately, and in cities, we have had a situation where tax administrations have not given us that information, so the question is specific, so for each individual such request, we would need a specially elaborate civil engineering expert who, on each of these issues, would bring certain solutions, not to say that this is primarily a new cost related to these matters. But also, what is important is that we were often in a situation where the time for these jobs could be delayed, go on forever, and thus lead us into a situation so that this legal work would be delayed or there would be no solution. It is an interesting situation that arises approximately when we make a decision in a particular city, the municipality, that we sell one land, that it is in accordance with spatial plans, strategy, with the budget, that we therefore have the competent authority to and assess the value of whether it is tax administration, whether a court expert, to announce such sales and that no one is answering. Unlike some other cases when it comes to bankruptcy then there is a procedure in which this country or this property area can reduce the price by 20.30% here in cases where no one reports to our competition. So I didn't get the right information then, whether based on the failed sales opportunity in the next sale was different to lower the price. If that estimated market value is at that time, at that time it is not marketable in that space. But what I just said is just some of the dilemmas that are related to this law that we're talking about right now. Personally, therefore, I also support a comment related to the case itself, i.e. a complaint about a certain tax cut. So it is my opinion that a decision should also be postponed after taxing itself, i.e. the payments themselves, until the issue of appeal is resolved. But that normally raises the question of the speed of resolution of the appeal. It is clear if we will have I will say one, so the term, a price indicator in a given area, a particular region for a certain type of property that certainly in some way and in particular affects the speed of work itself, and hence, the possible decision-making. It's an interesting topic, although I don't have enough time anymore, which all affects the sale of real estate. So this is where we talk about apartments. But we can also talk about land in certain areas. This depends large and thickly on the state of the spatial-planning documentation in a particular area where the property is sold. Because often after the sale, people cannot be determined by that land in some appropriate time according to their purpose, so to the new construction. Because a good part of how spatial planning documents, building permits are not made in time, and thus the basic objective of buying real estate can be very often a new investment where either economic construction or housing takes place, which certainly means both economic recovery and new funds in the budget. But given that the time is near the end I will personally support the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66846	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66847	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's the law that's been a really good law in some time. But time carries its own, and so does these changes where it is indicated that they are heading towards the discharge of the Tax Administration, and I mean that in that part of the faster and better quality and more realistic determination of the base, they are indeed standing. These are in any case information assumptions and information solutions. They can significantly shorten the processing time. Therefore, identification, monitoring, ex post accounts, monitoring of the timely submission of applications, etc. That I don't keep counting it. What can really be good is that I say that I create a base, or I will call it a catalogue of traffic values and real estate that are certainly taking into account both the area and local opportunities and time, and they will be of great benefit not only to you tax authorities but to all potential participants, including especially here we are also what a colleague in the units of local self-government, courts and other institutions said. I won't look back on what the predecessors said, so it's quite said about authorized persons. I agree with that, making it easier to buy apartments, etc. However, I will say that this change in the part in which the provision is prescribed that the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution is not good. It is not good simply because it does not comply with the general rules of the General Tax Code, because it is prescribed that the complaint postpones the execution of the tax instrument that has been denied until the decision on the appeal is reached. Therefore, we would in some way put all those taxpayers in a disadvantage compared to those taxpayers of other tax liabilities. However, I'd like to take a brief look, I'll make myself clear. I'm going to look back at the explanation that you gave and that kind of upsets me, and I think it can upset the general public. So, in your explanation, you set the point that the complaint is exclusively used as a means of postponing taxes. If that's true, does that mean that it's a second-degree body guide to reject all complaints? That should be taken care of when these grades are given. In my opinion, I'm not going to say a good part, but one part of the appeal must end both by changing or revoking the first-degree solution. I believe that there are solutions to these, and that's why you shouldn't stand like this, let's put it this way. And I would say one more thing, and that is the reason for the postponement and payment or stretching, so we can say the payment of that tax liability that can be a year and two that we do not fool ourselves does not lie in the fact that someone avoids paying taxes or postponing, but rather lies in the fact that there is no disrespect in Article 5, paragraph 170. General tax code. You know in it it says that the tax authority is required within 60 days to respond to the complaint filed. So the difficulties wouldn't be if the answer arrived within 60 days. However, he often arrives two years later. And the promoter should consider sanctioning those who did not comply with this article of the law and who did not respond within 60 days or take action, let the appropriate measures that do not happen in the future in any way. So much for this argument. And of course, I said I wouldn't say anything about these reliefs because it's quite said except that I would point out that these sales tax exemptions on real estate are not paid when moving real estate from one company to another during those status changes. So, attaching, joining, separating companies, etc. And that's okay. Unfortunately, I think now is the right time to consider tax exemption for entry of real estate through the entry into the business of crafts. So when we enter the business of crafts, when we enter real estate into or our property, when it is introduced by a craftsman into a company, so when it changes its legal form. Namely, the increasingly common craft grows, monitors its development, monitors its need and has its shape, has the need to change that legal form, so from the crafts to the company. I repeat once again, I think it is time for this to be corrected, by the fact that these needs are far greater than any previous 10 years today than they were before, and adjustments to both the market and the European Union, and that we should act in this direction. The more the transfer of the total activity of crafts, property or real estate is not, or is, according to Articles 19 and 20. The profit tax law is freed. So the Profit Tax Act frees him and releases him from the Tax Act for an additional value. So who doesn't release him? It is not only released by the Real Estate Tax Act, and I think that we would address the whole issue of the real estate of the company’s crafts and property. Well, here's where I'm gonna take one amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66848	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66849	I absolutely agree with what my colleague said, and many others how this proposal should be amended, so that the appeal does not delay its execution. It's a relic of the past. The delay, i.e. that the appeal does not delay execution, can only be reserved for extraordinary institutes such as temporary measures. That's not the case here. And over a few years, we've had cases that the tax press simply in many cases, especially through units, in the units of local self-government went into some kind of tax depression and into political dealings with non-insects. And we had it, and we enjoyed it. In any event, it is also necessary to comply with the basic provision of Article 18 of our Constitution, which guarantees the right to appeal against individual legal acts adopted in a court but also in other proceedings before authorised bodies. Therefore, this argument of yours, I agree with the fact that there are a lot of those who abuse procedural powers, and then the right to appeal. That's gotta be the way it is. But because someone does not abuse, because someone abuses this procedural authority, especially the supreme authority of the right to appeal, and because the state is powerless to deal with such accounts, then those who are truly in good faith and with good conviction, and later on, by the appeal and by the decisions of the appeal body, we see that they were right, thus being punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66850	Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66851	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is important to say that the existing Law on Real Estate Tax has been in force since '97. the year, however, since there has been a series of changes in the economic, social and legal environment in the meantime, and with the intention of removing the possibility of a double interpretation that has emerged in the application of the existing law, then, of course, has joined these amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing today. Also one of the reasons for the amendments and additions to this law is the fact that this law seeks, so there is a need and this law will seek to relieve the tax administration itself. On the basis of the changes and additions that we are discussing today, it will also develop information solutions that the system itself would be able to signal and ex post tax on real estate, in cases where the taxpayer was exempt from tax. In this way, it will also allow for a faster resolution of the application of real estate tax, i.e. a significant reduction in the time of processing of the case itself. The amendments and additions to this law relate above all to provisions, and as discussed today, so the provisions relating to the regulation of the tax base, the tax exemption for the purchase of first real estate and the timing of the implementation of the decision on the determination of real estate tax. Therefore, it is more precise to define the concept of the tax base itself, as well as the process of its determination, with the fact that it is important to stress that if the total amount of the benefit provided by the acquirer is approximately the same as the prices achieved on the market, then the tax base will be determined from the acquisition document, however, if the amount shown in the acquisition document is lower, then the tax administration will assess the market value based on data on the movement of market values of similar properties. Thus, the tax base procedure itself is defined precisely, and thus excludes the possibility of a double interpretation of the way in which it is determined. This approach will, above all, have an impact on the uniqueness of real estate tax procedures and on a more economical way of determining it, which will ultimately result in much of the income from real estate tax. It is also important to point out that the real estate tax, in fact, will not be paid by those citizens who, on the basis of a contract concluded on the purchase of real estate, acquire the first real estate, regardless of whether it is an apartment or a house, which will deal with their own housing issue and, of course, under certain conditions which are detailed in the legal proposal itself, which I will not particularly stress here, since there are plenty of them. Also, by prescribing the provision that the appeal does not delay the implementation of the solution, the possibility of it being used primarily as a means of delaying the payment of real estate tax, as indicated by the current application of the existing law, when many have misused this institute and have submitted complaints only to delay the payment of the tax. However, in today’s debates, we had the opportunity to see different thoughts, which, of course, need to be accounted for. So these legal solutions will significantly shorten the time itself of processing individual cases, increase efficiency and tax collection and, of course, I will give my voice to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66852	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've already talked about this subject, but a few more points that should be highlighted for changes and additions to real estate tax because it is extremely important and it will certainly contribute positively to that part of the IRS because so far there have been quite bad experiences in making a solution, in filing applications, in appeal procedures, and certainly it was necessary to find a way to improve these solutions, in order to make it more effective and tax-paying solutions. It is unacceptable for a taxpayer to wait and wait for years for a tax solution on real estate. Such a situation is unsustainable and it is excellent that you have finally responded to such a situation. And this will certainly prevent such a situation in the future. It may have been some tax bonds that fit, but many don't. Many in Croatia want to regulate their obligations, do not want to be obliged. There are people who don't get used to it. There are others, that's why society is different. But therefore, the IRS must not allow a deadline in which no solution is made. It is doubtless that the complaints were also filed, I would not agree solely because of the delay in payment of the payment of the obligation, but they were lodged for objective reasons. Some colleagues are now referring to the fact that the appeal should, in fact, delay the enforcement of the tax collection, so I think it is groundless because I have already stressed that the representatives of the Government have agreed with the amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance and Budget to delete this article, which sets out Article 13, which provided that the appeal was not delayed. Therefore, the appeal will now delay execution and this is an excellent solution for both taxpayers and the IRS. The real estate market has suffered a major blow under these conditions of the economic crisis. That's beyond a doubt. She didn't recover from that blow today either. For example, only 500 million kuna of real estate tax was less calculated in 2009 than in previous years. 500 million kuna a year. It's the best indicator of how much the real estate market has fallen. And any assessment that affected the fall in the real estate market, and if it were just one factor or two, I'd prefer to estimate it with unserious assessments. Not one factor influenced, complex and layered factors affecting the decline of all activities and thus the decline of the real estate market. It is not clear to the category that only tax reliefs have affected the fact that citizens are now not going to buy real estate or apartments. That's an exaggeration. The truth is that it has little influence and that, but most of all it affects whether someone is going to buy real estate or not its paid ability, job stability, salary height, and funding conditions. Is there money or does it need to be credited for such a purchase of real estate? And of course, if we were to try the most important factors now, the most important elements that have affected the decline of the real estate market, then I would dare say that these are business instability, pay height and credit conditions. That these are the most important factors that have affected the decline of the real estate market. Recently, and I have often warned about this, we read in a daily newspaper how much, it seems to me 35,000 euros, more in Croatia an average citizen on average housing credit pays off to credit banks than in Slovenia. Well, of course, when the interest rate in Slovenia is 2.5 to 3% on housing loans, and in Croatia from 6.8% on fees it comes to 8.5, and some to 9, and also to those who have raised loans in previous years, they have raised the interest rate unilaterally, without any conversations, without consultation, without consent, unilaterally increased the interest rate on housing loans. It affected the downfall of the real estate market. And the famous foreign exchange clause, it also negatively influences, it psychologically prevents people from raising housing loans. Because the constant threat, even though we are the most stable, we have price stability in Europe among the best, we have 15 years of stable kuna, we have inflation in the most optimal conditions, in the best of relationships, and right now it's constantly threatening inflation and it's constantly sticking to the exchange clause. And it's something that prevents and affects not to raise housing loans and high interest rates. And that foreign exchange clause, the anti-zaconite and the amoral foreign exchange clause, is about time to be abolished because it is also the one that affects the activity of housing loans. It should also consider those who say yes and value should be taken into account when it comes to the release of real estate tax. It's certainly a topic to think about in the future. But they can't agree with a colleague, Cain, who said that regardless of the value of real estate and the square when someone buys the first real estate to be exempt from real estate tax. This is unacceptable because we know that in Croatia there are many "tata sons" whose first movement is jaguar or yacht, and the first real estate apartment on the Flower Square or villa in Pantovack. It is unacceptable for such, to be exempt from paying taxes on real estate. Therefore, this is a good solution, but it is necessary to consider the restriction and value in terms of the value of real estate and the exemption of real estate tax. I would not agree with those who advocate that the real estate tax only belongs to local self-government units and that the state is not worthy of anything. Why, for example, did the price of real estate rise somewhere? Because it's only the infrastructure built by local self-government. What about just the highways? Well, highways have made Croatia a different state. The highways have reborn Croatia, highways in Croatia have made a future, highways have changed the value of many properties throughout Croatia, from an area where no one wanted to come suddenly became valuable to the area where the highway passes, so the units of local self-government did not build it, the state built it. And that certainly as you divide the tax of real estate is acceptable. But there's another problem that needs to be highlighted when it comes to the value of real estate. I am most concerned about the situation which has been the purchase of agricultural land at very favourable prices, and then by changing the urban plan, this land has become a building land and the value has increased by 100 times and the tax has not been charged, because it will no longer sell that property and no more property tax and it has remained, it has earned nothing but one change of state administration, it has become real estate instead of 1,500 euros, instead of 50,000 euros, a million, two or 100 million euros. It is necessary to consider how to charge taxes on such properties. But this law is an excellent proposal to amend and the supplement is excellent, and that is why I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66854	Thank you. Five replicas. The first female representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66855	Dear colleague Maric, I agree with most of your discussion, and I actually want to complete it in two parts. The part that you were talking about bank behaviour in raising housing loans around currency clauses absolutely agrees and I think that once here in the Croatian Parliament, we should agree that the state should take over the role that I think the state should have and that is in the protection of its citizens. People when they raise loans sign contracts of whatever kind they get, and then the artis later change interest because they're all less signing a variable interest rate and it would be good if nowhere else in this House came a joint proposal to limit the highest level of interest rates as well as some other clauses that are almost typical of our credit agreements with banks. So it seems to me that the state here has to take over one part of the function of protecting citizens from the real interest of private capital, or the interest of the bank itself, or its owners and obtaining their profits. The second thing, which I actually say to your presentation is the part that's about issuing a solution to the release of real estate tax, it's good this amendment that actually the complaint doesn't keep the whole story, but I think in the implementation we have another problem, which is that in the implementing acts of the tax administration, there is actually no time limit in which the tax administration has to bring a solution to the submitted release request... on real estate. It seems to me that there's actually a lot of malfeasance in that part. You make a request to get rid of real estate traffic, thus delay your payment of real estate, tax administration especially if you know someone there that keeps it in a drawer for 15 years. So it seems to me that in this implementing part, in terms of more effective collection and satisfaction of the fairness of the rules that are basically good things can still be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66856	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66857	Thank you very much, colleague Lugaric. Well, the currency clause is the result of a contract between banks and credit users. And only by mutual relationship can this situation be solved. But as far as I'm aware of it, both professional and scientific papers have been written, so have university professors on the currency clause and unilateral change of interest rates. There are already trials, I am convinced that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be known organised and jointly protect them from such a currency clause and unilateral change of contractual obligations. As far as this deadline is concerned, which is missing a deadline for making a decision on real estate tax, making a solution is a very complex job, there are simple and complex things, of course you should think about it and that it can't be a time-limit. But there's a situation where a solution can be made within 15 days, there's a place to wait for six months, there's a possibility of limitations to be considered. But also about the deadlines for filing a complaint. But that's why the state will now be stimulated to bring a solution to the appeal as soon as possible because it won't charge taxes until it settles the appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66858	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66859	Thank you very much. In the debate, you touched a lot of topics that I mentioned, and we agree on a lot of things, but we disagree on one thing. And this is that when you talk about the terms of credit, you almost never mention the responsibility that the state has to help its citizens and that the market can affect the level of interest rates and in some ways can if it wants to limit the level of interest rates in Croatia. In the SDP, we have proposed such laws, if you want to have the opportunity to support them, and on the other hand you do not have to ignore the credit rating of a country that is lower than in Slovenia, so you have compiled how many Croatians pay interest, how much the Slovenians pay, so we need to take the influence and opportunity for the state to fix the overall situation in the lending of our citizens. On the other hand, it's not true that people don't care about tax relief, it's absolutely important to them, because if you get 5,000 kuna interest back a year, then someone counting on that money will absolutely consider it when deciding to take a loan or not. So there are many things that the state is doing, and it could work and not work to help Croatian citizens, and we should have a little more potential for these problems than just looking towards the market, towards banks, as if Croatia can't do anything to help its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66860	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66861	Comrade Maras, it should be known that the interest rate is a market category, that is the start of the economy and that no market categories need to be mixed. The market should also be left to the market, but it should be known that the level of interest rates does not affect as much the credit rating on which all states are called, as much as the amount of domestic savings, as the level of interest rates on deposit, and in Croatia is the highest interest rate on deposits so-called. the passive interest rate not in the region but in Europe and with such high sources of funds, or the high price of the bank's resources, are forced at a high price to approve loans. But they themselves can lower the price of their capital, but it comes out to those who have earned extra profits that hold billions of kuna on banks to make even more money by giving them an interest rate of 6 to 6.5% on deposits they have. And it's a source due to high interest rates and it has to be resolved by monetary policy or selective approach. And as for these reliefs you've said, I don't know a single person who's given up on buying an apartment because of the relief, but I know hundreds of people who've decided not to buy an apartment because of the instability of work, low wages and high interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66862	Third replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the text of this debate, it is clear that in the purchase of the first real estate every kuna of relief and all that makes for citizens well and well-recognized praiseworthy. But it is a convenient moment to conclude Mr. Maric that, apart from buying us an individual for an apartment or for real estate in his own direction, the purchase of real estate should be understood in the context of the development of the economy. And my office as mayor of Zapresic of 10 stakeholders who were interested in what opportunities investment in Zapresić through real estate then through construction, should not forget that apart from the very price of the property and tax on it, it is much more important what conditions of municipal infrastructure, the state of spatial plans, the nearness of power supply, or possibly some of the other characteristics that are linked outside the price itself. I am only saying this as a contribution to the debate, when we talk about the context of real estate prices and taxes, we understand this also in the context of economic recovery and development, and all of which are teachingly connected to the building, which means that this topic is much wider and that it also implies as such a whole complex of other issues related to the continuation of the purchase of real estate, because the purchase of real estate other than the speculative amount itself or the resolution of other issues and housing issues has one of the objectives or one of the essential objectives and further development of economic and business activities in those areas, and then clearly that everything affects the price of real estate in general. But there is one more thing to say in the context of the land, it should not be forgotten that we have otherwise introduced something called the compensation for the transfer from the agricultural land to the building land, which I have dared to say so much speculatively earned money flows into the state register or into the agricultural segment, and that is clearly worth mentioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66864	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66865	My colleague Turk, you've noticed that the purchase of real estate is for the purpose of economic activity. Well construction activity is a driving, initial capsule for economic activity, for economic growth. Many countries base their economic growth on construction activities. Croatia has also been hit, the impact on this activity has been difficult and the crisis on the real estate market has actually been the most felt. For example, in 2007, there were 252,000 contract sales contracts for real estate, in 2010 only 128 thousand. The number of real estate contracts has been cut in half. And so important for Croatia's fate is important construction activity. Banks have been enriched on builders and citizens, and are now returning both construction and citizens to non-approving loans for construction activity at all, nor for housing loans under favourable conditions. But for some, for example, one business bank for the purchase of land to one privileged company approves a long-term loan at 4% interest, and for a residential loan gives interest it approves a loan at an interest rate of 6.8%. These things are disproportionate and unresponsive and not for the benefit of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66866	Next replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66867	Thank you. counterpart Maric said that highways, probably referring to Croatian highways, have reborn Croatia. And apparently we live in two different Croatians. These Croatian highways are likely to have been re-emerged by certain private accounts, etc. On the other hand, I have to say that this statement that is related to real estate tax, that the state belongs to that particular percentage. I think it should belong to local self-government units of 100%, since even for highways, they freed the municipal contribution. On the other hand, I believe and agree with my colleague, Marić, that the ability to pay, the height of the salary and the amount of interest has affected the real estate market, but it is precisely this paying ability, the height of the salary and the height of the interest that you think someone should bear part of their responsibility, because 350 thousand unemployed should therefore not bear the responsibility of the units of local self-government, but rather the responsibility should be borne by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And as for paying taxes, I'm pretty sure Dad's sons didn't pay taxes, but I'm more interested in whether the dads paid taxes or whether the tax on that yacht was known for a little vitre?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66868	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66869	We do not live in different Croatia, we live in the same Croatia. And ask those who live in those parts where the highways have passed as they have now, and how they have been. They have been reborn and that is why Croatia has been reborn, and I am pleased with all those who live along the highway and who are now living in Croatia. You will not believe, in 1996 I wrote so what Croatia is waiting for, which does not build highways. There was no happier man than me when the construction of highways began, because I am thinking strategically, and it is strategically important in the long term whether Croatia has highways or not, and this cannot be shown immediately, especially in the conditions of the most severe crisis that has happened to Croatia, but how much it will affect Croatia's future, Croatia's development, in the coming decades, we will all feel it and I am glad about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66870	And Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66871	I'll look back on this. First of all, I have to correct you here, of course it affects the price of government credit risk at the price of interest, so who says it doesn't affect that lie. The second thing, of course, is that it affects the height of the passive interest rate, but if it wasn't for the passive interest rate highest in Europe, the money would have run out. The conversion exposure of Croatia is such that it would completely destroy the kuna and depreciate it, and why, because there is a huge and large savings based on the extra profits you have also made, and on the other hand there is an inability to channel it. At the same time when the state was taking money on the domestic market, it pushed entrepreneurs to be in debt on the foreign market that they are tied to, of course, the currency clause. The citizens didn't have to be tied up, and we agree on that, and that's why we've also sent a bill to abolish the currency clause, only then we ask that when that proposal comes to support it, not to raise the interest and say no, it's not right now because we're not going to intervene in the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66872	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66873	You told a colleague that the state had instructed entrepreneurs to be in charge abroad. That's not true. The market has instructed entrepreneurs to be in charge abroad because they are in debt half as cheap as on the domestic market and this is possible because banks in Croatia still live twice as much as any bank in any part of the world. Despite the biggest crisis, the bank has earned 3 billion and some net profits plus 4 billion reserves reserved, which, I don't know if they've placed or not, but they're reserved because of the absolutely uncharging possibilities of such placements. So if the banks have it, and I can't possibly charge those bills, I suggest they transfer these plasmas so riskyly to the state without compensation, and the state will deal with that charge, and I believe that we're going to charge something for it. You spoke, and you didn't say any figures, and these are the exact figures we're talking about, the number of purchase contracts, the level of interest rates, and where there's no figures, there's no truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66874	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66875	Here's just at the beginning maybe this part about the numbers. Therefore, because of the stability or instability of state finances for each citizen of this country, every credit that pays is 2.5% more expensive than in neighbouring Slovenia. Every loan, every kuna he raises costs 2.5% more for every citizen of this country because of the Ministry of Finance or the state policy. So much for numbers. Every citizen and that pensioner who doesn't have bread on that day, pulls a card out of an ATM or raises a pension bank, the church girl who arrived at him, and if he goes to minus him, the same 2.5% more expensive because of that, because of the state finances and the one who receives his salary, barely combines the end of the American iron Diners. Every, every 2.5%. So much for numbers. As far as this bill is concerned, I'd like to look back on a few things. First of all, without a radical change, and even in this part of the collection or tax system, there will be no I would say happiness or fair tax distribution or fair payment. Already at the beginning, but it is a Croatian model that has worked for a long time, sees arbitration. So if the price is somewhere around the property around that price by the tax administration tables, then that's okay, if the derogation applies, and it always gives up the price. a smaller property that usually costs more is reported, then a tax administration table is applied. You see, under the current law, you, as tax administration, should sue those who report it for tax evasion under the current law. Now the second question is that it is not Croatian practice. It's a question of credibility and ability at all to deal with this problem in this capacity. The current situation is in which in this way, by changing the law which is more cosmetic I would say repairs the relationship and charge when it comes to small, most unprotected, when it comes to citizens who are fairly paying all their taxes and contributions, but it absolutely radars no special property, special land that remains in the hands of individuals, the mechanics pass under the radar. So, on the one hand, order is being established and citizens are under full surveillance, on the other hand the mechanics are still below the radar, or inconspicuous. Why am I saying this, why, because these mechanics, no matter how much money they have, don't create new jobs, but then what my colleague Maric is about, they put money on the bank, and they make that extra interest, and then the bank still uses it to place the credit, plus the currency clause, plus 2.5% of the additional tax directly responsible by the Ministry of Finance and the state that burdens the same pensioner who is minus the current account and the citizen who raises the credit for the apartment, the mortgage. So much for that. So-called the difference between German and Croatian bonds or in some terms a trading instrument called default loans... I just want to let you know, I can see that the mixing has started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, on the one hand, those meshetars who make money at the price of land, real estate, apartments, whatever, they're not invited to return some of that money to the state, the local self-government unit. No one's getting a hat off their heads if the state makes their profits easier. Well, it'd be easier for you today if you'd done it, we wouldn't be in so much trouble. Unfortunately, we're all in trouble. It's not a matter of ruling furniture, because it's fleeting, but it's a matter of the country and putting a sustainable governance model on one stable base and on its feet, so it can simply work. And as much as that system of cosmetic change, I'm not saying we're hanging on to it because of the difficult state of society and the debate about things that can really be done. And this proposal is the one that has cosmetic changes to improve payment. But from who? On the other hand, it does not work on systemic solutions, i.e. on a radical change in injustice. Because it's not the same if you buy an apartment on Pantovchak, and that's what a colleague was talking about, or an apartment on the Kozara side. It's not the same 50 squares for someone who's richer and for someone who's poor and in a fair state who takes care of it, I wouldn't say about my citizens in the first place, but about myself, that she's incomeing a good portion of the money that goes this way and he doesn't know the way. So that state should be responsible for that, too. And what the proposal, i.e. the introduction of the law, can treat as unworthy is to facilitate this process through a united system of additional information. In 2007, I was also a witness here in the Parliament when the presentation of the OIB which was scheduled to take effect next year, and the proposal was that I quoted it then, then Minister Shuker went out and said it was done with a slip. You were probably present at the time, that after the full introduction of the OIB, so it is 3 years from the initial introduction you will think about the possible formation of a database that will unite the list I would say property so that you could finally have information about the property and so that you could introduce what should be called an asset censorship in Croatia as in other developed Europe. The possible formation was then the text that stood in the proposal. After that, he said it was a slip, that it was already done, but there is no result. That's not what you're working on! You gave up land, you gave up real estate, did you cover all these things in the proposal? Did you join that OIB? You're not or you're not talking about it. And that's what we keep saying. So on the one hand, when we see this solution that may, to some extent, repairs the charge is unworthy when we see what has to be done and it has not been done. And the main problem, the main problem of the complete system and these beauty arrangements, I'd say the acceleration of a certain acceleration of the charge. This will not solve the problem of Croatian indifference. It also writes in the bill that this proposal is also on track with measures from the government's economic recovery to speed up the collection. However, we have a trend that more than two years of indifference in Croatia is constantly increasing internal non-payments, claims, debts and it has reached 35 billion kuna levels. In them are about 90,000 people who work in such companies whose workplace is threatened directly. The bread for their families is thus directly endangered. Now, a question arises which is his interest, the interest of an entrepreneur who has such a company to enter into a new additional business risk, in new employment if he cannot collect old liabilities. None of them! There's no interest. And that's why the economy is standing in place, tap and slow in the statistical errors of electricity around this part that we've touched, around part of the level of the 2004 gross social product. So it's like seven years of nothing's happened in Croatia. And instead of megalomanic projects that will certainly not be realised in the short term I propose to you government gentlemen, I am sorry that there is no new minister and that would be one good indicator of the relationship towards Parliament, towards parliamentary Croatia, that Croatia and that Parliament that makes important laws for this people and for this country. I'm sorry she's gone. Maybe next time he'll come. Instead of a large number of megalomaniac projects, which are to a lesser or greater extent, the question is whether they will experience a realisation. You solve only one problem in Croatia, and you have done a terrible lot, i.e. We'll come to the beginning. Just solve the liquidity problem, just the non-payment problem. One single project should be a single government project, because you will do more with this project for this country than with all measures under the government's economic recovery programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66876	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, when you were talking about the need to introduce property cards, I'll just remind you that otherwise, the 2003 Tax Tax Tax Act means that it has to run property cards, property cards in terms of where it would have been, on the one hand, all the property of taxpayers, and on the other hand there would be all the incomes that the taxpayer has acquired during the tax period, which means that it has been 8 years, that absolutely nothing has been done, that in fact, all the data that came to the Tax Administration and for real estate and all the other obligations were not actually used in the right way, are not included in the Tax Administration Information System. And the Tax Administration also based on the OBZ could, means comparing these data on the acquired property of the taxpayer and its income during the year. And it could mean at the end of the year in the tax settlement if there was a disproportionate determination means income tax that didn't happen. Or if it happened, I have to say that mostly those complaints were respected at the second degree. And as far as I'm concerned, I'd say something else about the charge. So look, as far as the bill is concerned, specifically... the type of tax, however, does not have an easier way of charging than in the case of real estate tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because automatically if a taxpayer does not pay a real estate tax, you can put a mortgage, i.e. a claim on that property, and very simply means you can charge yourself. We're wondering why the banks are effective at billing. There's a state not in charge of its revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66878	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here in many ways I would agree with my predecessors primarily in the basics that these amendments and additions of the laws are primarily cosmetics and in which it does not look at the deep consequences of the entire tax system that is currently in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we live really in two Croatias, in one rich Croatia and the little easter which is during that Homeland War, you know it best and therefore do not hold on to be accused of something that neither you nor you, and none of us there did, and those poor and eastern Croatia who live not with the life of this developed Croatia, precisely for the sake of the tax system. One of the taxes is certainly a real estate tax, which regardless of how the Ministry of Finance from 1990 and even from 2000 to 2003 did not make a real analysis of these tax revenues. However, there have been several amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation and Financing of Local Self-Government, so this is one of the laws that directly affects creation, i.e. remains in the centralisation of the Republic of Croatia, and greatly reduces the ability of local self-government units to function at all at this time. I am particularly thinking about this second Croatia, the eastern Croatia, which since the Homeland War, of this economic crisis, I will say later on who is actually the most responsible for the crisis itself, still very difficult to work on. And that's why the bill promoter doesn't get into the basic problem, because the problem of this country is one of the most brilliant and brilliant court, though very much in charge, I'd say almost with my underwear on the stick, and on the other hand, the poor unit of local self-government, one imperceptibility that didn't break even the arrival of corridor 5C in Slavonia, nor did she do it on the highway there at Dulbab. There are 350 thousand unemployed, pensioners who can hardly wait for the 10th day of the month, almost 100 thousand people who are still working and have not received salaries, and apparently that regardless of the effectiveness of this property tax, Croatia cannot be started. In my view, the only thing that can get Croatia out of, not only of this economic crisis, and I think of the political crisis, is, above all, decentralisation and not only political, but fiscal decentralisation, and in a way that does not significantly violate the foundations of the state in fiscal terms, that this whole property tax goes to local self-government units, that income tax also goes to local self-government units, and that is why I am here, so I am sorry that there is not a new finance minister here, of which the HDZ expects much, I personally do not. On the other hand, for existing the state fiscally, therefore for these decentralised functions they could be compensated from the profit tax, which was also proposed by this ministry, although it was then headed by Minister Schuker, the only intention was to make that profit tax excluded from the city of Zagreb, since it was paid towards the headquarters of the company, and it was also anti-constitutional, because the profit tax should be paid either by the head of the population of the Republic of Croatia or where it was realized. So the profit tax would be divided into thirds towards the state, according to regional self-government, and according to local self-government from which all decentralised functions could then be financed. Today is the worst situation right now for Slavonia, thanks to this tax system, to the full centralization of the state, because regardless of the various ministries, we now see that here the former ministers who will probably understand this job better, regardless of the funds, black, white, for this or that development, for the make-up, etc., almost all the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors were forced, regardless of the projects some of which entered and into the pre-accession European Union funds, were forced to break the thresholds of such ministries, but the same ministries, the same funds were distributed to those units of local self-government, and it was mostly where the ruling party, the coalition partner was in power, so one vote in the Assembly was worth 40 million kuna, 5 million kuna. On the other hand, according to the units of local self-government, which were representatives of national minorities, and who were the only ones who entered the state budget, which is primarily one contradiction of the budget itself, but also the whole tax system. This may be one of the last moments that the ministry, if it really remembers that today in Croatia, there is indeed one state of complete indifference, one huge internal debt, that by changing and decentralising Croatia, it starts not only the possibility of developing a unit of local self-government, but also to trigger the possibility of developing a Croatian economy, right through fiscal decentralisation and enabling and hiring new jobs. This current system, which I am responsible for, is not only possible for the tax administration to have, so I would also say to the Ministry itself that there are two criteria for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I also point out the public question of how many unpaid claims are at this point, not only by the sales tax on real estate, but also by the value added tax which I did not mention here, although at that decentralisation, for example. neighbouring BiH is heading towards local and regional self-government. So, I'd like all the parliamentary deputies to get a list of all the debtors for the unpaid VAT, and not to be that grandmother who now has to sell kamak or cheese in windows or eggs in the market or market, but only let them be over a million kuna. Because I'm afraid that those left in line don't pay to belong primarily to certain political structures that are somewhat and protected, so over a long period of years, they are practically pro-longed by paying their commitments. There are examples that are known so I said in that replica that I don't care if my dad's sons paid taxes but I wonder if my dad's dads paid taxes because apparently dads don't pay taxes, I won't mention moms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66880	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He says that the mayors, the mayors, the mayors had to break the thresholds of the ministries, talk about us Slavons, too, here in Zagreb to reach some church, some money for our cities and municipalities, and that the funds were shared, that is, the money as he says according to where HDZ is in power. That's not true, pal. For years, i.e. 2004, the ministries have been reviewing competitions, projects, programmes as well as Croatian Waters and various funds, and we all have the opportunity to run. Both you and I in Djakova in Pakrac and colleagues, I don't know in Kutjevo, where the mayor of SDP is also in Lipik where the mayor of HDZ is in Osijek and we all get funding. It is no one's fault, for example the town of Požega or similar cities, which according to the ministries do not go with any programs, which have no relationship with the ministries... I'm talking an example, you may be a better example, but I know a lot of funding is going to Djakov from the state budget. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's not an obstacle to the party and party membership, it's a good programme that the ministries approve of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66882	Madam Representative Biserka Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66883	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Tax is actually one of the first laws to be amended or adapted to modern times. A long-standing experience in the work of local self-government confirms to me that the change of tax laws is very difficult, that it goes very slowly and that no matter what authority it is that will always have difficulties in implementing and interpreting the law. This is about a simple law that's the Law on Real Estate Tax, which is actually the beginning of modernization of our Tax Administration's work. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia is an out-of-date institution that collects taxes and all activities still operate under laws that are relatively old and some date back to the '90s. A year. And this is the 1997 law that actually shows a disproportionateity between tax administrations in small cities, major cities and the big city. I support any change, even if it's one step in change and so on. establish one balance and equality of all tax administrations in the Republic of Croatia. Because of this imbalance and inequality, because of the different teamwork of tax administrations, we in smaller cities have been cut off for a very simple reason. Tax administrations in small cities are efficient, fast, simple and solve problems very quickly. They shall adopt a solution within 30 days and the party shall either object or pay that tax. The tax administration in Zagreb or in large centres brings these solutions to a range of 3 to 6 months or more so that the party can also stall, can simply pay taxes due to too much time, perhaps not this year, but next and what happens to us on the ground? The property owners report in Zagreb because they then come for inspections maybe once in 3.4 years, and if they are registered in a smaller Tax Administration such as Jaska, Ozalj or some other smaller centre, those taxpayers are under the control of the Tax Administration can say not daily, but at least monthly. This resulted in the departure of a large number of entrepreneurs from small centres to Zagreb and created some problems for us because they also use infrastructure and cheap labour and pay taxes elsewhere. I support any change and any modernisation of the IRS because this is one start that will introduce order and make so-called. a stable, fair and fair tax system. We are witnessing that developed democracy this tax system has been developing for decades, perhaps centuries some if we look at the tax systems of European countries they are very old and they have adapted to the time in which we live. We should have a simple, clear and applicable law, and then we would not be in a situation to apply some articles like this or to interpret it. In any case, this law is on the trail of some direction towards economic recovery if we want to. It also contributes to speeding up procedures in the Tax Administration, creating so-called the real market value of real estate, which is important to all of us, is in order to have a catalogue of real estate and that we really know what the real estate market is like in smaller centres, in smaller centres or in large centres. Also, these properties will be entered into the system and we will have tomorrow a quality developed system that will not allow individual or any personal evaluations of whether something is valuable, is not and should be changed. And I also think that maybe this law will not get some results right away because Croatia is now in a situation where we have a reduction in real estate traffic and I don't think that there are any major financial results regarding both filling the state budget and filling the local budget will be seen now. However, some laws still have to be passed for the future and I think we're on to it. So I support this proposal, although all this can be discussed, many articles can be changed and there is a possibility of different interpretation and seeing things, but every beginning, and the beginning of a change in the age of tax administration and the tax system has to start once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66884	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66885	A man lifts this correction to an incorrect quote, then I should be the one who hurts the Rules of Procedure, but I'll also replicate my colleague, but I'll also be a representative of the Huška. He knows that what he said doesn't match the truth, given then I won't even comment on it, and that's what anyone else who isn't in these political groups can confirm. And to my colleague, that I would not talk about the limitations of the tax administration, but above all about the limitation of the tax system and that Croatia with its 350 thousand unemployed, with so many pensioners who survive the end, there is no time to wait for the future, it needs not only the present and the present is not solved only by one cosmetic change, additions and the Law but also by the full reform of all possible laws so that everyone in Croatia, especially in Slavonia, in particular local self-government units, and in eastern and western Slavonia, in all Slavonia, and even these rainbows who did not live through this highway, would allow even development, which would enable the entry and Slavonia together with Croatia, not on their knees but upright in that great European Union, not to say another word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66886	Replica reply, Ms. Biserka Vranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66887	I agree with my colleague everything he said, however, we must be realistic, in 15 articles of a law where amendments are proposed and complements we cannot change what was 10th and more years not wrong, but simply was one system that did not change in time. However, every start is important and if we talk about real estate tax, I think this law is going towards improving, it does not solve all problems but is going towards a direction that will improve the tax system both this and the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66888	And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66889	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I've been thinking long and long, whether or not in this debate, I'm only going to talk about the part where I'm regulated to pay real estate tax when I'm buying my first real estate. The fact is that these amendments to the Law are more clear in this part are the very conditions, and that is good, but I feel the need for you and your colleagues from the Ministry, but all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to warn us that what was the initial idea was when we made it easier to pay taxes on real estate, i.e. its release in the purchase of the first real estate to which man solves his residential question, therefore, that the fundamental idea, when we introduced this Law in 2002, i.e. by applying 1. 1. In 2003, in fact, after almost seven years of application, we still haven't found an adequate solution to actually target the people to whom this measure is somehow intended. This measure is good and it is indeed a great help, one quite large number of young people, at least those who come in this way or in the opportunity to acquire real estate. But we haven't found a good solution yet, I hope we'll find opportunities. What is it about colleagues and colleagues? When a young single person, and the fact is that more people stay alone longer, he or she buys a smaller apartment as a rule. For two reasons, the first reason why there is simply no money for the larger one, can't get a loan for a bigger apartment, and ultimately there's no need, is mostly for younger people who, in terms of working status, are mostly in traineeship jobs, with smaller incomes, mostly on contracts at a certain time, can't even get bigger loans to buy a bigger apartment. So the person buys a smaller apartment, it's the first real estate and there's a tax exemption on real estate. But the problem arises over several years, I repeat, the whole idea was to make life easier for the citizens and, in some ways, to get into life. Over the years, a person gets married and has children and, of course, a 40 square-square apartment she bought like that of her first apartment for which she was exempt from paying sales taxes on real estate is not enough and buys an apartment of, say, 70 squares that according to these criteria and from this Act is for a three-member family. At that time he cannot use a relief and pay taxes on real estate, therefore, although at that time buying this other apartment does not actually have adequate real estate in view of the size of his family and in some ways has not solved his living problem permanently. We can say well why the person didn't buy a bigger apartment. Even though a single person immediately bought an 80-square apartment for her future guessed four-square family, he still has to pay taxes or one part of that tax, because for a single man he has a 50-square limit. So, ultimately, the idea of helping younger people, younger families at the beginning of life, or one more productive part of life, and in one and the other scenarios, they have to pay part of the real estate tax, and we still have no answers to that. I was when we last changed this Law and when we first brought it and in one case, I wrote amendments to actually the first real estate, the word first replaces "the only" real estate, so the only real estate that permanently solves the housing issue, and relative to the size of the family. I think we can agree that 45 square meters is not an adequate housing issue for a three-member family or a four-member family because this fundamental idea was that we had passed the Law. So it's clear to me that these things are difficult to define in the law, perhaps even in this law, but I think we need to find a solution simply to follow both logic and reality of life. The logic of real life. Because now, unfortunately, not in any of the other scenarios, and the third one actually doesn't, the law doesn't follow. Of course, the real estate will all agree, almost, one of the almost basic and basic conditions of the people for the creation of the family, for the formation of a family and especially in Croatia in which the real estate market has not actually been developed. We actually have a large number of people the only way to actually have the kind of security in life is to buy real estate, which is, say, out in the first few years of life, to say the least, there's a developed real estate market that offers safety. We don't have that real estate rental market developed, it's not well regulated, and that's something that needs to be regulated, and then people have to go shopping right away and then we have deviations like I said at the beginning. So, on the one hand, maybe a little after a full 7 years of application it takes me to say... these measures or regulations relating to the release of real estate taxes, but one part of the solution can be found in the regulation of the real estate market. I think that then one large number of younger families or younger people who are primarily meant to solve a good part of the problem. And one more thing, namely, along with various political ones or such recommendations, tax reliefs on housing loans were lifted this summer. I'm not going to talk about the reasons why it was abolished or why it wasn't lifted but it's about this topic. This abolition struck a large number of younger families, mostly young people. Of course no one, I agree with those who spoke today, that no one decided to buy an apartment because of the relief. Of course not. However, in the situation that was when they took up credit, they counted on these reliefs. My colleagues and colleagues, it means not paying 12 a year but 11 or 10 wars. Depending on the size of the loan. And unlike the state that we obviously see not seriously in some way plan families and plan their finances seriously, in this sense long-term, long-term sustainability and ultimately count on some money. And that's not good. So, in addition to some clarity in tax regulations and I repeat in this part, it's good that one part of it is clearer, but it seems to me that it's still not optimally settled, so other than clarity in tax regulations, there needs to be some kind of sustainability or some kind of continuity of solution, that when people go to some investments, they know what they have at their disposal, under what conditions they will be able to handle with their assets and the money at their disposal, that I'm not actually repeating the whole story about the conditions of raising housing loans that are really very unfavorable. You'll sign the black devil in a contract just to get that loan, because otherwise it's not easy to get it, then of course... signed in the contract. And a changing interest rate and one-sided change, but to you it's the only chance of a lifetime, you have no other choice. And here I repeat, the state has to introduce mechanisms to protect the citizens. My colleagues and colleagues, at the end of the debate, only three other remarks related to this law. One is that the application of this law and tax on real estate especially in this part of the release and where property is important and some history to say ownership, a prerequisite is a condition in land books. While you can't sign up for land books or wait for 10 years, you can easily get confirmation that you have nothing, but actually you have nothing, and you don't have a country because the state didn't get to sign it up. So, arranged land books. And another note. In our laws of Family Law, marriage and extramarital communities are legally defined. Our tax code speaks exclusively of the marriage community, although it seems to me we should apply to the extramarital community especially in this part as part of the conditions for the release of real estate and all other meeting conditions. And lastly, I'm hoping to get a little tied up to that debate Friday that I had about income tax. So, I hope that very soon we will be able to electronically pride all these applications, so we have not yet reached that stage, but that system will only start to create in this segment and in some way when it is created to be made so that people, regardless of what IT platforms are used, can fulfil their obligation, not force them to format these applications so that they can be made to be tolerated exclusively from a microsoft package or company programme. In the end, it is good that some are really clearer, but I warn that I still have a problem with making it easier for young families and young individuals despite these changes, and there is no scenario in which when a young person solves for himself and his family the issue can be freed from paying that tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66890	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66891	All of what you've been saying, and on your own in favour of young families, the government simply doesn't accept, even though it has and boasts about its population policy. So, like you said, young people don't start a family just because they don't have a settled housing issue and they can buy eventually when the whole family helps, they can buy a little apartment that sure when they start a family won't be adequate for them. But the government doesn't care about that at all, and I believe that you didn't even think of it. Because comparing two laws is already too much, and especially with some kind of strategy and so shouldn't expect it. It is especially noted that we are a dying nation and the biggest problem of young families, or those who would like to start a family that has no settled housing issue. That is why it is a question of wit and your wisdom to accept such a proposal, so instead of the first real estate, like you colleagues Lugarić suggest, that it be the only real estate and only in such a way can you at least partially live up to a population policy that has so far remained a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66892	Final review of State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66893	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. I really appreciate the quality of the debate. I'd like to answer a few questions. The answer to the esteemed representative, Damir Kajin, who remarked that the application of real estate tax does not require data on the sources of real estate funds. However, when reporting real estate, it is mandatory to report sources of funds. The first implementation of the OIB that follows us from the system is already here. And if it turns out that there are no proper sources of funds, just give the information information and it needs to be checked. So the procedure under Article 63 has been opened and has already started, so one of the first uses of the OIB is in the application for real estate. On the question of the esteemed representative, Chuhnil, why was the provision to pay the tax before the entry was suspended by the Constitutional Court, but remained bound by the Law on Land Books that the court had to inform us unless the tax was paid and unless the tax was accidentally cut we go into tax cuts. And here I have to point out once again that the obligation to apply for real estate is a taxpayer and he has to report within 30 days and if he doesn't report it then he's in violation. But it is also the obligation of the public notaries to report real estate contracts to us as well as the court according to the judgments in the land books. But that doesn't prevent the taxpayer's obligation, he has to report it, and this is just another check and unless it's registered to me on the basis of contracts delivered to us by public notebooks, we're going again and we're looking for taxpayers to report our tax obligations. What we talked about most is the application and this exemption from real estate tax when buying the first real estate. I must say that it was introduced by amendments to the law in 2002, in the application of 2003, I must say that even the first release of 50 squares in order to be able to discuss whether it is large or not for a single person or not, that is also what to think about, and what we will certainly take care that it is released not by squares, not by value, means that this release if it is bought an apartment of 5000 euros that should not be released for all. So that's what we're going to discuss and discuss, which we're really going to take care of with the next changes. But I still have to say here, the same subject that we've talked a lot about, and that's buying and land and real estate at those lower prices, the benefited prices, and not to be taxed on. If there was a sale of that property, if the agricultural land was purchased and it was refurbished and there was a sale, I have to tell you within three years, that income tax is then charged at 25%. So this should be taken into account, perhaps, when changing income taxes, that period from three years to maybe five years. Also, if the property was bought at a lower price and sold at a higher price within three years, the income tax on property is also determined and accounted for at a rate of 25%. Also, in view of the assumption that there is no time limit for a solution. We must say that the General Administrative Procedure Act is prescribed that a solution must be made within 30 days, and especially if the procedures are complex within 60 days. It is about instructive deadlines that should be observed if possible. All this information goes for us to abide by these deadlines and to be able to bring them within those deadlines, also those deadlines in the second degree, also in the solution of complaints and the Administrative Court, is all that would make it easier for all of us, and especially for the tax administration, to work and if they were brought much faster. One topic you've also discussed a lot, which is the application of the OIB. I have to say that the full application of the OIB in tax procedures has begun, not yet until the end, but it has already begun. Thanks to the establishment of the information exchange, we already have the ability to see the founders and members of companies, also the monitoring of related societies, the exchange of information on property and cars, securities, stakes, airplanes and movements that we can gain, that data exchange in a few seconds. Networked institutions report to the tax administration and interesting data. So if we have some real estate purchases over certain values, cars, and data we get and we're already going to control the procurement procedures, sources of funds for the purchase of that property. We also associate with institutions that keep property data, real estate records, records of the vessel. As far as real estate records are concerned, we hope that we will be able to obtain these data very quickly, especially for those who have entered the OIB in their records. As far as real estate is concerned, I must also point out that we are now using a large number of real estate data because you have learned about it, and this law stipulates that real estate is run by the tax administration, that we are establishing solutions to the traffic of real estate, and that the data from our records we are now using and we will use, of course, further and further. I hope that very quickly real estate records from land books will also be available and then full implementation of the OIB will really come to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66894	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Tax Act was an emergency procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would like a representative of the motionary, Secretary of State Zdravko Maric, to be shown about the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66896	The amendment of the Finance Committee is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66897	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We have an amendment from Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66898	The government does not accept this amendment. In the light of the provisions of Article 12 of the existing Real Estate Tax Act, the envisaged exemption from the payment of real estate tax when the real estate is entered into the company as a founding stock or an increase in the underlying capital, which means that this exemption can be achieved by the persons carrying out the activity of the craft. In addition, crafts as such do not have legal personality or property and property are referred to as a natural person, so as the amendment is formulated. In fact, it goes beyond the scope of the law itself, because it is also about the activity and the total pension. The proposal to amend and supplement the Real Estate Tax Act concerns, of course, property and sale and real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66899	This is on Mr. Zdravko Ronko's 1st amendment, to Article 8. Mr. Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66900	Well, it's practically gone and gone. I'm saying that we have a status change with a company in any company that is a status change, then we're free of real estate tax, and when we have a trade, we're not when we bring in the real estate itself. Since they're also exempt from value added tax and profit tax, I think we should settle this here. So I'd like to ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66901	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Amendment 2 of the same agent. Here you go. On Article 13, the same amendment of Agent Ronk to Article 13? This is the proposal for Article 13 to be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66902	Yeah. Right. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66903	The amendment of the Committee on the State Budget and Finance was adopted and consumed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Let's get involved and vote. The result? With 91 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, he passed the proposed law, along with the amendments accepted. The Committee on Gender Equality proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "In support of the Advocate General's Initiative on Gender Equality, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with preparing a proposal of the General Tax Law in line with the Law on Gender Equality". Secretary of State, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66904	The government does not accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66905	Thank you. I am voting on this proposal for the conclusion of the Committee. Who's up for this one? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Please. ... The rules when the proposal is concluded. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now it's obvious. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66906	I have to react. Because at the board meeting, we proposed this conclusion unanimously. So, together with colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, because the representative of the committee's proposal specifically said that the government only doubts whether it will go with the amendment to this proposal now to amend and supplement or will be resolved through the General Tax Law, as other parties must be resolved. And then we decided that we would then come to that conclusion and propose to the Croatian Parliament, and now you are completely different from the one who defended the proposal at the committee session. I'm sorry, but I had to say it here, even if you agree as a proposing before your representatives come to the committee meetings. Then we could react differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66907	Who is the conclusion of this proposal one more time? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the next point - Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 700 discussions were conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does Secretary of State of Finance Ivica Mladneo want to further explain the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66909	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have before us a Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland. The delegations of the Republic of Croatia and Iceland met at negotiations in Zagreb from 16 August to 19 August 2005. During the negotiations, the Contracting Party agreed on the application of the name of the contract, which reads: the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. The contract was signed in Zagreb on 6 July 2010. We apply the model contract of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to the conclusion of this contract. The Treaty has made it easier to tax all types of income, as well as to improve the conditions for increasing the mutual exchange of goods and services, and to increase the degree of overall economic activity of both countries as follows. The concept of resident is defined, thus avoiding double taxation of Croatian residents, but also preventing the avoidance of income tax avoidance. It is possible for Croatian construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in Iceland if the works last less than 12 months. It is possible for Croatian airlines and shipping companies carrying out the transport of goods between Croatia and Iceland to pay taxes on the profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The final provisions of this treaty stipulate that Croatian societies in Iceland will have the same status and convenience as those of the state. The joint agreement process is an opportunity for any problem both created or threatened case of double taxation of the state to be negotiated directly without the participation of diplomatic authorities to contribute to the acceleration and resolution of these problems. The article on the exchange of information is an effective means of combating tax avoidance. So, avoiding paying any taxes. There you go, sir. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66910	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66911	So, if I understand correctly, the State Secretary's delegation met in 2005. The contract signed in 2010, and this is the second month of 2011. I think that's enough to talk about haste, so here's the correcting of an incorrect quote because there's no other option for me to call this. Obviously, these six years were then in action, I hope it's not a large amount except for two, three handball players or football players who are in Iceland. But apparently they had the opportunity to avoid paying taxes on income.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66912	The committees? Legislative, financial, state budget. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66913	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary and Associates. Here is one in a series of such laws, and today we are discussing the Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax with the final proposal of the law which will, of course, support the Croatian Democratic Community club. This agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance shall regulate ways to avoid double taxation of income and profits. The contract allows Croatian construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in Iceland if these works last less than 12 months. Taxation of profits from business is generally carried out by the state of residence of a company as we have heard from the State Secretary in the opening statement except in the case of the existence of a permanent establishment. Croatian airlines and maritime companies carrying out the transport of goods or passengers between our country and Iceland pay taxes on the profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The contract lowers the rates for passive income compared to the existing rates prescribed by domestic laws, so that interest and copyright fees are taxed at 10% on the source. The dividends are taxed at a rate of 5% when the real user is a company other than a partnership in which the original ownership of at least 10% of the company’s capital is paid by a dividend and by a rate of 10% in all other cases. The current taxes to which this contract applies are, in particular, income tax, income tax and income tax tax taxes in Croatia and any other addition that is collected on one of these taxes. Also in Iceland. These are income tax to the state and income tax to municipal administrations. So far, Croatia has signed 47 contracts to avoid double taxation and prevent income tax evasion. After the decision of the Croatian Parliament, this will be 48 contracts of this kind, and we hope that it will also contribute to further development of international, economic cooperation, facilitate our economies, owners from Iceland who are operating with Croatia. And of course I repeat once again that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66914	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66915	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club, HSU, will support this proposal for a bill to confirm the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland because it achieves three things. First of all, we want to say that it is not only an agreement on avoidance of double taxation but also an agreement that will prevent tax evasion, but also an agreement that will put our company in an equal position when competing for various works that will be carried out in the countries with which we have concluded such bilateral agreements. Therefore, it should be valorized. What bothers us a little is that we've never, and we've already looked for it countless times in front of the club, never did the promoter give us basic economic data from which they would see how real it would be for these contracts, how much our companies are doing in this case in Iceland. How many of their companies are working in us or any other form of economic cooperation. What kind of trade is it? We don't have any information here. I gave myself so much effort and went through a little bit of Iceland, literature and they were similar to us in one element related to 2009, they had a negative economic growth of 6.8%, but they don't match us in anything else. They have a gross social product per capita of $38,000. They have 25% higher exports than imports. They're a typical example of a country where the financial crisis has gone to the economic crisis, it seems to me the other way around. That is why they will likely recover quickly and not have such an agreement with them. What I'd like to say is, and my colleague just said it, we're also bothered by the slowness in ratifying international contracts. If they are signed by the government, then there is no reason not to come to the Parliament's meetings relatively quickly. We expect tomorrow, when we conclude a bilateral agreement with the European Union, to put that point and ratification at the 27-nation first session very quickly. We have an example here where we didn't do it immediately, and the next point will show us that it's been 11 years since the signing of the agreement to its ratification. Furthermore, I want to say colleagues and colleagues, you remember very well that Iceland has recognized us first, and we have decided after a full 20 years or 19 years and 1 month to make such an agreement with them. So that bothers me to say, and the dynamic itself is such that we succeeded, and this is a model, this is a pattern, a UN pattern and... the form of the conclusion of such agreements. [[You don't understand.]] We know that in the United Nations we have 192 Member States, so far we have signed an agreement with 47 of them, so this dynamic will make bilateral agreements with all other countries over the next 60 years. That may not be bad, but we will probably solve some of our economic problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66916	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66917	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's true and it's good here's what my colleague mentioned that Iceland was the first to recognise Croatia, but we couldn't do it on our own terms the second day or I don't know within what short time to go to this bilateral negotiation, signing, proposing such an agreement, contract. There's a procedure, there's a way to do it, and right now there's a possibility of signing such a contract, and I believe that we're all going to support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66918	HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. More than 20 years ago, we were pleased with the news that the first country to recognise Croatia was Iceland, so for exactly 20 years, and here almost a month ago. So good news has arrived from northern Europe, from Reykjavik that Iceland recognises Croatia as an independent and independent state, although it has not been recognised by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia which says it became independent on October 8, 1991. Unfortunately. I'm afraid so. It is now our turn to be the 48th country in line with which Croatia makes an approximately identical agreement on avoidance of double taxation, income tax and property, to prevent tax evasion and to enable our companies to deal with Iceland, let me say in a positive way. So I'd like to know, as well as Mr. Doric, from the secretary of state or from some others here, are there really certain indications that certain jobs will be done or done in Iceland, so maybe that's why here's the rush or hastily put this on the agenda? It has been 5 years since the first meeting of the Croatian and Icelandic delegation and more than half a year since the signing of the agreement between the Government of Iceland and the Republic of Croatia, so on 6 July 2010, the State Secretary. It seems that when handball games are played between Iceland and the Republic of Croatia at world championships, there are also certain contacts between governments and delegations of the Republic of Croatia and Iceland, so here is the last game between Croatia and Iceland in Sweden, it is also likely to contribute to putting this on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, although it could have been significantly earlier, given the contacts that Croatia and Iceland have had, given that the delegations that were signed in 2005 and 2010, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Iceland. Unfortunately, last year, we were very often reported in the media that Iceland was in the great financial difficulties that have spread to Iceland's economy, but I'm not afraid for Iceland with the kind of data that was very well promoted and delivered by Mr. Doric with a gross social product of $38,000 per capita, with exports that are larger than imports, although in Iceland there is little that can be successful in terms of agriculture, etc., except for fishing, but here is a gross social product, and exports that is larger than imports, so we are not in the same position, I think we are in a more difficult position. Regardless of this, given the possible greater and the potential to say air carriers and maritime connections, given that Iceland and the maritime state as well as Croatia are still, and given the possibilities for mutual cooperation both in construction and in certain other branches, and I would like to know whether there are concrete plans and certain indications of mutual cooperation in this regard. Unfortunately, I did not read them on the Internet, as did Mr. Doric, anywhere else. But here's a legal proposal, which somehow goes in a way that would say everything in order, like in Slavonia in the weddings, so it's on the agenda, and here's Iceland that first recognized us next to all those countries that are listed and with which it's already concluded a contract based on a succession with, so the state of the former Yugoslavia, here's Iceland's turn to sign a deal with it. It is clear that the HDSSB club, given such friendly relations and such, to say Croatia's sympathies with Iceland, will have no objection to such a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66920	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct my colleague Grubisic's misstatement regarding the deadlines in which this contract was concluded. I know from my own experience working at the state administration that Croatia wanted with all countries with which it was previously under duress, as well as with many others to sign such agreements, but the agreement needs two. On the other hand, there should be an interest in making such an agreement. In this case, as in many others, it has nothing to do with friendly relationships that have always been really excellent and we will certainly not get a hold of this in international relations with Iceland, so on the Icelandic side there was no specific time after the first contact there was an interest to make. The moment they responded to our offer that contract was concluded. And as for the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts, it is very complex, very complex and it is one of the answers why some of the contracts that come to our table from the time of signing to the time when such a contract has been ratified for a long time. That is not the agreement mentioned by counterpart Doric. So 11 years doesn't last. But if we need to change something then we should change the procedure of our legislation because it really takes a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66922	And Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66923	Dear counterpart Grubisic forgot to say that we met with Iceland both at the European Championship and at the Olympics and that probably for the long term of this procedure we will probably not get international pucks from Iceland, but I'm afraid we've already received from the EU for some other things and that we probably won't enter the EU in the year ahead of the elections, and the question is how we do it and coordinate maybe we could, there was one series of the Universe in 1999, so maybe instead of joining the EU, we could join the universe in 2999.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66924	An individual debate. Madam Representative Bianca Matkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what fellow MPs have already said is Iceland as the first country to recognise us since '91, but over the past few years, an interest in strengthening economic relations, bilateral relations between these two countries, means Croatia and Iceland. So I am very pleased that today's contract is in front of us and that we can vote on its adoption and of course I will support it primarily for the reasons that several Croatian companies have had an interest in the past few years, and there are also today, reporting for international competitions and winning competitions. Similarly in the last 9 months last year, the total trade between Croatia and Iceland was 2.3 million, which is 41% more than in 2009. As regards common areas of possible cooperation, which is why this agreement is indeed welcome, these are primarily the transfer of experience from the area of renewable energy exploitation. Here I primarily think of the interest of Icelandic investors in the Republic of Croatia around geothermal sources, geo Podravina, Slatine and Virovitica alike. Also, there is the possibility of cooperation in the field of tourism knowhow industry in fish production and I am extremely glad that Icelandic investors have started investing in wood industry in Croatia. I'm mentioning this to you all for a reason to tell you why it's important to make such agreements on the avoidance of double taxation. So far, as we have heard 47 have been brought in and Croatia has concluded or taken over them and I am really glad that Iceland has come to order after so many years. But also, if I can appeal to the secretary of state, I ask you to find agreements with Libya and Kazakhstan on the agenda soon, given the interests of our companies and the business that they have there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66926	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Interrupting session, 15 o'clock with point 4. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational programme "Employment of Human Potentials" to assist the community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Employment of Human Potentials" component in Croatia. Point 3 for the treason of the proposing representative, we will later. The final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and Iceland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax is an emergency procedure. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? 97 for and 1 for the abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66928	My colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we continue our afternoon work, as announced with the - Final Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Multi-annual Operational Programme "Development of Human Potentials" to assist the community in the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Development of Human Potentials" component in Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 693. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In establishing the agenda, we accepted that this Law should be discussed in an urgent procedure and in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The Committee's reports were received at the session. On behalf of the promoter here is Hrvoje Dolenc State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66929	One of the many years of operational programmes in IPA, so the development of human potential. Several facts are important to highlight in the introduction to this debate. Therefore, this Agreement, or the proposal for this Act, brings us an agreement that represents amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in December 2008 and then for the 2007/2009 budgetary period. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In other words, these amendments and additions give Croatia an additional 31.7m euros or 234.6m kuna, in this multiannual implementation of this multiannual operational agreement from IPA funds. By increasing the total value of this operational programme, the development of human potential for the period 2007 to 2011 amounts to €609.5 million, or €82.3 million, of which IPA is a grant of €69.9 million or €517 million, while other €12.3 million or €91.4 million is provided by the state budget and those bodies implementing this operational programme, namely the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Science, Education, Sport, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the bodies involved in this implementation as the Croatian Employment Institute. This Agreement was signed in December of last year, delivered to everyone, is another important step in the good co-operation that we have with the European Commission in the part of the use of these funds, so we have full assistance and support from the European Commission, and only a few words except that we get additional resources for implementing measures under this operational programme, and measures or priorities in this operational programme concern improving employment access measures and sustainable inclusion in the labour market, strengthening social inclusion, integration of persons who have difficulty accessing the labour market, measures for vocational and lifelong education and, of course, a part dedicated to strengthening the administrative capacity of bodies managing this programme for the management of European money and for future structural funds. It is important to say that we have requested an emergency procedure for two reasons, except that the Agreement has been agreed between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission which can no longer be changed, at the same time it enables the payment of, or the arrival of, advance funds for the implementation of this operational programme and helps to implement measures under this operational programme. Here, so much for the introduction, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66930	Thank you very much for the introduction. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to come forward? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. In the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished colleague Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. From 2007 until Croatia's membership, there is an IPA programme that combines all previous pre-accession programmes, while at the same time giving an emphasis in some way on new areas. One of these areas is "The Development of Human Potentials" which the IPA segment is dealing with in the Agreement that we are now discussing. While in earlier programmes this segment was represented by individual projects, only the IPA has systematically come to this area and because it has proved to be a systematic and coordinated approach to human potential development through a specific operational programme, it is significant that economic criteria for economic development and social cohesion are met on the one hand, and on the other hand, the implementation of this programme has significant potential to contribute to the overall economic recovery. That this is thus evidenced by the fact that, in times of economic crisis in the members of the European Union, exactly the European Social Fund is mentioned as one of the trustees to help get out of the crisis, and the Republic of Croatia is preparing itself through the IPA segment to develop human potentials for the use of these funds. This will lead to projects that are in different ways aimed at the efficiency of the labour market, which aims at the ultimate goal of reducing unemployment. The priorities of this operational programme include improving access to employment and labour market reintegration, strengthening social inclusion of persons who have difficulty accessing the labour market, improving human capital and employability, strengthening the institutional efficiency of public administration in the social field and employment, and supporting the development of administrative capacity to implement this operational programme. From the above, it is clear that it is an extremely significant programme that will have a positive impact on employment in the long term, and on the other hand it has good effects for extremely sensitive social groups. This programme is worth 609 thousand 453 thousand 189 kuna over a period of 5 years, the largest part of which or 85% is EU grants and 15% is the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The financing agreement is a standard content agreement and as such defines the conditions of use of aid, and when confirmed in the Assembly, it will become a legal basis for receiving funds from the Operational Programme for Human Resources Development for an additional two financial years, i.e. until Croatia enters the EU. And in the end, although not only important, Croatia will manage the funds from this programme by so-called. a decentralised model, which means that our institutions will largely manage these funds on their own. Due to the importance of this programme for the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66932	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66933	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and HSU representatives' club will support this bill and for reasons as mentioned by a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club is important for the Republic of Croatia for reasons such as the State Secretary, which is particularly important to enable the payment of EU funds by means of a programme which the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, and in order to understand this operational programme and the area covered by this operational programme, I will read the objective set out in this proposal of the law, the objective of this operational programme, i.e. to increase the number of new and more high-quality jobs, I stress, increase investment in human capital as well, strengthen social inclusion and promote the flexibility of companies and workers, we also stress, the next national and strategic EU documents related to them. The operational programme Human Resources Development aims to prepare Croatian institutions for EU accession and contribute to the achievement of priorities and not to read them now, you have all had the opportunity to read it and I believe you have read it. This programme will also have a positive impact in terms of preparations for EU use, which will be available to the Republic of Croatia after EU membership. Always so far, whenever I spoke personally about any item of the agenda related to the funds any existing, any one that would be able to use on behalf of the HNS Club as well as all the members of our club, we stressed the need for preparation and institutional and any other necessary, and in order to make the resources available to us and the resources available to us can be used in as significant an amount as possible. Especially when I'm talking about IPA only where we've been successful so far, it's the first component, help and transition in institution building. That's where we used almost everything and that's good, unlike all the others, only there. Why did we use that well? We strengthened our institutions with the basis of the services needed, which were necessary for foreign consultants. And that's logical, and that's normal, and that's what we're going to have, and that's where we're going to have a chance to take advantage of one day when we join the EU when our consultants will also be consultants to future members and EU candidates. However, it is not good when we take this argument as an assessment of the success of using funds from pre-accession funds in this pre-accession time. That's not good. Because in other operational programs, we're bad. And that should be made clear and loud, we're bad. It's a warning, not a criticism of what's waiting for us. In this specific operational programme, the development of human potentials that we are discussing according to the criteria that define our success, and in order to get accreditation, we are the best here. In the Operational Programme, human development and human resources are the best. We have practically transferred all the criteria around the notice of competition in accordance with the deadline set out in the procurement plan and in particular in the tender in accordance with the deadlines set out in the procurement plan, the contracts prescribed within the deadline, the value of the tenders published, a little less in the contract amount, but unlike the other operational programmes, we are excellent and good. Therefore, in any case, that structure which manages this operational programme, unlike other operational programmes, and I would like to particularly highlight the Operational Programme Transport, the Operational Programme Environmental Protection and in some ways regional competitiveness, these people have done their part of the job. However, when I talk about this operational programme as with others, we at the HNS and HSU club want to particularly highlight the present problem, and this is a lack of personnel to implement the operational programme. And now my question is to the Secretary of State, did the Government of the Republic of Croatia respect its decision to hire new people? I understand that we are teamed up to run operational programmes from the IPA, but since these same people are working to prepare for structural and cohesion funds, that's not good. And now my question is, has the Government of the Republic of Croatia respected its decision to hire the necessary people by making the most of these people's salaries available means of technical assistance? So there's really nothing controversial about it. It's really not a dispute, but it's a dispute whether we want to and will and are we effective in implementation? The next question is when I am talking about this operational programme, and it has been observed in communication with potential users or with users of this operational programme, not as much in this IPA programme as in what is being prepared and how to use the European Social Fund when we enter the European Union, when we become members, and that is whether we have defined and how we have defined and whether they even know minority groups that will be able to use operational programmes. Have we established concrete priority measures for sectors that will go through reconstruction, I am talking about the economy. For shipbuilding we know that we are not, it is known that for those extra employees who will appear in shipbuilding that we have not exploited the potential of this operational programme and not to talk about the next one, to provide them with something that will give them the possibility of further employment and further insurance of existence through work. Surely one of the key problems is the lack of our sectoral and economic strategy because we still do not have these sectoral and economic strategies. The economy ministry has not yet come up with an industrial strategy. We expected the new minister, the fresh minister who is no longer fresh, we expected something like that, the more that comes from the profession, from the HUP, means from an association that understands or should understand that system. However, we have no industrial strategies, we have no sectoral and economic strategies. It is therefore logical to expect that in this segment we will be less successful or better said to be unsuccessful because something that is present, which is known to everyone, which is when we talk about the possibilities of using the benefits provided by this operational programme, not so much of the IPA, from pre-accession assistance as later as we become a member, which is the financing of project documentation or the necessary project documentation for project preparation. Local and regional government units don't have any money. Even those who have don't get into it. And in this sense, our proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that for all those local projects that come from units of local and regional self-government, for those projects that will be accepted to finance the European Union's funds, that the Government from the central state budget provides the funds that will be, I'm talking about structural funds, I'm not talking about this because here the government provides, for these governments, for pre-accession governments. However, in structural when we enter there is a category of own participation that the municipality, the city, the county that must provide, they do not have. Since the next point is on the subject so that we do not prolong, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this proposal in the expectation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, within its capabilities, remove all the shortcomings which are evident and which the Government has identified on its own on its own committees as deficiencies, remove them and be useful and effective in using something that is available to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66934	Thank you very much. We have one application for a rectification of the alleged, distinguished colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, colleague Koračević says units of local self-government and which have funds do not enter projects or prepare projects for the European Union. That's not true, pal. I can testify to you from my small unit of local self-government, the town of Pacrac... We are not exceptional, they do it all over Croatia, they prepare project documentation, and there are a lot of projects that have been prepared in your county. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Get down a little bit, and you'll see what's going on in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66936	Thank you. We don't have any more club applications. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Nevenka Marinović first applied. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66937	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we have already heard that three basic reasons are somehow for amending this agreement, which are the fact that on 27 March 2009 an agreement on funding came into effect between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the Multi-annual Operational Programme "Employment of Human Resources" from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance. Meanwhile, the Lisbon Agreement entered into force in December 2009, there was a commission and adopted the multiannual indicative planning document for 2009 and 2011. And what is more important, and I want to point out here, which is that the agreement, this agreement should have a feedback effect in order to preserve the initial date of acceptance of the expenditure of the agreement signed in Brussels in December 2008 and also in Zagreb in December, which entered into force on 29 March 2009. I will remind myself that the IPA instrument means pre-accession aid for the period from 2007-2013, replaces current programmes and is set up by Council of Europe Regulation No 1085 of 2006, and its financial value for the seven-year period and for all beneficiary countries is slightly over €11.5 billion. The main objectives of the IPA programme are to assist candidate countries and countries potential candidates in harmonising national legislation and implementing the acquis of the European Union and preparing for the use of structural and cohesion funds. I will also remind myself that the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of all components of the IPA programme from 2007 to the moment of membership of the European Union and that is why an amount of 589.9m euros is secured, of which the "Employment of human potential" component accounts for 8% of that amount. And this component supports measures aimed at promoting employment, education and improvement and social inclusion. I will also remind you that in late 2009, preparatory measures have been adopted for Croatia's participation in the Lifelong Learning Programme, the IPA Youth Programme, the transition assistance component and the strengthening of institutions for 2009 with a final proposal, and in order to implement this programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission have concluded a financing agreement that constitutes the basis for the grant of funds under this programme, and this agreement has also been confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. The operational programme for the development of human potentials following, of course, national and strategic documents of the European Union and related analyses aims to prepare the Croatian institutions for access to the European Union as well as to contribute to the achievement of the following priorities, which is to improve the access to employment and sustainable labour market integration which directly affects the reduction of unemployment and contributes to economic recovery, and to strengthen social inclusion and integration of those who have difficulty access to work, improve human capital and employability, and all of this provides technical assistance to strengthen the administrative capacity to implement all of this. This programme will certainly be used for the withdrawal of other European Union funds which will be available to the Republic of Croatia after entry and at significantly higher amounts than are provided by this programme. I will stress once again even though it is already said that this programme will take place according to a decentralised model, which means that the Croatian state authorities manage the European Union's funds, of course with the European Union's verification, and since December 2008, when the delegation has decided to transfer powers to manage the operational programme "The development of human potential". Confirmation of the agreement is a legal basis for the use of grants provided by the European Union, and we have heard that it amounts to 518 million kuna, but also provides financial contribution from the Republic of Croatia for the period 2010 to 2014 which is provided by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. In order to make successful use of these funds, it is necessary to seriously complete preparations primarily relating to the professionalisation and training of people involved in contracts, competitions, supervision of funds of the fund but to speed up preparations for projects to be ready by the beginning of 2012. I therefore call on this time to make the best use of the other IPA components especially component 1 means to assist in the transition and construction of IPA institutions that make up 18% of the total IPA assets. Here is another thing I would like to point out here the success of using European Union funds today, and tomorrow and structural and cohesion funds will depend greatly on the capacities and capabilities of the body of regional and local self-government. I therefore propose that the permanent operational involvement of the counties, cities and municipalities in the processes and planning and decision-making. Unless they're invited, I urge them to insist on including themselves in these projects. Moreover, given the number of institutions at national level implemented by the European Union programmes and programming for the use of funds for the future period, I think there is room to improve cross-sectoral cooperation or to work on creating inter-sectoral coordination mechanisms in which representatives of the counties, cities and municipalities, civil society, economy, scientific institutions are to be involved, as not only those institutions are to be included here but competent persons who can work on these programmes. I also propose to simplify application processes sometimes by not thinking needlessly of the specific conditions that former consultants impose and that the consequences have not been well studied and thus could make it easier for the economic sector to access European funds more easily. Here, I will conclude, the state administration needs to be organised even better for the more efficient use of funds, more co-operation with local and regional self-government units, exploiting and adapting all existing projects that have not passed in the previous competitions but, more importantly, prepare to manage projects, one new functioning because by entering the European Union, and we are close to having even more funds available to us but more funds available. Croatia will also participate on a daily basis in the creation of a common European policy and we must indeed be prepared for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66938	Thank you very much. My colleague Mance came forward to say the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66939	Honorable Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potentials, for the assistance of communities from pre-accession aid instruments or IPA as part of the "Development of human potentials in Croatia" component with the Final Proposal of the Law, I certainly support and should certainly support it. A few preliminary information as something to simplify and understand these activities related to the use of pre-accession funds as well as to the amendment of this Agreement. Of course, the Republic of Croatia has started its relations and political and other relations with the European Union with the known Stabilisation and Association Agreement since 2001, which came into force in 2005. Accession negotiations started in October 2005, and in the accession partnership, most of the priorities relate to the construction of institutions and the adoption of legal gains, as has been said so far, and how to prepare for the use of these funds, financial assistance largely grants activities under the pre-accession funds aimed at supporting the building of capacity through the learning model by working. Regarding human potential, the accession partnership has also identified priorities. Support for capacity building, social partners, development... of comprehensive employment strategies, in particular, should be highlighted by this employment problem because the criteria are the European Union and we know that we have come out of another community that has had some kind of different development and beyond which there are different consequences. Then the development and implementation of the national social inclusion strategy, and the increased efforts to create a modern system of vocational education and training, which is particularly highlighted by this agreement, because of the fact that there are significant differences in the so-called. the needs or should I say in the enrolment policy in secondary vocational education, as well as the real needs that the labour market requires. So, this framework agreement has been concluded as it is in some way, I may repeat some things between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community on the rights of co-operation in relation to the European Community's financial assistance in the Republic of Croatia in implementing and assisting the framework of pre-accession assistance instruments. The original agreement was signed in 2008 and approved by the Parliament on 20 February 2009. It is related to the period 2007-2009. So this agreement should certainly continue, we will have significant benefits from it, and when we look at the very financial results resulting from it. It should then be noted, therefore, that the agreement is in euro at 82m325m euros. Therefore, the funds are significant, and in the follow-up to the use of the funds, so when this agreement is signed and voted here in the 2010 Assembly, it is 18 million 470 million euros and 2011. 18,823 million euros. These funds will be used in any case for better access to employment. When I talk about employment, of course we're aware that our workforce is getting older. So we have a lot of relatively unemployed people who have long been unemployed. Then, it should also be said that we have a lot of high school-educated staff but we do not have enough high-level educational staff, and therefore it is very important to use these funds, therefore, in that sense. Then, the second strengthening of social inclusion and education, integration of persons who have difficulty accessing the labour market, and strengthening education. We also think about people with developmental difficulties. Therefore, the objective of the operational programme for human potential development is to increase the number of new and quality jobs, increase investment in human capital. So in this first part, we think about information for the creation of the information structure as well as for education itself. Then, through this programme, training and additional education should also be made possible for the teaching chamber itself. So, that you could even implement those programs. The operational programme for the development of human potential therefore aims also to prepare Croatian institutions for accession to the European Union and bring about the next priorities. So to improve access to employment, strengthen social inclusion of persons with a difficult approach, improve human capital and employability. And fourthly, provide technical assistance to strengthen the administrative capacity to implement the operational programme. This programme will have a positive impact in terms of preparation for those programmes that the Republic of Croatia will be able to use after we enter the European Union. So, and we're pretty close right now. The Croatian state authorities will manage the European Union's resources, and we must stress that this agreement is also very important for us to sign because these funds are not off-limits. So they can't be used, so that's why we can justify the urgency of the adoption, so this bill and its signing. A certain amount of funding has been provided in the state budget. Therefore, it differs because 85% of these funds are provided at European Union level. So, it's already pointed out. Around 609,453 million kuna and therefore 518 of the European Union are foreseen for national co-financing with 91 million kuna. Otherwise, after the end of the war, the Republic of Croatia has ambitiously committed itself to modernising its policy, reform policy. Of course, there's been a lot of pressure on the state administration because the labour market we inherited, so it's looking for another kind of personnel, it's looking for additional education, it's looking for people who are more informationally written and normally new jobs, and it needs new staff. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given significant support to these issues and employment through this pressure through the Croatian Employment Service. We had to do this at the level of local communities, giving also a number of support from young people, from women. So, from those who hire themselves, from the disabled. Therefore, this inclusion in some way and the use of these funds and the good part and exploited. At these levels, therefore, regional and local ones should also be freed from a number of obligations, given incentives, reduced municipal compensation, reduced municipal contribution, and the areas which are of particular national concern or mountain-mounted or less developed. So this means, in any case, and human potentials, but also what we're going to hear below about the next point, so in any case, we need to enable evener regional development. Because through employment we have a very large difference from those regions or counties that have a high employment rate to those that have a high unemployment rate. So it's this even development that through these programmes, it's also being referred to by these means, so it's going to be used for that. As far as education is concerned, I must say that we were witnesses in the Parliament that we had brought and voted on certain adult education agencies with the fact that we must stress that our vocational education was therefore encouraged by these European Union programmes as well as gained importance which was certainly not before. Then the education of adults who are far more present in the European Union, far greater than we are. So the adjustment of the labour market also went through these programmes, and hopefully it will continue through this period in 2010 and 2011. Then social inclusion is also present here. Therefore, there are many reasons to bring this forward by an urgent procedure and that this programme and the agreement on continuing financing should be implemented as soon as possible and therefore I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66940	Thank you, fellow Mance. And it is up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission as regards the development of human potentials, so as not to read the full name of the agreement. The Human Potential Development Strategy sets strategic goals and main directions for action in the field of human potential so that they can fully have a well-educated professional flexible workforce for individual and economic development by 2012. In addition, investment in human potential will fully enable the sustainability of the long-term productivity increase to a highly qualified workforce with a high level of education and the ability to adapt to new technologies and the applicable market needs necessary for a concrete and dynamic economy. Croatian counties and regional projects and partner committees have developed operational programmes and strategic objectives. Here are some. Strengthening the economy in a way that leads to a significant and long-term reduction in unemployment, building the infrastructure needed for the development and expansion of business entities and strong environmental management. Improving the development of the education system in a way that suits the economy. The development of social infrastructure with a view to improving the situation of vulnerable groups. A strategy to develop human potential priorities for achieving defined objectives, here are some of them: improving the quality of the education system, continuing vocational training as support for development and employment, linking lifelong learning with the labour market, increasing the adaptability of the workforce of businesses, promoting action and employment activities, modernising the HZZ area services, providing integrated public private services, developing the social economy, etc. improving the social inclusion of people in an unfavourable situation. It should highlight very important projects for the development of human potential from the CARDS programme in 2004 and the World Bank, as well as the IPA programme. For example. work opportunities source of knowledge, new skills for new employment, from women's labour market programmes will be competitive, from the regional network of local education systems, the development of lifelong learning in tourism and agriculture, education to independent entrepreneurship, learning today, working tomorrow, etc., etc. The Ship-Posavia County from which I come is certainly among the leading of the number of selected, implemented and prepared projects. Here are some data from the CARDS and the World Bank realized 58 projects worth 152 million kuna. IPA project 11 projects 32 million kuna, and the most important project I want to highlight here in Slavonski Brod, is a water supply, water and water protection project worth 30 million euros, of which 22 million grants. For all the sake of this, I support this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66942	Thank you very much, colleague Djurdjevic. We've exhausted all individual applications for discussion. Final secretary of state. Here you go. Excuse me, secretary, we had a replica, colleague Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, this was nice to hear from my colleague Djurdjevic, and here comes colleague Koračević, who will probably see what he is and hear what his colleague Djurdjevic said about what projects are being implemented, only in the area of the county where he comes from. Here is one contribution concrete from the Požega-Slavon County area, precisely related to this fourth component of IPA human potential, where the implementation of four sub-components of this project, i.e. four components worth 600 000 euros, where holders participate with 15% in this project, where it is currently implemented, means the first round of full for long-term unemployed, the second component of young people on the labour market, the third component of networking of school institutions, the fourth component of women on the labour market, holders and contractors of these projects are the County of Požega-Slavon, the business center of Pakrac, the town of Pakrac and the secondary school of Pakrac. Here's the way those who have prepared projects work, run for office, get funds and run them on the ground. And the good thing is exactly what you said that local self-government units don't have their resources to co-finance a certain percentage, just because in their share of this 15% it's possible to display between other costs and salaries of people working on the implementation of these projects, and so we don't have any additional financial investments, but through the salaries of employees in these institutions we co-finance 15% of the costs, plus these 600 thousand euros that we get from the IPA programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66944	Thank you very much. Replication response, co-worker Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66945	Thank you colleagues for this replica, that I can add some more things that I haven't said in my presentation, because my colleagues before me have spoken extensively about this subject, so I've done some things in my address here and skipped out. We in Brod-Posavina County, where I come from, have realized that we cannot rely on the county budget, on the budgets of two of our cities and 26 of our poor municipalities, but have established an administrative department for the development of European integration, which have just been working on these projects that are now bringing funds. And not only, when it comes to human potential,... other programs. [[You don't understand.]] So we weren't just looking at the budgets of local and regional self-government units, and the state budget, but with quality projects we applied to funds where there are funds. And if we did it right, the funds came. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66946	Thank you. And now the secretary of state. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66947	Thank you very much. Just a few words straight. First of all, thank you for supporting this law, it is of great interest to approve this agreement and continue to implement this operational programme which, as Mr. Koracevic said, has already absorbed quite the funds from their location. The second thing, thanks for the criticism, for the remarks because it is of course respected, is that we are colleagues from these operational structures who will respect some of the ideas, perhaps also translate really into one measure for this operational IPA programme which is a little smaller, probably because, it is difficult to modify it more when we accept it, but for the future programme from the European Social Fund, or from the Structural Funds, equally from the structural funds for the future operational programme that is currently being done, and that is the only thing that is important here to discuss and to appreciate and exchange ideas about it. And finally there are a few questions that I think we're going to have to answer just as well, and at the end of the next point that's going to answer, I think that's best then. As far as the issue was concerned, which was typical of this operational programme is a measure which could help restructure, which could help employees or the unemployed after restructuring of individual industries in this modification, we envisaged one such measure, which is not large resources, because we cannot implement large funds in this operational programme, but for this operational programme, so we have one measure in the modification that applies to training and training of the unemployed after the restructuring of certain enterprises, not those industries, therefore intended for all, so it can be a shipbuilding if such a project is reported, i.e. first of all, the Croatian Employment Office will help. And in the next Structural Funds operational programme, it's certainly one of the main measures that we're going to have included in that, that's how we use the funds. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66948	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote as usual when conditions are created and we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66949	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Finance Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Multiannual Operational Programme "Development of Human Potentials for Community Assistance from the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Development of Human Potentials in Croatia". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? That bill unanimously with 96 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66950	And we move to the fifth item of the agenda - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 694. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we agreed on the urgency of the procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure and amendments can be given until the end of the debate. The debate on this law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the board's meeting were received on the benches. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds, the esteemed Mr Hrvoje Dolenec. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66951	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. As in the present case, therefore, we have again one Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the current financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, and this case for the multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" as part of the "Regional Development" component of the third component of the IPA. So, in 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concluded an agreement, a financial agreement for the 2007-2009 budget period for this multiannual operational programme, and we have now signed in the process the amendments to this financial agreement, the modifications that bring about another 2 years of additional allocations. In the first case we had an allocation for 2007 to 2009, we are now adding another 2 years of allocation and increasing the funds for investing in this operational programme by an additional EUR 35.3 million under the IPA programme or 211 million kuna. I'm sorry, 261 million kunas. To this we add to the already provided funds in the first financial agreement of 28.6m euros or 211m kuna. What is important, therefore, is that this programme becomes the size of 5 years from 2007 to 2011, amounting to €556,4 million or €75.2 million, of which €63.9 million or €472 million is provided from free IPA funds, and €11.2 million or €83.4 million in the state budget in the items of the bodies to implement this operational programme. First of all, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports which I have already said are implementing this operational programme. And this agreement is another step in this good cooperation with the European Commission in the part of the use of IPA funds, i.e. pre-accession European funds in the Republic of Croatia. And the objective of this operational programme is to achieve greater competitiveness and balanced regional development through supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, supporting the development of science and technology and improving economic conditions in individual Croatian regions which are lagging behind, which are defined by certain criteria for this operational programme. At the same time, we are building institutions that will implement this operational programme and implement the future operational programme for structural funds of the same name and there are some extended measures given the wider resources we will have in this operational programme. Here, so much for the introduction. We're waiting for a hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66952	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs from the board's meeting want to? No, I don't. Then we move on to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Nevenka Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66953	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with associates. Here is a proposal for a Law to confirm an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" to assist the community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "regional development" component in Croatia with the final draft law which will support the HDZ club. Here, I will remind you that the abovementioned financing agreement is the meaning between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the multiannual operational programme Regional Competitiveness for Community assistance from pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Regional Development" component in the Republic of Croatia signed in Brussels and Zagreb in October, and the Croatian Parliament confirmed it at the end of 2008. The agreement is the basis for the use of grants under the Regional Competitiveness Operational Programme for the 2007-2009 financial period. In January 2010. The Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal to the European Commission extending the operational programme to 2 additional years, i.e. 2010 and 2011, and in June 2010. The European Commission has decided no. In October 2010, 3774 she approved such a proposal and submitted a proposal for an agreement. Here, I'll give you a few reasons why we need to change this agreement. So we are changing it because the financing agreement for the Multi-annual Operational Programme Regional Competitiveness was signed in 2007-2009 as I said in November 2008, and came into force in December 2008, and the Lisbon Agreement came into force on 1 December 2009. In addition, Commission Regulation No. 718/2007. on the application of Council Regulation No 1085 of 2006 on the introduction of an instrument establishing an Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for IPA, which has been amended and supplemented by the EU Regulation No. 80 from 2010 and that the Commission adopted a multiannual indicative plan document for the Republic of Croatia in July 2009. And yet another, no less important, reason for this agreement to have a feedback effect in order to preserve the initial date of acceptance of the expenditure set out in the previous agreement. So, that 2008 agreement. For those reasons, this Agreement replaces the previous and constitutes the basis for the use of grants for the entire IPA budget period, meaning in the regional competitiveness sector for the period 2007 to 2011. The Framework Agreement constitutes a technical legal administrative framework in which measures financed from the operational programme regional competitiveness are implemented, and this Agreement is a document of standard content and format on the basis of which the project resources are received and contain provisions based on which the Republic of Croatia accepts assistance from the European Union, but contains all rules and procedures and conditions relating to the payment of funds, the management of those funds, including the means and responsibilities for implementation and many other additions and obligations. The implementation of this Act requires the provision of funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2010 and 2014 and ensures that this Agreement is in place and is a financial contribution of EUR 83.4 million or EUR 11.3 million. The funds are provided by three ministries in their budgets, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. On the basis of this agreement, the European Commission provides IPA with a grant of €473 million or €63.9 million, so the overall value of the operational programme, regional competitiveness in 2007, 2011 is €556.4 million or €75.3 million. I will remind myself of the priorities of the operational programme, and that therefore means that we know why, why these funds will be used, it must be used in line with the priorities of the operational programme, which is to improve the development potential of less developed areas through strengthening the business infrastructure, then to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy through measures to improve the business climate and transfer technologies, as well as support for knowledge-based services for emerging companies and will be used to manage the operational programme in order to build capacity. These are therefore areas for which the funds of this Programme can be used. Here, I hold here a significant emphasis on the complementarity of the programme, which has been implemented for many years by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the units of local and regional self-government through significant funding for regional development, so I will just remind myself that it is the APE programme implemented by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the UNDP programme with the operational programme. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia through these programmes covers investments that reduce differences in regional development and are not directly linked to economic development and as such do not meet the IPA component 3 requirements, so it could not be financed from this programme. Here I am using this opportunity to announce projects that are under way but to announce new projects. The good news is that the European Commission has approved the Republic of Croatia and the amendments and additions to the IPARD programme, soon it is the 4th tender for the 101st investment in agricultural economies to meet the standards in force in the European Union and measures 103rd investments in the processing and marketing of agricultural and fish products. I will note that the government has adopted all the rules for implementing these measures that have been published recently, the competitions that are under way I will mention. Since the Union programmes represent an integrated set of activities that the European Union has in order to promote cooperation between Member States in different areas and are intended for Member States, however, some of them are intended for the Republic of Croatia as a candidate. So I will say exactly that three new competitions are under way from the Union programme, which as applicants and partners may be entities from the Republic of Croatia. The first such project is water waste management with the aim of supporting the development of energy treatment of waste water in the future, so by 2020 these are innovative solutions. The deadline of application is 21 February 2011 for small and large enterprises but also for universities and institutes means scientific organisations. The second is support for projects of literary translation that may be taking place today, tomorrow and the third is Europe's energy programme and this is promotion projects and... that help achieve the key objectives of the European Union in the field of energy and climate change. The programme can be applied to private public legal entities, the deadline for registration is 12 May 2011 amounts per project are significant and the grants are available up to 75% of the project value. In the HDZ Club, we believe that the aid provided to those with whom the government has been investing for many years will increase competitiveness and also balance regional development by providing support to small and medium-sized enterprises and improving economic conditions in the Croatian regions with lower GDP, which was the objective of the Regional Competitiveness Operational Programme. And no less significant will further develop the ability through this programme of the Croatian institutions to prepare and implement projects that will be supported after accession, which will be supported by the European Regional Development Fund, which really has a good fiscal capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66954	Thank you, colleague. HNS HSU club and re-esteemed colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66955	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and distinguished Secretary of State. And this Bill of Law Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners will support it with a very simple explanation, enables us to pay off EU funds and logic says it should be supported. The objective of this Operational Programme of Regional Competitiveness is to achieve greater competitiveness in balanced regional development, by providing support to small and medium-sized enterprises and by improving economic conditions in the Croatian regions lagging behind in development. In relation to institution building, the purpose of the operational programme is to develop the ability of Croatian institutions to prepare and implement projects that will be supported by the European Regional Development Fund after accession. This is, for example, two sentences that all ministries, representatives of ministries directly involved in regional development, should read immediately in the morning as soon as they come to work. And if they'd read that in the morning as soon as they got to work, then the use of these funds from pre-accession funds would have been much stronger, certainly. By talking about this component, it's also relative to the scales, relatively well used, relatively. We are coughing against the agreed amounts according to the criteria agreed with the EU we are here in one downfall, but since the announcement of the notice from the tender is in line with the deadline of another purchase plan almost 100% with a little delay, it is expected that this part will be resolved unlike the Operational Programme Transport, where it will certainly happen to suspect the summarum that we will not be able to use all possible resources as well as in environmental protection, and the colleague mentioned IPARD a little while ago, in IPARD almost certainly according to rule 1+3 will fail safely between 17 million of some mathematics, perhaps 15, maybe 14 but more than 10 million is almost certain, we will lose, we will not get. And everything we didn't get, we lost. Therefore, there is also a danger in this operational programme because in 2010, we managed to get out, but there is a danger in 2011, given rule 1+3 and there is one significant challenge to whether the funds from the grant scheme, which contracts are very significant, have a significant impact on the absorption of the entire location of the operational programme, there is one real danger of entering an unusable area of funds. However, at the beginning of the year, I hope that institutions that have taken responsibility in using these funds to succeed in 2011 will do all the activities that are necessary and that the funds we received for 2007 will be fully used. I'm talking about this operational program by estimating the abilities we heard from our colleagues just before from their municipalities, cities and counties. I speak for all the municipalities and cities in this country. And while we are dearly respected colleagues from Brod-Posavina County, the Varazdin County is known for using funds, not so much from these programmes and projects, because it did not get the possibility to use them, but from those projects and programmes especially border cooperation from others where the projects are selected in Brussels we are very successful because there we had opportunities. Furthermore, when I talk about this operational programme, regional competitiveness itself has three priorities, priority axes, competitiveness, regional development and technical assistance. However, despite the fact that this operational programme refers to regional competitiveness, it is also a fact that at the previous point in an individual debate, Marinović said very nicely and this is true and I thank my colleagues, which is that regions do not have a significant impact on the determination of priorities and key areas of action, that they are insufficiently involved and that they should be more strongly involved in setting priorities. Namely, this operational programme during the time when structural and cohesion funds will be financed is exposed to a very serious risk of failure. In particular, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy plays a special role in this operational programme, which is to ensure that all operational programmes provide sufficient attention and pay sufficient attention to the allocation of funds from structural funds and cohesion funds towards regions. The contribution of the region from a regional policy perspective is crucial and there is an important role of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, as it must provide funding for regional projects in order to obtain a genuine Operational Programme for Regional Development in the programming time from 2014 to 2020, because it is necessary for us. Operational programme exclusively for regional development. Unfortunately, the total value added to which the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy has so far been installed in operational programmes is almost flat zero and the fact that the Ministry has shown its interest exclusively for these simple grants under the Operational Programme of Regional Competitiveness and for all other operational programmes no successful system has been established to ensure the financing of projects from individual regions. Based on the low use of funds from pre-accession funds so far, and given the opportunities in structural and cohesion funds, it is important to emphasise, it is important to potentiate, and I would like to make this especially possible for the need for communication and consultation with regional levels. The partner councils have been formed, have the party councils met at the level of statistical regions, how many times have they met and defined their development priorities? In terms of the Lisbon Strategy, the concept of partnership is seen as a powerful means of decision-making and governance. However, the fact that we have not yet managed to establish real partnerships, especially those in which regional and local levels would participate. Contrary to the European way of thinking with all the data related to the preparation of programmes and projects by the state authorities, it is treated as a state secret and as regards the counties, cities and municipalities. And one of the consequences is that the regions will ultimately benefit very little from the financial opportunities offered by the Structural Funds because they are not given the right opportunity to... in their own ideas and projects. Furthermore, what opportunities will users through... and loans be able to do? We're talking regional competitiveness. Is that familiar? Do our entrepreneurs know if they have that information? Therefore, at the club of the Croatian People's Party, we stress the need for a clearer and more precise definition of opportunities that entrepreneurs will be able to use through... where it is definitely something that is in charge of the Ministry of Economy with the Ministry of Economy being tasked with carrying out an analysis of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, it was given the task, however, I did not notice that it had been carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners did not notice it. Maybe you are, so we'd like to see that information. Furthermore, one of the conclusions on the committee that follows the preparation of projects that we will be running for structural and cohesion funds was that the ministries on the Internet publish projects that are preparing for structural and cohesion funds. Whether it has been upgraded in the ministry, whether the ministries have published those projects or whether it is still a state secret for a particular ministry. Finally, there remains a problem in providing funding for project documentation to prepare projects for local and regional levels, there is still a problem. And colleague Huška, it is also one of the conclusions of the National Commission that monitors the preparation of projects to finance structural and cohesion funds. It's not mine. It's the National Commission. So that's the problem. I know that certain political options have a green light when it comes to funding from the central budget, and there is also a whole series of municipalities and cities that have red light. I don't think I have any need to explain this specifically, and it's clear to you. It's clear to you, too. We have introduced a category called the Development Index through the Regional Development Strategy and the Regional Development Act, and this development index should have served something. In addition to the finding that is the index of development in a particular county, for a particular municipality, for a particular city, did something happen, did anything happen, nothing. The Regional Development Act, unfortunately not as an obligation but as a possibility for the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance to develop a system of fiscal alignment. Nothing happened. We've solved the fiscal alignment, it's gone. At a time when municipalities and cities generally fell in revenue, we know why, we saved the state budget, we dropped revenues for unemployment and a whole series of reasons, but it is ever important to introduce a fiscal alignment that ultimately nothing happens on the state budget just because of redistribution we have provided municipalities and cities with the possibility of funding projects for structural and cohesion funds, and in particular rural development projects where we still have no strategy as a state which is a particular problem and which is a special torment and special tragedy our common. Finally, the Croatian People's Party club will support this draft law in hopes, I repeat, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all relevant ministries, which are specifically linked to raising regional competitiveness, which are related to equating regional inequalities, will give concrete support to our units of local and regional self-government with a letter of intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66956	Thank you. We have a report for two irrevocables. First of all, distinguished colleague Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66957	Thank you. Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Korajevic, who said that I said that the units of local and regional self-government have no influence. That's not true. I said, I made a call to the county, to the cities and municipalities to be more active, not to wait for anyone's call but to engage in all these activities in time. And listen, today at this time information about what is really possible is available to everyone. And I also said that the criteria, to be activated because the use of funds today from European funds, and tomorrow from structural and cohesion ones are largely dependent on the capacity of the body of regional and local self-government, so that they are truly in the interest of being trained. And I suggested a constant operational involvement of the county, cities and municipalities in the processes and planning and decision-making. I didn't say they weren't involved, but here's a space for their extra activity to improve all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66958	Thank you. And the correction of the quote, Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, Koračević, that Varazdin County has no conditions for running in these programmes, which means it cannot and must not run in these programmes. I don't agree with my colleague, and that's not true. Look at the conditions, for sure that both cities and municipalities and also the County of Varazdinska itself will find space and opportunities to run in these programs. And generally looking at and evaluating your thinking, and my knowledge so far, there are those cities, municipalities, units of local self-government who know, who will and who are able to run, write programs, and there are those who are not interested, who haven't studied all this time, who don't know how to write programs and today they cry because they can't get money from pre-accession, and tomorrow they're from the structural funds of the European Union. That's the only difference. It's not forbidden to anyone, there's a possibility for everyone, and maybe we in the war of the injured areas are in a different situation than you who, fortunately, have not been destroyed in such a way, devastated, affected by the war because we've been writing programs since '95. the year, from the military-related action Flash, from the European Commission and US Aid, different embassies. We have learned how to write programs, and we are now successfully getting funds from pre-accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66960	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, the Secretary of State is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must look back on one statement from the esteemed Mr. Korakevic. So Croatia has not yet lost any funds and will not lose because this would mean that we have surrendered 2.2 today and that we are doing absolutely nothing. This is unfair to people working on project preparation, project implementation, and there is nothing for now but the usual risk of the competition not being carried out on time. And like any component, we don't have the knowledge so far that we're going to lose that money. I think that prejudging a statement is really unnecessary and unfair to all of us who work in this system. And another statement, I don't know if I got it right, maybe I didn't get it right, and I hope I didn't get it right. But I don't think there's any political determination of projects. Projects that are ready and prepared get their chance and will get their chance. And it's also an unfair statement to people who work in the system because they don't work that way. So please don't make such statements especially in this sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66962	Correction of the incorrect quote by colleague Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66963	So I want to go through this institute to correct the incorrect allegation of telling the Honorable Secretary of State that when I mentioned in any case I had no intention and my criticism wasn't directed at the people who run this system, because they're taking it phenomenally well, unlike all the other bodies of the state administration that don't do their job. And that there's a real danger in the IPARD that's known to everyone and that's clear to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66964	So why wouldn't you be that kind of correction? Thank you, fellow Koračević. I think Mr. Dolenec is pleased with this correction. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, an esteemed colleague named Zeljko Turk signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Secretary of State with his associates. Here is a draft law confirming the agreement, which is complementary, i.e. an amendment to the framework agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia, or by its Government, with the Commission of the European Community on 27 August 2007 which spoke about the rules for cooperation and in connection with the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the IPA. This original agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission as part of the regional development component was definitely signed in Brussels in 2008, and in January 2010, our Republic submitted a proposal to the European Commission extending the multi-annual operational programme to two additional financial years for 2011 and 2012 as part of the European Commission's decision and approved such a proposal. This Agreement replaces the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme of regional competitiveness to assist the Community from the instrument and pre-accession assistance and, as part of the component of regional development in Croatia, constitutes the basis for the use of grants under the Regional Competitiveness Framework Programme. Certainly, as long as the technical, legal and administrative framework implementing the funding measures under the Framework Programme is determined by the Framework Agreement. The Agreement lays down further conditions for the delivery of assistance to the European Commission. It has already been said that the objective of this operational programme is to achieve greater competitiveness and to balance regional development by providing support to small and medium-sized enterprises and improving economic conditions in the Croatian regions which are lagging behind in development. And certainly I dare say a good part of today's debate and it was quality and it wasn't mostly political. And a good part of the people who discussed this topic today has certain or more or less quality experiences in the implementation of this topic within the scope of space, municipalities and cities of regional or local self-government in which they lived. And when we translate these dry words from the text of the law itself into life then each such implementation depends actually on two components. It is one thing that the competent institutions of the ministry, the government, the institutions put the project down to a lower level and on the other hand how many interested institutions, businesses, bodies of the units of local and regional self-government are prepared to understand such a programme and then accept it first of all, then what might be most important is whether there are in the context of the people running the municipalities, the cities of people who can quality and apply it, and before they actually exist in the municipalities and cities of certain development conditions, whether there are assumptions through the planning, spatial and in the documentation that certain programmes can be applied at all. Because from a good idea and thinking that we'd like to apply something, to a situation where we can actually apply something from the difference between desire and possibility. And very often, units, municipalities and cities do not have quality people and personnel who can deal with this project or can deal with it. But on the other hand, as my colleague Fukkor said, or Mrs Marinović did a good part of the spatial units in time and quality, and independently of party membership on either the left or right side of this assembly, he took up the job, and he taught his work and perseverance because those who first came to them had to learn a lot to understand them at all, then what was normal and logical and persistent, so I dare say and boring higher instances in order to get legalized. In fact, only the synergy between the ministry's competent authorities and administrations and field work can achieve results as well as Mr. Koračević said when it comes to the body that today represents a proposal for this amendment to the agreement. There are also very often large cities, therefore large counties that have not adequately responded to these measures and tasks. But when it comes to this topic, it does not only apply to today's active pre-accession funds or to applications for the structural cohesion funds that will come, its application at the moment of Croatia's entry into the European Union, but we must, we want to recognise clearly and ourselves in various other forms of quality programmes within the framework of funds at the level of government and ministry. So, funds related to renewable energy sources in Croatia with energy efficiency, with protection of the environment where there are large resources that can be used better, better quality or lower quality than renewable energy sources, solar energy, public lighting, which depends largely on the people on the ground, who, in their areas of water municipalities and cities, determine politics, and then also through certain programmes and measures, make their policy more or less successful in life. My experience here is already more than ten years of co-operation or the leadership of the city, and in co-operation with a large part of the municipalities around Zapresic, in Zagreb County, we have witnessed a number of activities and people's desire to learn and that through this learning there is therefore a possibility through new means that can then be used in quality for the development of space, so cities and municipalities in which to live, and in particular this applies, and in the context of the topic that we are talking about today, therefore the spaces that are needed primarily within certain regions of a better and better use of... to get up, and come to a certain balance in the development of all parts of our beautiful. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, this two-year extension also means that more than 75m euros can be used under the operational programme, which is, in any case, the maximum amount of grants, while the rest in relation to the other part, and the amount of 12, not full 12m euros will therefore be given... The ministries and bodies of the state administration, and therefore the amount of these 75 million euros, is certainly the amount which will, through its operationalisation and will contribute to the balanced development of all parts of our beautiful, and accordingly, I will support the proposal of this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement and Support. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66966	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, he is a respected colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Turk, you've said nicely that you should study, that you should always learn, and it's nice to hear from you, how much effort you're making to improve the quality of life in your midst. Of course there are always opportunities to improve it, that it is possible to run. We have a nice expression with us, here's a colleague used to say, it's always nice to criticize, tell us no one loves us, and no one will. Of course you need to learn and apply quality projects so that you can participate, we have a nice expression that says you need to buy a ticket to win the lottery. This is not a lottery, of course, but a quality program is being applied here. So I congratulate you on these efforts to improve the quality of life in your midst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66968	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66969	... We've all been learning a little bit our whole lives, and then eventually we come to a lot of knowledge that we don't know much, a lot of things. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] This replica of yours may have a little bit astounded me on something else. What kind of mayor of the city would I be today, or a parliamentary representative representing one region, so an area where one city and 7 municipalities, according to the concept of the ruling are both left and right, would, in what knowledge I have or which I have learned, or in those knowledge that can be passed on to others, share those communities to the left and right, because we know in politics is what is real, that what today is possible is another, people who live here, and remain places where something is being done, and the basis of that is precisely the basis for... all of our space. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66970	Thank you. And the replica, my colleague... Here you go. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke of experiences, i.e. knowledge or ignorance of replication for pre-accession funds. We who work in local self-government seem to have experience in the way that those regional self-governments, and hence the local self-government units that first entered the design of regional operational programs, that we are doing this better and easier to solve, and that they have more success in apps compared to those who have become much later involved in this whole story. And I definitely agree with my colleague Huška before, who said that the party's omen absolutely doesn't matter in this whole story. So as mayor of a small community, so far together with our associates, we have withdrawn more than 30 million kunas to this day, and I hope it will not be the final amount, and I am very interested in how much the city of Rijeka has withdrawn as an environment that knows a lot, which is the best in Croatia obviously by some, how much money they have received from pre-accession funds to date.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66972	Let's proceed to the Rules of Procedure, reply to the replica, fellow Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66973	Thanks, buddy. about the Word, and I really can't say it personally, probably the colleagues know it better. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] But in any case, we know that Rijeka has received good billions within the framework of the even development of Croatia, two, three, four, okay, we won't in the details, we don't need this moment, but here I want to withdraw another component, a comparison. How important is communication and cohesion of local and regional administrations, because very often in that part of communication can crack, so any good desire, regardless of whether it is local or regional character, and if it has to be united comes into question when it is also running and when it is therefore going further towards those who should... In addition to another finding, that is always at the source of information are those people who are closer to the base and who live with people on the ground, because they wanted me to admit it or not, when we talk about our counties, so they are derived from the area of municipalities and cities, and they have to get information from someone that then as such could in total... [[You don't understand.]] Connecting and regional programmes, because then we really have more power, when we build together... [[You don't understand.]] The projects are moving on. [[You don't understand.]] My experience says that some times, there really isn't a political commitment, it's an important understanding... , and a certain vision that some times is even those who move themselves into these programs are not, I will not say aware, but it may be questionable whether it will be possible to do so, because if there is a quality base, if there is a material basis, if there are projects, budgets,... [[You don't understand.]] plans, if there is therefore a part of the funds often and in smaller funds to municipalities and cities, then the possibility of success is greater. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66974	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Ante Kulusic's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66975	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. That financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for a multi-annual operational programme regional competitiveness with the assistance of the community and IPA as part of the component of regional development in the Republic of Croatia was signed in Brussels, as already stated in 2008. The Framework Agreement is a technical formal legal framework implementing measures financed by the Regional Competitiveness operational programme, and this agreement is a document of standard content and form on the basis of which funds for projects are received. The agreement itself contains provisions on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia accepts the assistance of the European Union, as well as all rules and procedures and conditions relating to the payment of funds, the management of those funds, including the arrangements and the competence to implement and many other additions and commitments. To implement this law, it is necessary to provide budget funding for the period 2010-2014 with our financial contribution of around €11.5 million, and will be provided in the budget paragraphs of 3 of the ministry. Thus, the overall value of the Regional Competitiveness operational programme is around 75m euros between 2007 and 2011. I don't think there's much to repeat here that's been said. In the end, I will only say a few sentences about the Sibenik-Knin County where the town of Drnis, where it is not in HDZ power, and the city of Knin, where it is in HDZ power, pulled about 23m euros from the IPA to drain. Therefore, all those who were high - quality, capable, and prepared projects pulled the money, and those who did not need to be invited to push these or those. I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66976	Final review, Secretary of State Hrvoje Dolenec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a few closing words after this. So I also thank you here for supporting this law because it is important for this law to pass, i.e. to use the funds and to support the implementation of this operational programme. I remained in debt for one piece of information that I would like to share and respond to Mr. Koračević for fulfilling the employment decisions. So I thought there would be a question raised here – yes, there is a decision to hire a government that is being fulfilled. Most people are employed, other tenders are ongoing and are not finished of course last year, but we also have a new decision that is being prepared for 2011 that will be even stronger because it includes preparation for structures and structural funds. Therefore, in the full amount of employment to meet the necessary conditions to obtain permits to operate these structures. That's one piece of information. And secondly, this operational programme is preceding a future story, which is that we have a regional operational programme one day, so in a new financial perspective. We are now following this operational programme here even in this new year and in the new operational programme for structural funds we are doing a little expansion of the ability to report to regions, or counties, or individual users from individual counties for certain jobs. First of all, I am thinking of a priority for business infrastructure, to expand it to the area and business and tourism infrastructure and to extend that scope to all counties that, in line with the development index that you mentioned, will have the opportunity to benefit more or less from State aid in co-financing. So I think that, here it is, there is another step more and a step forward in defining this operational program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66978	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the Regional Development Component in Croatia". Let's get involved and vote. The result? It was established by 98 votes for and 1 abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66981	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am pleased to briefly explain the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products. The law governing the agricultural products market was passed at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 2 December 2009, and entered into force on 23 December of the same year. The law implemented partial alignment with the measures to regulate the EU's agricultural products market and prescribed all market regulation measures other than direct payments for all agricultural products in line with the principle of simplification and transparency of EU policies. The basis of this law has been adopted so far by 17 sub-legislative regulations governing the recognition and support issues of... organisations, marketing standards for fruit and vegetables, intervention measures in the livestock sector, reporting of trade measures in the agricultural sector, the vineyard register and protected designations in the wine sector. It is important to note that the regulation of the agricultural product market is one of the criteria for closing the negotiations on Chapter 11 and our activities are closely monitored by the EU in this area. So last October, a second European Commission mission was held to assess progress on market regulation. The general assessment of that mission was favourable, and we also received some recommendations for further activities until EU entry, which is one of the reasons why the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products are proposed. We also want to ensure better quality of the implementation of certain measures with the proposed amendments in a way that is more precise to prescribe or define them in relation to the existing interpretation of the law. The most important issues covered by the attached Act amending and supplementing the Market Regulation are intervention measures. In particular, public interventions and support for private storage, approval of producers in the sugar sector, individual provisions relating to a system of production restrictions on support to certain sectors and sanctions in the event of non-compliance... law in particular with the producer organisations. Therefore, the adoption of this law will ensure a more detailed working-out through certain regulations of the relevant market regulation measures, and thus a more complete alignment with the relevant regulations governing the EU. This ensures full compliance with the obligations arising from the criteria for closing the negotiations on Chapter 11, according to which the Republic of Croatia must implement legislative and administrative harmonisation, as well as the practical implementation of measures to regulate the EU's agricultural product markets. At the very end, I declare that the Government accepts the amendments made to the Legislative Committee, with a total of 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66982	Thank you. Committees, legislation, Croatian integration, agriculture, fisheries and rural development. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66983	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS and HSU club will support this bill. As we have heard from the opening argument from the Secretary of State, it is a law that is fully in line with the obligations we have made, and to close Chapter 11 and something that we would like to highlight in particular, which is that the Government has made a commitment under the Agriculture Act to bring a very important document to 5 years, which is called the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development. Time's up, a year's gone. Time's up for the government, but it's been a year. The government didn't do it. The government has not adopted the National Plan for Agriculture and Rural Development and we do not know what our National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development is. We don't know that. Do any of you know that? I asked the secretary of state today on the Committee of Parent Affairs, maybe he's got a work version. We condemn at the HNS Club, literally condemn this procedure by the Government specifically on this example, and that one very important document, a document that does not solve but gives space, opens space, directs the area of agriculture as an economic sector, and especially that part called rural development. From the European Fund referred to in the second pillar of the common European agricultural policy, rural development has a specific area. The funds opened to us as a possibility for rural development are at 200m euros in 2012 and then increased 240, 60 in 2013 and 300 and something in 2014 for the next ten years. The national programme strategies following this strategy are based on a document so that we can use it at all, as well as a basic document so that units of local and regional administrations, which we have discussed in previous points in our space, can work on their development strategies. Therefore, we at the HNS and HSU club warn the Government of a commitment made by the Agriculture Act more than the time available to us, and to use opportunities called European funds so that we can use them. As regards this law that we are discussing our specific question, this is Article 11 which was my question today on the parent board and we believe that there is no reason, namely Article 11 which says that for certain products in the fruit and vegetable sector, living plants and flowers can be prescribed marketing standards as a condition for placing on the market. In the original version of the legislation that we passed in 2009, there was also a processing industry when I talk about fruit and vegetables, the explanation was that there was no such thing in EU legislation, and the latter was not put into this bill, which in other words means that there is no need for them to prescribe marketing standards. Furthermore, Article 18a introduces that traders who place flowers, fruit and vegetables on the market must be registered in the register of fruit and vegetables traders run by the ministry. Since Article 11 is the category introduced, it means that for certain sectors of fruit and vegetables, living plants and flowers can be prescribed market standards as a condition of market conditions. We at the HNS and HSU club don't see any reason why you shouldn't keep a register for manufacturers and merchants living with plants and flowers, why not? If there is a need for the fruit and vegetable sector, we see no reason why not for living plants and flowers. Article 15(10) which states "A paying agency for each user shall adopt acts on the exercise of rights on the basis of market regulation measures which are not administrative acts". If those aren't administrative acts, then what are they? Acts based on the rights of agencies, the place of decision, I mean what are they? If they are not administrative acts, how and in what way does the user have the possibility of appeal in the event of refusal by the Agency, if it is not an administrative act? Simply referred to in the proposed paragraph, there is simply a misunderstanding and I think it would be a good idea for the applicant to explain to us how and in what way the user, when he receives a refusal from the Payment Agency, has the possibility to appeal, if this sentence has been found that the paying agency is bringing in acts on the basis of measures of regulation of markets which are not legal acts. Finally, the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill in its belief that the government will fulfil its own obligation to adopt or propose a National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development, an extremely important document for the development of the entire agricultural sector, the agricultural economy, and in particular rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66984	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66985	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, so the rules governing one of the three basic areas of the common agricultural policy. It is necessary here to stress that the Republic of Croatia has established a harmonised legal framework for direct payments and for rural development measures representing the remaining two core areas of the common agricultural policy in the middle of last year or more precisely in July 2010 by adopting the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. It should also be pointed out that the Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products adopted by the Croatian Parliament in early December 2009 is also part of a total European package, i.e. one of the very important rules that bring national legislation into line with European legislation and certainly in the most demanding area, both from the national aspect and from the aspect of the European Union budget. However, despite the fact that the current Agricultural Market Regulation has achieved a very high level of compliance with the relevant European Union regulation, it has also laid down appropriate market regulation measures for all important agricultural products, which will be said a little later. It is necessary to say that its consistency is not complete and therefore requires further harmonisation, however, it is necessary to stress here that there is virtually no fundamental objection but rather about remarks and suggestions which I will also say, which are more technical. Therefore, the provisions proposed by the amendments to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products are heading towards full harmonisation of the national policy on the organisation of the agricultural products market with the acquis of the European Union, thus eliminating any fear of the possible existence of the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development, at least when it comes to the regulation of agricultural products markets. In this context, it will also tell you that the Council Regulation of the European Community concerning the regulation of the agricultural products market in the past year has been amended twice, on two occasions, and that the proposed amendments and additions other than the changes mentioned in the applicable law have been incorporated into all constructive guidelines and proposals of the European Commission, which are the result of monitoring the implementation, means business monitoring of the implementation of this law by the European Commission. And I just said that these proposals aren't essential, they're more technical to improve expressions, etc. The above-mentioned facts guarantee that by adopting the proposed amendments and additions which provide the original law with additional quality and transparency of spending of public funds, we will finally have a legal framework which, on the one hand, contributes to the successful completion of extremely demanding negotiations in the area of agriculture and rural development, and on the other hand, which is, in our opinion, an even more important step in the preparation of our agricultural sector in the conditions of business that await them in the time after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The law in question will also result in positive effects for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia due to its characteristics previously mentioned only in the meantime, therefore also for users of measures to regulate the market for agricultural products, i.e. our farmers, but also for taxpayers who will be able to make sure that the funds provided for in the budget for these purposes are actually used for the right purposes and end up in the right hands which I think is very important. Here we should not ignore the fact that this law has its positive effects on all Croatian citizens, so consumers and users of agricultural products. Respecting all of the above, but also because of the preparation and development of the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products as well as its improvement through the proposed amendments and additions, we consider the success of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also the overall state administrations, because they have managed to remove certain doubts and skeptics that we are capable, ready and governmental administration to make such a significant step forward towards the harmonisation of our legislation towards the European Union, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club will support the adoption of the proposed law. Since I have announced this earlier, I will only say a few sentences about the situation we had in the Republic of Croatia regarding measures to regulate the agricultural products market until the law is in force, but something about the law on the regulation of the market for agricultural products published in the "National Journal" No. 149 of 2009. Thus, by the end of 2009, different measures were applied in the Republic of Croatia to regulate the agricultural products market, with some of them activated only in cases of major market disturbances, while the basic legal framework for the implementation was the Agriculture Act. It is also necessary to know how the operational implementation of the measures on the regulation of the agricultural market was based on different horizontal or specific regulations and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which were of a limited nature, so in a way that has absolutely and significantly deviated from how it operates in the European Union, because it is known that since 2007, the regulation of the agricultural market in the European Union has been resolved by a single regulation. It is precisely respecting the previous facts that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed, at the end of 2009, the adoption of a single regulation, namely the current Law on the regulation of the market for agricultural products, which, by modelling the relevant regulations of the European Union, is structured as a roof law defining in one place all national market arrangements for certain sectors of agricultural products, conditions for the activation of individual measures, users of measures, the role and competence of certain bodies, institutions in their implementation and the control and control system. It should also be pointed out that the applicable law prescribes certain measures that have been applied so far in the Republic of Croatia, but that new market mechanisms have also been introduced which have not been... in the territory of the Republic of Croatia such as production restrictions, private storage support, producer and sectoral organisations, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As is the case in the European Union, the law covers all market regulation measures, of course other than those relating to direct payments, but only to those sectors that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and these sectors are listed in Article 3 of the applicable law. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products, which is the subject of today's debate, it can be said in the shortest possible time that it makes clear, more precise, certain concepts or prescribes market regulation measures in relation to the expression in force of the law. In this context, this proposal defines the concept of buying-in as buying-in and storage of products in the public intervention system so as to allow for a more precise development of this measure in the implementing regulation, in particular in the section relating to storage and approval conditions. Also in the section relating to public interventions, a certain method of determining the intervention price related to the reference price established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed and the procedure for the initiation, i.e. the termination of public intervention based on government decisions, which the Government makes on the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture. The same role is played by the government and the ministry when it comes to support private storage. Therefore, the procedure for the initiation or termination of support for private storage is based on the government's decision. In the case of the sugar sector, the detailed provisions relating to the approval of the manufacturer are more detailed, and the measures which may be taken in the event that the quantity of sugar produced exceeds the quantity established under the production limit. It should also be said that the role of the paying agency is much clearer than that of the implementation of the production restrictions system. It is important to mention the fact that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law further elaborate the inspection control provisions, administrative controls and controls on the ground of the implementation of measures of certain markets which are certainly in the function of greater transparency and more rational spending of taxpayers' funds. The Croatian Democratic Community's club holds that the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions will further contribute to the quality and transparency of the applicable law, and thus to the improvement of the agricultural product market in the Republic of Croatia. This is certainly the case with certain mechanisms that contribute to a more quality market surveillance method, which will also allow for easier predicting possible disturbances, which will certainly also allow timely activation of adequate market measures and a reduction of the overall market risk. Finally, we believe that this law, if we observe it as a whole, guarantees our farmers that in the event of serious market disturbances, they will not remain in place, nor left to themselves, but that they have a quality legal framework for solving their problems caused by such circumstances. Respecting therefore all that I have said earlier, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will fully support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66986	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products. The adoption of this law, which we are discussing today, removes the last remaining obstacles to the full takeover of the legal property of the European Union in the area of the organisation of the agricultural products market. We know that the Government is in this particular chapter conducting intensive negotiations with the European Union. They're in the final phase. We see that last week the National Committee approved and confirmed the negotiating position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and according to the announcement of the main negotiator, Mr Drobnjak can be expected to close this chapter in April. Of course, in this respect, the Croatian Peasant Party fully supports that any open issues be resolved as soon as possible. What makes us happy is the announcement of a financial envelope through which it is visible that it is secured through the first and second pillars of 735 million euros. This is also for, therefore, what we call direct support today and for rural development measures, and I must remind myself that it has just spoken through its programme of the rebirth of the Croatian village that it is necessary to provide for the development of agriculture in order to preserve rural space at the annual level of 6 billion kuna, which is also in line with what is negotiated in the financial envelope. So what HSS was saying now is that it was absolutely right. Because it's impossible to expect progress in the area of agriculture. It is impossible to expect that people will stay in the Croatian village if we do not provide them with adequate financial resources for both municipal and social infrastructure, as well as for support for their production, regulation of the market. And as we have said, it is the six billion a year, and we are glad that it confirmed it through the negotiations and the European Union. Of course, this law makes the government an important step in preparing our agricultural sector for the conditions of business that are common to any country that joins the European Union. But we find it important in the HSS to point out again and again that it is always important to strive for new shifts. First of all, we think we have two big challenges ahead of us. One of these challenges is to find a way to detimise the imports of agricultural products into the Republic of Croatia and those agricultural products that are sufficient on our market. Another major challenge is the legalisation of agricultural facilities. Because legal objects are a prerequisite for withdrawing money from that part of the financial envelope relating to rural development. Of course, we are aware that imports cannot be banned by our decree, but that there can be found adequate and better solutions that can certainly be done because we are witnessing that milk powder imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina are being imported, and that our dairy industry is being stimulated by generous financial resources to buy market surpluses. And on the third hand, that same dairy industry closes its dairy farms where it has lactose and is only willing and comes to those larger buyers, and the small ones leave at the mercy of the market. And I think that the Ministry of Agriculture needs to be focused on just the small producers and leave the dairy industry to the market, so we'll see when we replace the roles of the outsiders, which are both. It's the same thing when we talk about meat. Of course, there were various and accurate and incorrect allegations that we could read and listen to in the media. But it is also true that often imports into Croatia are imported and placed on the market what is not good for consumers in the European Union countries and is not acceptable. So I think that through our internal acts and laws, we can say what kind of meat we want to eat and what we don't want to eat. Well, for example, what's older than two weeks or a month we don't want to eat. When we introduce such a thing, all those importers who are importing caps and fists today will be detimized because they will not be paid to import meat that is two, three, or as old as we could hear for many years. Of course, it would be wrong to conclude, when we talk about this law, that the priority for the adoption of this law is exclusively membership in the European Union. This law also improves the standards of implementing measures in the agriculture sector itself, also simplifying and increasing transparency are the basic features of this regulation which will ultimately result positively on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for users of measures, for our farmers, for taxpayers, but also for our consumers whom we really do not only want to but also have an obligation to offer a quality and healthy correct product. But the fact that in this segment we may have run a little before the ore, we remember the salary and the maids who are banned from selling cheese, which is quite common at all other cryings, or fairs in all other European countries, where we have made larger Christians than the pope, it is not the law of the Ministry of Agriculture, but of another ministry, and where we have basically brought too strict regulations which, in our opinion in the HSS club should not have been, because if we are calling on the countries of the European Union, then we must have one continuity there and we should look to those countries that allow the sale of cheese and cream without visors on the beach, but it is known under what conditions, which temperature should be and how long it should stand open. I also remember that one of our delegations county visited a farm in Austria, where you have a farm to grow in the calf system, and right next to that farm is a slaughterhouse and there is no problem with health care. So we need to bring ourselves a little bit into these frameworks of the European Union, we don't really need to be above the European Union in certain things that are going to harm our agricultural producers, but also citizens in general, because there have been other areas of law where we havetened in front of the European Union. I would also like to draw further attention here to the use of public funds through certain measures of this law, to the additional aspect of the implementation of fiscal responsibility in the use of public funds, which were fully followed by this law. The implementation of all measures of this law which have a fiscal effect, in the direct authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which decides on the need and purpose of spending these funds, and the other argument which is important and which also shows the taking over of responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is knowingly deliberate and justified spending of public funds, and this has been resolved through a series of provisions, in particular I mean inspection, administrative control, control on the ground and through the implementation of market regulation measures. There's already been public intervention support for private storage, so I don't think there's any need to repeat it further. I would just like to highlight those of our specificities and particularities, which is, of course, specificity when it comes to the sugar and milk sector, where we are facing major challenges when we enter the European Union, so we know that the quota remains for these two agricultural products, milk has a production quota, but that quota will be abolished in 2015 in all the Member States of the European Union, according to the announcements that we have, so after April 2015, everyone will be able to produce as much as he wants when it comes to milk. And of course, who's going to get better on the market, that's going to work, that's already the question of the market itself. There are two quotas for milk. One quota for the delivery to the milkmen. The second quota is direct sales, meaning the quantity that producers place on their farm, but neither the first nor the second includes their own consumption. And somewhere in the motions that move is that both the first and second quotas would be at 750 million liters. What is known to remain after 2015 is the sugar quota, but the ban on raising new vineyards should be lifted on the other side of 2015, and this is one of the measures regulating the market, so it is intended to prevent the hyperproduction of wine. This ban should be lifted at European Union level, so it does not apply to us because we are not in the European Union. It should be abolished in 2015, and after that, we will be able to continue to raise vineyards normally according to personal affinity, some economic plans that farmers will have. It is visible through this bill that no additional resources are needed for, which should be provided for its implementation, is thus shown in the budget projections. I believe, i.e. we at the HSS club hope that there will be no greater turbulence on the market, especially the food market. It is our view that it is indeed the cornerstone of every sovereignty and independence of the state to ensure self-sufficiency in food production, and we are indeed giving strong support to all the measures that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia invests in this regard. Of course, in this segment it is done and should be realistic, it should be acknowledged and said, that if we compare to 2003, when there were 135 thousand family economies in the register, we have 195 thousand today, which means an increase of 40%, and this is an indication that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has helped agricultural producers who have not therefore reduced how some want to show that agricultural producers are extinct, they are not, because the number has been increased by 40%. Also when we talk about areas that are listed in the register, we had 700 thousand acres, today we have a million and 50,000 acres. Of which there are 750 thousand hectares in the incentive system, which means that everything used is not in the incentive system, but there are also objective problems, Mr. Secretary of State, it's about pasture surfaces. I am here to support you and your team working on the construction of the Law on Agricultural Land, that this law is referred to the procedure as soon as possible, because it will address the issue of pasture management, the establishment of pasture communities, and then the possibility of enrolling those hectares in the register, which is going very hard today, and of course the support that is inescapable for anyone who deals with agriculture, because they are necessary, because agriculture is a national interest, and that is why it is important to support it. Some people think it's a social category, but they're still in the past tense, so I'm not gonna waste my words on it. And I would also like to say that here today, according to some estimates, a million and 300 thousand hectares are being processed, which is also a constant shift. I think it's a good thing that we've managed to win a 12-year transitional period for selling land, so 12 years is a ban on selling land to foreigners. And I believe in the HSS Club that we are actually through this 735m-euro financial envelope for the first and second pillars of agriculture plus what extra for fishing it goes up to some 800m euros, plus this inability for foreigners to buy land for 12 years. And the negotiations that take place around the mined land that would be put into operation, I think we are indeed on the trail of what we have advocated and what we have promised. And I believe that even these unfinished things that I have mentioned, I repeat the word is help in the organisation of agricultural producers they have to organise themselves for the market, not everyone can perform themselves because then it is a problem, a question of disabling imports and the issue of legalisation of their facilities where we in the HSS Club really expect stronger assistance from municipalities and cities, but also a clear commitment of state institutions to solve this problem. Because if farmers fail to legalise their facilities before joining the EU, they will not be able to use rural development measures. I remind you that this is a financial envelope that weighs almost 400 million euros. So it is our duty from local to state level to make great efforts in this segment to help Croatian agriculture. If we help the Croatian farmer, we help the Croatian man stay in the Croatian village, which means that we actually support these people who are the real guardians of Croatian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66988	Thank you. We have a representative of the HDSSB, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66989	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I wanted to raise the plate with the correction of the incorrect quote to Ms. Mariana Petrir, but now that I'm up to it, I've decided to say that she just spoke like some opposition representative in that middle part of the exhibition, and here it is at the end. So I don't understand if the HSS has already been in power for 10, 11 years since 2000 that it hasn't been able to implement exactly what she was saying. And that's to quote, so the register of pasture surfaces in the registers, so that's a ban on importing meat older than not to say from Pontius Pilate imported by our importers and distributors, that agriculture becomes a national interest, not a social category. Then, to stop wandering about, about the agricultural production strategy and whether Croatia will have, like I don't know, America or I don't know how many 5% of farmers with large surfaces, or how many 195 thousand OPG are now, family farms. So, one lasting wandering in that sense, which strategy is to move forward and lead, although we are, we intend to enter the EU and work on it for many years, but we ourselves don't really know what to do and how to go on. So then legalization of the facilities, so the farms and the others, and you talked about it, Mrs. Petir, and then the sugar and milk quotas that are dictated to us, are clearly dictated. There are no agreements or talks or negotiations. France on sugar, milking from Poland and beyond. So, then, that only 12 years will be, I say, a delayed period or period during which foreigners will not be able to buy Croatian agricultural land even though they are now buying it indirectly or indirectly as owners of companies that are registered here, and I can also give you an example in Brod-Posavina County. Through Mercator, they buy land in the municipality of Sibinj. So, Slovenians are buying through... bought by those domestic companies and bought by Mercator. Well, then Mercator came into possession of agricultural land. Here's one obvious example. Here, that's what's said, so I have to look back. Now this law, which is here in the proposal in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Agricultural Products. As the HNS colleague said, we did not bring the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development, and we do not have any strategy for agriculture and rural development. So how are we going to pass this law when we don't have the foundation? We're building a roof, a finish, horns, lattices and a scrape, and we don't have a foundation. So we don't really know when we don't have the National Agricultural Programme how we're going to do it here right now and implement this law clearly dictated by Europe. This is merely the fulfilment of the directive and the conditions set by Europe for the closure of Chapter 11 and nothing more. It is the performance of the homework set by Europe. And the conditions in that homework, how many verbs, nouns, attributes, the position we don't know. I see Mrs. Petyr is relatively well informed. But the public isn't informed. She hasn't been informed. We asked both as a party and as officials, the representatives to publish the data that was negotiated at 11. The chapter that we know what Croatian peasants are waiting for when they enter Europe, and it's not as well as you're doing in the essay you were just talking about. He's not waiting well, and I'm afraid a large number, as you say, will disappear. Because of the many things that come here, which I'm about to set as examples for which it can come. I repeat, therefore, the adoption of this law is merely the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 11, which is even stated in the justification for the adoption of this law. What will result from the application or adoption of this law? Is compliance with these obligations seen what this will mean for individual sectors, i.e. how it will affect these sectors of agricultural production? The obligation to adopt these national programmes in the fruit, vegetables, wine, beekeeping sectors has also been established within one year of the entry into force of the draft legislation, but this has not been adopted. The raising of the permanent plantation programme has not achieved the planned results in the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that the government document pre-accession economic programme 2011-2013 established the obligation to adopt strategic documents, in particular the Strategy for the Development of the Economy. It is apparent or apparent that there are no programmes for the development of certain segments which are the basic documents for the development of the state and there are no documents for the development of agriculture. At its 105th session held on 25 January 2011 7 days ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considered the pre-accession Economic Programme 2012-2013. For the most part, there is no document in this programme that speaks of neither aid nor the development of the food processing industry of agricultural products. And this legislative proposal discusses all possible agricultural products on milk, sugar, wine, hops, not to speak further cereal, olives, fruits, vegetables, pork, sheepmeat, poultry, eggs, processing, beekeeping, etc. Now that Mrs. Petir is talking about it and importing, then I must remind her that from this pay phone, not only me, but a large number of speakers are constantly warning her and not only warning but it lists almost many of the ruling funny messages and figures that speak of ruthless imports and destruction of domestic agriculture. And yet again, I repeat, the HSS has been at the head of the RH farm resort for 10 years. The very data on imports and exports of agricultural products suggests that we are actually making this legal proposal for importers and distributors, not for domestic production. We arrange them, we will no longer eat the meat from Brazil 20 years old, neat quality, biologically correct but quality is questionable, but we will arrange it as in Europe for six months for pork, so no meat from Bulgaria and Romania's half of swine over a year old as is now imported. So he says that these import and export data that I have tabled are defeated here for the government and for the RH farm resort. The only thing about apples, if we're going to consider fruit, is that we have imports for 2005, and I'm saying that there would be no confusion of 20 thousand 372 tons, and the export of 9,000. These other pears, dunes, cherries, cherries, apricots, peaches, strawberries, plums are catastrophic data and proportions between imports and exports. So, for example. We export 2 tons by letter and by number, and we import 2 thousand and 204 tonnes. A disaster, apricots or whatever they say about us in Slavonia Kassia. Vegetables, except for cabbages whose exports are covered by 50% imports, so 2,000 tonnes of cabbage and thousands of tonnes exported. This second one is a tomato disaster, a red onion, for garlic we know that it is imported from China, the Valley of the Nile, watch out from the Valley of the Nile garlic from Egypt, etc. And why is that even imported? They say that imports are used well to create exports. In what? In what's being processed. There's little going on the market for this. So, we're talking about a homemade product like Vegeta or I don't know what, and in that ingredient, that Vegeta is 90% from imports. And they're not domestic, Vegeta's domestic, the home brand would say. And now we're talking about agriculture, and we're making a legislative proposal called what it's called, which is where it's going to be arranged, and how it says clearly for sugar exports here. What does that mean? This means the specific abolition of one sugarcane of three that exists now in Croatia, Virovitica, Županja and Osijek. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary of State? That's it. You shouldn't be whispering here, but you have to say it loud and clear. And that's what people are afraid of in the field. And people know that in the field, they know that, and they don't know anything about everything else. No one's informing them. No one informs the villagers what awaits them by joining the EU. And he's hiding and there's no telling why he's hiding. We'll get there slowly. So, I'm not saying I'm not going to be boring about all the import and export quotas. Then from the production and consumption of frozen food in the Republic of Croatia and its imports of meat, seafood, ice cream, poultry meat, dairy, fruit... and porridge etc. All your data is devastating. According to these data, therefore, if the structure of exports is analysed, it can be seen that this is the result of imports for export purposes rather than an increase in domestic production of frozen food. Due to the lack of food industry development or due to lack of processing industry, many agricultural products in Croatia are failing, and Croatia is seeing imports of significant quantities of food. By developing food and processing of agricultural products according to natural options, which are farms of a large, healthy, unpolluted, quality land, climate conditions, irrigation opportunities, habits and experience of the population, Croatia should become a significant food exporter from food importers. However, this bill, and the lack of a national programme for agricultural production and rural development and the Strategy for Agricultural Production and Rural Development, does not achieve this. The law itself as a law is administratively to say well-organised, written under the European Union's measures, but I express my dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Agriculture, and also with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is, in fact, what Mrs Petir has already said that agriculture is not really a national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66990	Thank you. A few corrections. First, Madam Representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am flattered that my colleague Grubisic is always writing down my thoughts, ideas and based on this he is making his discussions. I should correct his entire debate because he has turned absolutely everything, but how much HSS was in power is a matter of elementary mathematics by telling my colleague Grubisic to check his incorrect allegations, recalculate and then correct himself. My colleague Grubisic, I said that significant shifts were made, that 40% of the number recorded in the register, 30% of the increased hectares of agricultural areas registered in the register, and that the financial envelope of the European Union confirmed what HSS was saying, that we need 6 billion per year for the Croatian village and that we have now received it. If we succeed in withdrawing depends on you, colleague Grubisic, who here from this pay phone is always afraid of peasants instead of coming down among them. I was with my parents on Saturday and talked about legalizing the facilities. You're out there somewhere in Slavonia as far as I've heard in power, so get your chiefs, mayors and mayors to get rid of the bags and help the villagers legalize the facilities, not that we're doomed to listen to Zenica blues all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66992	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66993	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank my colleague Petir for saying most of what I wanted, but I will correct you when you say that the public is not informed and that agriculture is not of the national interest of this government and the Republic of Croatia. Agriculture is of the national interest of this government and the Republic of Croatia will continue to be, and the secret was just answered by your colleague, Petir. My colleague, in my presentation, I will tell you that nothing is hidden and that those who are interested in them and get an answer, and yours as a parliamentary representative is really what your colleague told you to go amongst your peasants, farmers and provide them with all that they care about, which is the information they have, of course. .../The Intruder doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66994	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic made several incorrect allegations.../The speaker turned off./... but I will say that you said that agriculture is a social category, that permanent wanderings are present, that we do not create the foundations of quality agriculture. It's all incorrect, colleague Grubisic. It's all incorrect what you said. Agriculture is a strategic branch and of course a national interest. The creation of the foundation in support of this is covered by all this information from a colleague named Petir, and in addition by an increase in milk production of 170 million litres since 2003, over 500 modern stops. And please, I'll tell you more, and in the interest of information, I want to tell you that the largest number of dairy cattle in Osijek-Baranja County is so you're saying that it's unbalancedly developing. So, it's an operational programme in cattle, operational programmes in winemaking, olive growing, all of it deprives you. This is a responsible approach to agriculture, not cooking sausages at protest points, and thus breaking the law, health-specific laws, you can spread infectious diseases. So that's the way to approach, not question another...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66996	Ms. Nevenka Marinović:
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66997	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic, who said that the only reason for the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the markets in agricultural products is to satisfy the European Union in order to close Chapter 11. My colleague, this is indeed one important reason, meeting the standards and harmonising the procedure. However, it seems to me that I have lifted the table too soon because you have denied yourself in the follow-up of your debate when you mentioned other reasons for making these amendments, such as the adoption of the National Programme and the precision of certain provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66998	And Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u66999	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, said the operational programme on the raising of years-old losses did not meet expectations. That's not true, pal. Based on the Agricultural Land Act, since 2003, all units of local self-government had to adopt programmes on the availability of agricultural land from 1 April, the Ministry of Agriculture should agree. After that, the Ministry of 2004 seemed to have brought me this Operational Programme and we in our Zadar County have already completed quotas when it comes to olive growing... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Based on co-financing. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Vice President, can I? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Based on co-financing by local self-government units, we are also supporting the Ministry of Agriculture today where we are, and why didn't you ask yourself what your colleague asked you before, not to cry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67000	Thank you. Now it's an individual debate. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67001	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I will only briefly continue the debate concerning this Law on the regulation of the agricultural products market because most of it was said by my colleague, Petir, colleagues from the HDZ Club and the HSS. On 19 February 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Action Plan for Harmonisation of the Agricultural Products Market in the European Union, fulfilling one of the three criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 11. The Action Plan sets out time limits for legal and administrative harmonisation in the area of market regulation measures for the milk, sugar and fruit and vegetables sectors, as well as for horizontal measures relating to all sectors, trade measures, intervention measures, controls and reporting. This law is a mandatory part of Croatia's harmonisation with the functioning of the European Union's market mechanisms and is accompanied by a declaration of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The law, as the applicant has stated, sets out the conditions for the activation of certain market regulation measures as well as the way and measures governing the market for certain sectors of agricultural products. Furthermore, this law determines who are involved in the implementation of the market regulation mechanism, i.e. who are the users of those measures, and their control. For these reasons, the law has already been confirmed in its adoption as necessary for certain sectors of agricultural production, cereals, sugar, hops, olive oil and table olives, fruit and vegetables, and their processing of wine, living plants, flowers, beef, pig meat, sheep and goats, meat of poultry and eggs, milk and processing, bee products and other products, dried feed, ethanol, and flax and hemp. And now, some improvements are proposed that are important for its ease of implementation. For this reason, at this point, the agricultural sector needs its adoption and so on. In this law, the emphasis is on strengthening the records and establishing a transparent system of data collection on the agricultural market, defining the obligations of the participants to provide data to the services responsible for the preparation of the report and the reporting task by which reports are provided in all the relevant services and, inter alia, the European Commission's service, and this applies after the entry into the European Union. In the implementation of this law, it is extremely important to establish in a clear way the level of prices in which some of the modes of public intervention must be included, lay down the conditions in which intervention measures or private storage and other public intervention measures are activated. Some sectors require specific treatment methods, i.e. the allocation of a production quota such as milk and sugar, so the introduction of these rules is of great importance for compliance with the rules with the acquis as well as for the acquisition of practices in the national enforcement services of paying agencies. It's important for the accession process. It is an exceptional role in strengthening the process of harmonising the way the producers of fruits and vegetables, olive oil, since the harmonisation of these standards with European, essential conditions and for further use of support funds from both current pre-accession funds and in the future and structural funds. Of course, for these reasons it is necessary to determine the rights and obligations both for their recognition and for the fundamental provisions which these entities must adhere to after recognition. Part of the procedure for the control of law enforcement is prescribed at the level sufficient for the smooth implementation, and the law is complemented by provisions relating to control and control mechanisms, the distribution of the powers of individual bodies as criminal provisions relevant for the implementation of this law. Following the above, I will support, of course, the adoption of these proposed amendments and the addition of laws for the sake of the process of harmonisation with European legislation but also the importance of the proposed improvements which allow for better and transparent implementation and application. In particular, we support the adoption and implementation of these proposed market mechanisms in the Croatian agricultural market system as well as the application of the same regulatory measures as in the European Union countries. And now I'm asking you to let me have it if it is, my colleague is gone. I wanted to say a few sentences about a sector that really prepared itself for this Law, which is the beekeeping sector. You will certainly find it interesting to know that there are 7 and a half thousand beekeepers in the Republic of Croatia. They are lords of 8 and a half thousand bees, which means some 367 000 bees communities. If you multiply that 367000 times 40, that's a relatively good contribution to the bee community. You'll see what it's made of honey and importance. Croatian beekeepers have asked several questions and asked for these changes to finally be brought forward so that they could function on the market. Namely, they are also participating in these supports. They have prepared for these support in such a way that the National Programme of Croatian Beekeeping has been adopted by 2014, and for 2011, they have also foreseen for this improvement of the conditions for the production and keeping of bee products and national aid for the protection of beekeepers. Well, I must tell you that they have come to understand very early what this is about and that the support system in the countries of the European Union does not provide for direct support but includes programmes and this health protection of bees, the organisation of quality control of honey, the preservation and expansion of bee funds, information, etc. And for that reason, they have the following programs in this section to compete with for support, which is a health care programme for bees especially in the fight against welds where, for example, they will be provided to every beekeeper for free of one product that will be able to treat their bees. I have to tell you that beekeepers have also prepared themselves in a way that has been passed to the bee communities and related to that cadastre we now have this exact number of beekeepers and bees communities, but also beekeepers. Then, among other things, the control of honey in the Republic of Croatia goes in a way that in all 21 counties, honey will be controlled throughout the year and it will be three free analyses that will be a pollen analysis, share of water and HMF for a maximum of three samples of honey. Then there's the support of expanding the preservation of indigenous gray bees, so technical assistance... beekeeping because we need to know that in some counties, beekeepers are moving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're driving their hives on one of the means of transport, so that goes into this technical aid to beekeepers who are going to be right in these, to help protect bees in the difficult structures. So I wanted to make it clear to everyone who thinks that some of the sectors are not informed. They did. Those who are interested in this are informed, and it is up to us to try to know where we need to give more information in what way to cooperate with the people on the ground, as said counterpart Petyr. Of course, agriculture is not a social component to us. Our agriculture is of national interest to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to Croatia in general. And we believe that only by investing in agriculture will we create good conditions for a better life but also for a great economic, start-up of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67002	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67003	Mr. Chairman, here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products, and if we remember back in 2009 this Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products was adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 2 December. It is worth noting here that this Law on the regulation of the markets in agricultural products has also been implemented in part to comply with the measures of the agricultural product market prescribed by the EC Council Regulation, i.e.... , introducing a common organisation of agricultural markets and specific provisions for certain agricultural products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, there are regulated and prescribed market regulation measures in certain sectors of agricultural products,... the body in carrying out the control system and the inspection itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The regulation law itself includes, above all, the measure to which this market is regarded as such and regulated and, above all, it enters the segment of market intervention itself, so all that is considered to be market interventions, and about them... Regulating, talking about marketing standards, and talking about producer sectoral organisations, and the measures taken in trade with other countries and implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I am referring to import and export licences, quotas, tariff quotas, quotas, export quotas for sugar, etc., and some specific measures for the sector, in the milk, sugar, wine sector, etc. Furthermore, this law itself sets out the obligation to collect data and from reporting on the market for agricultural products, and the implementation of the market regulation measures itself, thus establishing a system for future reporting of the European Commission. So what is now in front of us, on the tables, is the law on which these amendments define certain concepts, i.e. certain measures which primarily refer to the method of determining the intervention price, and also the segments related to private storage, to the segments related to sugar quotas, and in a similar way to the editing of such and quotas for certain other products. Here it may be interesting to say about it and there has been a lot of debate about that the agricultural social category, we who have certain links especially with family economies that are related to the part of agricultural production, above all, I will perhaps briefly look back on the winemaking and the winery of the Croatian state... the measures, but also the farmers themselves have given the last 10 years of great... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a step in quality production, i.e. the cultivation of vines, and then production and quality of wine, certainly these shifts are visible today, but it is worth saying that by entering the European Union, this wine market will remain particularly open. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since I live with at the border near Slovenia, so there is... quality number of producers, primarily wine growing, so grapes, after that and the wine which I dare say today in the quality of production have moved away, gone far from standard production, what we call under the ordinary denominator quality wine, already have a palette and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] products from champagne, to late harvests or winter harvests, which points to the permanent and necessary and education in the agricultural production segment, which is very often not the case, although I repeat here again and say that we have made exceptional shifts in this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I only point out that because, in practice, I've had the opportunity to compare it in this way. ... Perhaps according to another comment that was related to this debate, and it concerns something very important, and it is also called a colleague named Petyr, which is the legalisation of agricultural facilities in rural economies... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , it's actually just one sentence, but the problem is much more complex, because it enters into a complex topic related to solving the property relations of the owners themselves, where we have to admit ourselves that through history and through centuries today we as either owners, or through... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have not resolved the ownership issue through generations in such a way that it is grunting 1/1, which puts a large part and a question, problemises the question of possible faster resolution and legalisation of existing objects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We further know how and through what through the Law on Building Objects which are or are not up to '68. For years as such to be recognised through footage of space, so all I've just said is about necessity, and I support a subject that says that as soon as possible legalise economic agricultural facilities, it means involving a wider segment of society in solving this problem, so from the owners of agricultural areas themselves, to, through cataster resolution, in grants, in municipal courts, and so... all those participants in these procedures in order to address these problems as best as possible and better in time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We who often have within our daily work the subject of legalization of buildings since 1968, so the time which is one base period, related to building permits and possible acceptance... We have problems to deal with 10, 20, 30 or 50 years of non-resolvement of these property relations, and as a prerequisite for legalisation, we also bring municipal courts, as well as grants in the position of large and intense pawnage and action, and we in certain units of local self-government through our own recognition of certain costs of this work we contribute to this problem as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, taking into account all of the above, it is clear that this proposal, the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of the agricultural product market and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67004	Thank you. And Madam Representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67005	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here, I would like to remind you that the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products includes many measures to improve markets such as market interventions, marketing standards, recognition of producer and sectoral organisations and producer groups, as well as measures applied in marketing with other countries. So import and export quotas, customs quotas and so forth. Afterwards, specific measures for certain sectors such as milk, sugar, wine, hops and others. Furthermore, the law also prescribes the obligation to collect data and to report on the market in agricultural products and to implement market regulation measures in order to naturally prepare the Republic of Croatia in a timely and better manner for the EU. I would like to highlight the most important provisions of these amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products with a final proposal which will also enable me to support this proposal, which is: firstly the first reason why this proposal ensures full compliance with the obligations arising from the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 11. - I hold unlike my colleague Grubisic that this is extremely important. The next reason is that this proposal specifies certain concepts, prescribes market regulation measures, means in relation to existing expressions, and for the better. The third reason is that this law specifies that in the olive oil sector, and I will remind you that already today we have a production of 5 million litres of olive oil, and based on the programme of what was previously mentioned here, means an operational programme for the raising of multi-annual plantations, which in this region I come from has achieved really exceptional results because now in Zadar County we have about a million olive trees, that somewhere around 860 thousand ordered olive trees and oil production has been significantly increased, but also the processing industry in that segment. So, I support this law because it defines, means that in the olive oil and table olives sector and the fruit and vegetable sector, support to producer groups and sectoral organisations is given for activities envisaged by the work programme, the recognition plan or the operational programme, which I believe is extremely important because of the very control of the funds. Furthermore, the following is the reason why I support the provisions that say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings the National Programme in the fruit and vegetable sectors, wine, we have also achieved significant success in the production of grapes, but also the quality of wine and beekeeping. I also support it for the following reason because the law further discusses provisions on the register of fruit and vegetables traders, but also measures used when non-compliance with the criteria I hold is also important. I also welcome a more precise proposal on how to determine the compliance of fruits and vegetables with mandatory market standards, but also on the control of compliance with inspection supervision, i.e. administrative control and control in the field of the implementation of market regulation measures. And what is most important and why I really support this bill is that this proposal means, apart from this more detailed, more precise arrangement of many areas, but also the protection of the responsibility of the entities in this segment in the event of major market disturbances, which was spoken of by counterpart Kresho, the government has assumed responsibility for using taxpayers' funds which I hold extremely important and for which I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67006	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is my first pleasure to express my gratitude for the very useful debate and support that you have given to the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Market Planning. It is my pleasure to repeat and reaffirm that this is the last law to conclude our adaptation in Chapter 11. And on this occasion, I would like to thank you to the parliamentary representatives for the assistance and support you have given to your area, which concerns Chapter 11. It is useful to reiterate that in this process of negotiating the adaptation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, most of the formal-legal adaptation to European legislation has been carried out. What is measurable of all possible documents and page numbers 40% of all documents have been completed, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. It is also necessary here, I am pleased to remind you that the Republic of Croatia has strategic documents for the area of development of agriculture and rural development. In 2002, this Assembly adopted a Strategy for the Development of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, which is still valid, no one challenged it. In 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Rural Development Strategy despite the work on a large number of commitments, related to the adjustment process. We are also working on developing the National Development Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Agriculture managed to complete all its obligations in time, we hope in quality, and in this adjustment process in 3 chapters we have almost brought all chapters to a final, hopefully successful, conclusion. And these are chapters 11, 12 and 13. Among other things, we point out the very good cooperation we have in the meantime established with all our producers, their associations, associations, but also with local self-government units and regional self-government and administration units. In particular, we highlight the realisation and insurance and planning of procedural resources for the development of agriculture and villages, which this Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government has ensured the implementation of all national and pre-accession measures. And so we can say that in this year's budget for agriculture and the village has not been reduced compared to the previous year. It should also be pointed out that the secured funds and successful implementation of the IPARD programme amounting to more than one billion kuna in this year, and projects related to the development of the food industry can also be co-financed from these funds. I must also remind you that as parliamentary representatives, you have had the opportunity to take part, through your representatives on the National Committee, in the adoption of a final negotiating position for Chapter 11 and that you have done so unanimously by accepting unanimously the final developed position addressed to the European Commission, which we hope will be in April this year and successfully completed. This bill of law, I hope, will further speed up our adaptation to both the standards of formal law and the real implementation in practice. I thank you again for your support and for the remarks you have made to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-02-0.u67008	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, then on protection against light pollution. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products. The amendment was submitted by the Committee of Legislatives. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Legislative Committee, which are not voted on, and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I hereby set 96 votes for, three abstentions of the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted.
