ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80393	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. So if you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we discussed this regulation in what we talked about and when we translated the regulation into law. Therefore, it is a regulation adopted by the Government in early August, and as a safeguard measure to protect the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia due to a sharp rise in the price of gas, it is primarily meant by industrial consumers and by the fact that this regulation is now being translated into law, I believe that you will also adopt this report which the Government is proposing to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80394	Thank you. Does he want a representative of the board? Mr Emil Tomljanović, on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80395	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a very short one. In front of us is the Report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. At the 135th session held on 27 September 2011, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Report on a Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 August 2011. The Legislative Committee supports this report, and there are no objections to its text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80396	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the Regulation amending the Gas Market Act, which is amended and states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, for a certain period, prescribe a maximum level of gas price for privileged customers in order to protect the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia and ensure international competitiveness, taking into account the price of gas on the international market for the same or similar categories of privileged customers. Very often we come to situations where it is necessary to take such measures, especially in the context of the crisis. This is one example that it is necessary to take differentiated, selective and targeted measures when it is essential to protect the interests of the Croatian economy that the government has done, which is now subject to regulation and legislation. That's why the HDZ club supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80398	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80399	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here in an individual debate, I will point out that this report absolutely needs to be supported and I agree with the State Secretary, who said in the opening statement that we have actually made an important statement about the contents of the regulation, as well as the constitutional, legal basis for the adoption of this regulation when we discussed the law. This law we pass in fact every year in the Croatian Parliament has enabled the implementation of the Constitutional Institute of the Legislative Delegation, which specifically means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given legal authority or founding under Article 88. The Constitution that, at a time when the Assembly does not meet certain questions and these questions, as such, is regulated in the cited article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so to speak, and these questions are from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. One of these issues that has arisen, which should have really been settled and well that is, the content of that regulation relating to the gas market, i.e. the regulation and method of determining the level of gas price in the economy. I think we've actually heard all about it, and in that positive sense, how this solution has positively affected the course of economic activity when we talk about a very important energy and whose price affects many economic operators. In any event, this should be accepted as a good, positive solution and as a single government reaction under one specific conditions that allowed positive market movements when we talk about this problem or about this segment of the economy. It may also have to be noted that, I don't know if it's sufficiently emphasized, that a regulation like this has its own deadline. It is also based on the constitutional provision for a year, and what happened in the meantime is that the text or content, the essence of this regulation, was incorporated into the law that we voted on in the Croatian Parliament. Following everything exposed absolutely this report should be accepted, considering it naturally in the context of that debate, also supporting the law when we have actually introduced the content of this Regulation into the legal text. Following everything exposed, this report should be absolutely accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80400	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Tomljanovic, this is a timely and necessary and necessary intervention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but this reaction is a consequence, not a cause. The cause is in the INA, which has accumulated gas for industry by 14% under the most difficult conditions for management in the Republic of Croatia, without having to do so. The INA profile has only grown at the expense of that. They're getting more expensive raw materials, holding supplies of 40% more expensive raw materials. As the barrel price drops to 60 they keep on stock more old stock for 110 dollars they ordered for the whole year. No price change has been ensured and all of this is transferred to entrepreneurs and to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. There is no justification, and they are praised in public by increasing profits, and what worries me most is that hypocrisy where they are constantly trying to participate in some kind of media action, sponsoring certain events, and in fact, with this one decision on the collection, they have unjustly done great damage to the Croatian economy and entrepreneurs, and the Government has saved such a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80402	Answer Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80403	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for this replica. You have actually analysed the causes of this intervention and the adoption of a regulation, as well as a legal solution. And I would agree with you. You actually support the adoption, or acceptance of this report, as well as such legal solutions that have made it impossible for all of these negative things that you've been talking about. In my debate, I did not refer to INA's business, the way prices were determined, the way they were doing business, showing their profits for one single reason because I didn't think it was necessary. It is necessary, in fact, to highlight the role, the positive role of the government that intervened, on the basis of the adoption of this report. That is why this Institute of Legislative Delegations, and there is a mechanism of constitutional legal nature in such situations when the Government intervenes through the resolution ministry that all of this negatively which you are talking about is actually being contained. And that's why it's a good legal solution, and that's why this report needs to be accepted, and everything you've said is about business, the way a very important economic operator I wouldn't comment on on this agenda point. I assume you're right about your thinking, and you probably have in front of you and the paperwork, you're just being reasoned and speaking when you're talking about the business of that economic operator. In the sense of responding to your replica and one more thing may need to be underlined, that this instrument, this constitutional and legal foundation when the government reacts often on this side of the assembly or we have heard comments that this is actually unauthorized, that there is not enough information, that the government should not actually serve these regulations without the knowledge of the Parliament and the communication of the Parliament about what has been done. Here is the best example that this government has reached out to its constitutional authority only one time in the past time period and in a very good way. And that this regulation, by amending the law, actually intervened in a very sensitive economic activity and actually enabled normal business or easier business to a whole series of economic operators.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80404	We have another replica, Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80405	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, I would absolutely agree with Mr. Tomljenović's presentation, and so would colleagues Marić, where the government has really given this regulation a boost to the economy because at this point it is very important and necessary. In fact, all this and so far what has been happening and how companies that have a monopoly behave really is not commendable. We are aware that exactly INA has a monopoly in Croatia and that such companies that have a monopoly, there are others, really have to take care of the price of energy because they are, above all, very important for the economy at this point. The truth is, it's not that company that didn't take care of me. I don't know about the price of citizen gas. But when we talk about the economy if we know about energy prices in other countries then, in any case, we should take care of it rather than that the government has to intervene with this regulation. In any case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation is commendable to this regulation by many companies, and I will say it and in my debate it will certainly achieve some prosperity, because this regulation has contributed to this difficult situation where we all find ourselves together that companies that use energy and that is really gas come to this regulation to say so, and therefore your colleague is also focused on my thinking as well. And that is why I support that certain companies should make their own decisions, not that it must be done by the government. But at this point, the government really felt it was a need, and that's why it's very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80406	Thank you. Answer Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80407	Thank you very much. Well, I hope, dear colleague, I am also sure that you did not take my debate as any kind of support for the monopolitical position of any company in Croatia, especially in terms of non-market business, or in the sense that this monopoly is exploited for its own purposes by neglecting the environment of economic operators or those economic operators from which the business depends. I don't think that's the case, and I absolutely agree with you on that. I would like to emphasise once again that there are constitutional and legal legal mechanisms when the Government of the Republic of Croatia can intervene at a time when the Parliament does not meet, therefore by regulation, and during the meeting of the Assembly and the legislative interventions so that these negativity in the business of these large companies that have, in a sense, a monopoly position on the market regulates or reduces into some normal frameworks, normal limits so as not to endanger other economic operators with their own business and price display. And of course I agree with you that you've seen it well, so the Ministry of Economy and Government at that point, or in such a situation, by analysing the situation on the market, did indeed what had to be done. She brought in the regulation first. She later passed that regulation into the law. This legal solution exists now and is in force and I am convinced that, as far as the gas price is concerned, it will actually be a key foundation or a key basis for some negative things, so that you characterized as a monopoly not only to contain but also to the least possible extent and that our economic operators in these conditions, the difficult conditions of submission, are brought into such a situation that they can do better. That's how I say it better to function economically. This regulation, this law, this legal solution is the basis for this to happen, and in this sense, here I can commend the reaction of the resolution ministry that, under certain circumstances, it was spot-on and resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80408	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović's turn. Here you go. Excuse me, Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me just say through these few words about the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, which is why it has brought it in, as far as gas is concerned. We when we speak today, especially here in the assembly then, today we have the most people who know everything about the economy, because through their discussions, through their rhetoric in general in this Parliament prove that it is so easy to be a businessman today, that it is so easy to act as the director of the owners, but at the same time when we talk about problems then many do not understand it. They may not understand that and those who make a monopoly in Croatia today, so this is about gas and a company that is indeed a monopoly in Croatia. There are others who until a few years ago were monopoly, until the other competitive houses came, first of all, I mean telecommunications that have been teaching us business here for years, about profit, and at the same time they had no competition on the Croatian market. They gave us a lecture and convinced us, because we couldn't achieve anything and kept the price of services, and just as there were words here at the end of the year boasting their business results, and at the same time when they came to Croatia, I mean, first of all, Croatian telecoms that achieved enormous gains, and that at the same time as I said we didn't have any influence on it. Today, these companies also teach some of us lectures, and at the same time in their discussions they say they will fire or fire hundreds of people, and thus prove that they are only interested in profit. Yeah, I agree with that, too. But at the same time, that social sensitivity, if they also know that the only ones have come to the Croatian market, where they are and where they are allowed to make such extra profits a few years ago, are now somewhat lower because they have received competition. We also have today when we talk about the economy of the company too, first of all I mean gas distributors, so INA that has its own and its owner, that is where we are, and at this point here we are somewhere near 50:50 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and MOL, which also delivers gas, first of all here I am talking about the economy, at an extremely high price. If at the same time we know that in our environment in Hungary, in Italy the economy has 40% lower prices, then we must certainly be in the economy concerned because with such prices the economy in Croatia cannot be prosperous. This economy cannot primarily be competitive, and therefore the Government of Croatia's 2011 regulation is extremely justified because this regulation will allow the economy to have lower gas prices, and that is, ultimately, higher profits and easier business, easier to comply with its obligations. When we talk about the economy, I generally think it is very important to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not only through this regulation, but also through all of my activities, above all I think about the measures of economic recovery, did everything to help the economy because, as affected by this major global and economic crisis, it is necessary for the economy to work easier to come out of these difficulties. Since we also have 60% of our own gas sources, I am sure that when this regulation stops, it is not long-term, that both INA and MOL must pay greater attention to the economy in Croatia, because we have companies that are... about gas, where it's their strategic, strategic consumption or I don't know one big cost in their production. [[You don't understand.]] I must also mention here, and I come from Požega-Slavon County, that there are also many gas users in my county, and that this regulation of the Government has indeed been welcomed with approval. Of course, our goal and our desire is for this government regulation to be longer than 31.12. or better said as I said that INA and MOL realize that it is necessary to lower the price of gas, because in fact these consumers who use the price of gas today are consumers who will use it and in the future, without them there is simply no consumption, there is no sale, and INA will not be able to sell to those economies that are being extinguished if the price of gas is such that it simply can't bear that product. I also want to point out here that consumers as a June voice also at year level with this government regulation saves about 7 million kunas, or rather a million euros, that is a very large amount. But I'd like to give another example. Our sugars in the parish, our sugars in Virovitica, which this government regulation has made huge savings. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this regulation and savings only in the candy company in Županja and Virovitica, this company saved 20 to 25 million kuna at the level of the year. Do you know how much production it takes to save 20 to 25 million kuna? It is only one example in one company but we must also commend this company that they are with their savings and their owner did not put those savings in their pocket and could because it is a pure profit, but also with the savings and regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia redistributed that profit to their co-operatives. And what is important to say, the contract worked in 2010 and the regulation was in 2011 and it is commendable that they have just done so that they retroactively approved their co-operatives with a higher price, so they increased their price from 250 kuna to 300 kuna by 20%, and thus proved that the Government of Croatia regulation or any measures that this government will adopt and which will bring by the end of the year this is the last measure we have ever brought shows that it can redistribute to producers and thus provide incentives and development of agriculture and this government is precisely through various measures, and we have had a certain day to discuss exactly the incentives that have never been more than in 2011 is an indication that it is a guarantee of the existence of people in agriculture, but first of all these measures and the government should not be brought forward, but first of all should be, you know that the monopoly in Croatia that the right to increase the product of which would be the product, and therefore, for each producer, to be able to make it possible for each product of each product, and for each product. It is unacceptable for such companies to be monopolies while at the same time supporting this regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am aware that these measures will, first of all, contribute to the development of the economy and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80410	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You spoke about support in agriculture, I think it is necessary to repeat here that these support are 3 billion and 600 million kunas at year level and it is good to compare it with aids at a time of coalition authority that were somewhere at a level of billions and 300, it speaks very well for itself. But surely these support mainly helped our farmers to create competitive about this is often spoken of by competitive agriculture with which, of course, we should continue to create more competitive, a few days ago we had a debate in this high home about the aids that await us by entering the European Union and where our negotiators negotiated very well, and in that part we can expect with optimism. So this speaks of responsibility to our farmers, it is always necessary to respond because it is one responsible relationship to our farmers, in addition to that speaking and increasing the consumption of milk, a number of modern stops have been built and, of course, on these foundations we must continue to create a framework for a competitive and quality agriculture, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80412	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80413	Well, my colleague, I absolutely agree with your thinking, of course, I was talking about government regulations and gas, but when we talk in general, we're talking about one regulation now, so, and the savings that we've achieved only in certain companies. Imagine how much savings these are at the level of Croatia, at the level of those companies that are large gas consumers, and when we talk about agriculture, respected friends I am sure and we are all aware that this kind of support in agriculture has never been since the 1990s since the establishment of the Republic of Croatia. From 1.3 billion in 2000, when the coalition government was acting therefore in parliament and government up to 3.6 billion, it is indeed such a leap and a boost for anyone who deals with agriculture. And we have just witnessed in our counties, I will not go now to the Republic of Croatia and I know a colleague that in your county, or rather in your place you have made a terrible development of farmers in terms of beefing that you are an example in Croatia, and that these are precisely measures that this government through incentives and through everything else that has been said for the development of the economy achieved, because without such measures there would be no such results. I have to say, only blind people who don't want to see it, and see those same incentives don't want to admit it. The truth in these difficulties, this government is the only government that has faced the global and economic crisis since the 1990s it's been a time of war and all, but gentlemen at the time of the war, we knew what we're going to produce, to whom we're going to sell, we've had buyers who, at the same time in today's conditions, have no business, and this government is facing all these difficulties, and so I thank you for everything it has done to achieve prosperity in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80414	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, and we'll decide when the conditions are met. and the conditions can be obtained at 12 hours when we will vote and ask all clubs, all MPs and MPs to return to the assembly to decide on some things that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. If we've been exposed all along, I have to say right now, that the Parliament only works on the tide, and the other one doesn't admit it, because we've always had and counted how many advocates there are in the benches, then by that logic that I disagree with, it's just working here. I've been arguing, and now I'm saying it's about committees, I don't know what these guys aren't. The committees are not maintained, that they work at clubs, and clubs are not maintained, and the claim that they are then working in the Parliament I don't know, except for phone contact with the base. You don't even work at the base. How to work when the Croatian Parliament is in session. Because of this, although I do not seem to succeed, I urge all MPs and MPs to participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament in order to take advantage of the several more days until the Croatian Parliament's disbandment and to be responsible for their actions before the Croatian public and Croatian voters. I have an impression that I want to say here publicly, no matter what happens afterwards, that some have decided that they will not participate in the work of the Parliament, and that they are subsequently looking for explanations to justify it to the public. So there was a decision before that she wouldn't, and then there was an explanation. If there was a question of insult, I'm saying this to encourage them to come back, if there was an insult, there were before and worse, we've heard some insults and excuses. Not only the Vice-President's apologies, but the Prime Minister's too. I don't remember hearing an apology for qualifications and insults like flies of zuzzara, white-headed soup, etc. No, because obviously we should always apologize to each other, and the other should do the same thing or worse, not apologize. But let's forget it, let's rise above these tiny calculations, because I expect the public to well judge who puts problems on their backs and solves them, and even when they are unpopular and unpopular measures, and who flees and supports anyone living who seeks something, so the sum of those promises that actually took responsibility would be three times as much as the state budget can bear. Where's the reality? I don't agree with many things myself, but I appreciate them in the context of the need of state, maintenance of stability and the completion of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament, as is the case with representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I invite all clubs, without exception, all colleagues and colleagues whom I respect and appreciate to return to the assembly and to finish this sixth session of the Croatian Parliament together. This is what I wanted to say because I don't want to bear even the most minimal part of responsibility for something I can't, but I am obliged to do everything to make it happen, which is in my power. So I ask you also those who are in benches and those who are watching us now on television screens in various offices or in the lobbys to return to the Croatian Parliament. At 12:00 we will decide on a part of what is on our agenda or what we have discussed or what else we will discuss and all those who dispute the right of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the points of the agenda that have entered the agenda have no right. Anything that's entered the agenda can be discussed, and we'll decide when it's a quorum. Small, small calculations, small, small interests and inability to go over certain things despite excuses show that the plan was adopted before, and that they were then looking for reasons why they would not participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament. I ask you once again, with my respect for each individual, to return to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80415	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and colleagues. The humanitarian demining plan in 2010 planned to reduce the mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km2, maintaining the mark of the entire mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia, coordinating business and education and mine dangers and helping mine victims and strengthening international co-operation. At the beginning of 2010, the mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia was 887.7 km2. The implementation of all planned activities in 2010 planned to reduce the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km2, with 69.6 km2 or 5.9% increase for each commendation and certainly to congratulate all those who participated in this business from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, from donors, the Croatian Mine Action Centre and finally from our pyrotechnicians who did the work and did the work. In 2010 demining operations removed mine danger on the surface of almost 32 km2 of which was most realised in Osijek-Baranja County 8.3 km2. In the structure of demining areas 61% are agricultural areas over 80% of demining areas are orans for which interest is shown in the need for agricultural production of 15.6 km2, followed by forest areas with a share of 30% and maquis and karsts with a share of 9%. It should certainly be noted that of the total number of agreed demining operations 26.7% refers to safety priorities, 70.5% related to socio-economic development, and 2.8% to environmental priorities. As in previous years, the largest source of funding was the state budget with 66% of total funds or more than 284 million kuna, while other 34% were provided by legal entities and donors who almost regularly participate in the co-financing of demining. The planned reduction activity of the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was reduced by 11.5 km2 of the planned 4.2km2 was demined to reduce, and the area of 7.3 km2 was excluded by general reconnaissance. Since we have heard a series of data related to the state level in previous discussions, I will look back and brief you on the activities that took place in the Carlovakia County. Despite many acts of preventive character in the Karlovakia County area, as many as 60 people have been killed by mines since 1991. 286 were mostly more severe in 196 mine incidents. It's a happy circumstance that a few years ago the number of mine incidents in this space has decreased. Since the beginning of the demining process, the county has been systematically demining its priorities, of course, of course trying first to demining the area where the highest concentration of people was, and priorities were houses and gardens, economic facilities, facilities and transfers of municipal infrastructure, and then agricultural land and forests. And these very activities and these priorities are the premise for the protection of people and property, and it is very much for the development of economic activities in the field of the Karlovac County. Today, we can say that the demining process in the area of the carlovakia county has resolved the issue of minimality of almost all areas that were the most significant priorities, and the remaining mined areas under the forest are 68.2% and part of agricultural land 17.3% of the total mined area. A total of 18 km2 of mined space has been demined in our county, and about 14 km2 still needs to be demined. There is also 71 km2 of mine suspected space that has no record of being mined but is potentially suspicious and is not recommended to move along this area that is marked neatly by the warning boards of mine danger. It should also be said that the Carlovakia County is the density of the mined area 4. County in Croatia, and mines are located in 14 cities and municipalities in the county. The densest mined spaces are on the surface of the Municipality of Plaški, Lasinja and Josipdol and I will certainly point out here that the city from which I come in 2009. Completely cleared from mines, the town of Slunj. The average demining area per year in Karlovac County is between 2 km2 and 2.5 km2 and our wish is to increase the demining process in Karlovac by 3 to 4 years. In Croatia, there are a sufficient number of professional people, pyrotechnicians, good equipment and quality machines, to speed up and end the process with greater investment, or more financial resources to demining the process, and thus eliminate the possibility of human injury, as well as the damage our economy has suffered for years because of mine problems. Our action "Karlovak County without Mines" was launched with the intention of trying to solve the problem as quickly as possible with as much funds as possible from potential donors and with resources from the state budget. Last year, the Carlovica County provided in its budget 350 thousand kuna for demining which we have through... Doubled. [[You don't understand.]] We also planned for this year's funding at the same height, and I certainly believe that this way we will contribute to clearing our area of mine explosives as soon as possible. And finally, once again, I thank all those who participated in this process, the realization of this humanitarian demining plan on behalf of all those who are now free to use mined surfaces and certainly support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80417	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, director of CROMAC. Here I come from the area of mine suspected, from the area of the town of Pakrac, which today has 55 km2 mine suspected area, most significant participates in a total mine suspected area in the area of Požeko-Slavon County because almost 90% is just now located in the area of our city. It is far less than of course, which has been identified as a total mine suspected area, and especially after the military-redarative action "Glass" is much demining, much is no longer mine suspected anymore, but unfortunately large areas remain. I must say that what was really suspicious in the city itself, along the border areas of the city, along with the hospital in Pakrac, a kindergarten in Pakrac, where mine suspected areas were these priorities and it was really in short time with the help of both the state budget and the donors of CROMAC and demined. When we look at today the structure of the demining surfaces in the past year we see that there is really little left and little demining surfaces located in residential settlements, villages and cities and in most parts of Croatia, just such priority areas have been successful and demining over the past years, they are no longer mine suspected. So, in 2010, 61% of the demining surfaces were demining on agricultural areas, of which 80% of the oranica, 20% of the forest. This is exactly what follows in other parts of Croatia and in other years that are ahead of us, that these potentially attractive areas and for agricultural production, in particular here I mention ecological production which assumes that the land rests before organic agricultural production, and unfortunately our land rests here for 20, somewhere for 15 years. And when it becomes demining it is ideal for these types of agricultural production is one great potential. There are forest surfaces in second place. Large quantities of forest wood mass fail precisely because it cannot be accessed by mine suspected areas in our Slavonian forests, but here it is a little bit possible. It enables the exploitation of wood mass precisely in a way that as many forests, forest areas and demining as possible. Generally, the funds used for demining in both past and previous years are State budget funds. Never enough for us on the ground, of course, seems too little of these funds and I hope that here with the end of the economic crisis, with the improvement of the state budget and these funds in the coming years for demining will be more productive and will allow faster dynamic demining of mine suspected areas throughout the Republic of Croatia. In second place, it's donor funds. I'll take the same opportunity as my previous speakers, colleagues, to thank a large number of donors. The Norwegians and Japanese embassies, the Japanese government, and many others who helped finance mine suspected areas in western Slavonia, including throughout Slavonia, are being demined as soon as possible. There is still good will in them, but we can see that in the last year there was a little less donor funding than in the previous years. I believe that this is a short-term phenomenon, that this is the result of a crisis that is worldwide, in Europe as well as in us, and that the funds from the demining donations will increase over the coming years. We are at our disposal, we discussed this two days ago, in 2013 and 2014 more than 9 million euros in demining funds, and what is negotiated in Chapter 11 means for incentives in agriculture and incentives in rural development, which can be said on the ground that we are looking forward to these large funds coming in and spending themselves in quality, to reduce naturally mine suspected areas, to increase farmable areas, to allow even more quality and increased exploitation of wood mass in Slavonian and other forests in the Republic of Croatia. There is another mention here of 1322 mine incidents, more than 500 dead and with due regard to all these victims, express regret and condolences to members of their families, of course children who have died, adults, and especially to our boys pyrotechnicians who unfortunately die year after year. Recently, we had another incident where we lost another pyrotechnician in Croatia, and again, when we see what money these guys are working for, how much is the price of one demining square relative to the cost of cutting grass or some other municipal procedure in space, then it's really embarrassingly low. Here I am here, and I practice it both on the ground and there regionally and locally to suggest a way out of a mine suspected area as cheaply as possible to rule out the larger areas that are today identified as mine suspected areas. We are here from the military-related action "Glass" there in the area of our western Slavonia free area and a large number of people have returned to the cities, to the villages. People who have been engaged in different ways and in paramilitary formations that have been attacked by Croatian villages, Croatian cities, people who obviously do not have any serious war crimes and similar activities in the war or at least have not been proven to them and who live peacefully in our villages, here we know in our cities when the Flash ended, when these military formations surrendered that they were mainly chefs, logisticsists and similar military activists. I've never met anyone who was a soldier. Mostly I say they were beautifully arranged, shaved, arranged people who engaged in cooking and similar activities on the other side during the Homeland War. We haven't found any such a big restaurant and a hotel where they'd all work, but good. If so and if that is the case, the Croatian judiciary will accept it for us. But these people obviously know and have information, quality information, and are extremely valuable to us about mine suspected areas, i.e. real minefields and mine suspected areas. And if there were good will on their part, and the honesty to report, and we invite them to the units of local self-government and the CROMAC boys and all other services publicly invite them, we have meetings and local committees, with representatives of local committees where we invite them to, and this is an opportunity to repeat that we have to inform us exactly where minefields are located, that we can rule out those areas that are not really mine-suspecting in a way that is far cheaper than demining itself, so that the money that we have to spend even more in Croatia for demining, for reconnaissance we spend on something smarter, for building municipal infrastructures, schools and hospitals which is of benefit to all residents living in the Republic of Croatia today, and I think it would be a real sign of good faith here from people who were on the other side, and here by cooking and other activities are obviously not involved in some war crimes and war activities. So here is one call for Pakrac area, Lipika where there are the most mine suspected areas in our county, including for other parts of Croatia. They're welcome, let us know. There are no natural sanctions. In fact, it would really be one sign of goodwill to tell us where the minefields are, where mine suspected areas are located, so that we all get through it more cheaply in a short time to get rid of mine suspected areas throughout the Republic of Croatia. Finally, here I would also like to express as head of the unit of local self-government, and also on behalf of a large number of mayors, the mayor who cooperates with the Croatian Mine Action Centre, one satisfaction with the collaboration we have with CROMAC, their willingness to appear on the ground literally on every call from the city, the municipalities, when a mine suspicious situation occurs at a construction site, a workshop where we did not expect a mine device to appear every time we have some kind of meetings. I do not know the preparation for spatial plans, meetings with hunters, local committees to point to the danger of mines, to thank them for the education they have been doing since kindergartens, primary schools, through various brochures prepared and intended children, and also theatre performances here, which have passed throughout Croatia where children have seen the danger of mines in one way and we hope that such good cooperation will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80419	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Huška, you spoke of the need to continue demining and that land, agricultural land as well as the forest. I fully agree with you, and I can say that I am pleased with the demining surfaces in Požega-Slavon County. But I'd like to highlight these data related to Osijek-Baranja County. In fact, over a quarter of all demining operations in the Republic of Croatia were carried out in Osijek-Baranja County, of course, because it was necessary. And it is necessary to say that as in the past years, the focus of demining has been orans, mostly in the city of Osijek, along the Nemetinsko-drenski channel and the Nemetinska Bar in the Sarvas field, and along the settlements of Sarvas and Tenja in the size of over 2 and a half million square meters. 2010 During the years, orans were demined by the municipality of Antunovac Tenjski in the municipality of Antunovac, Šomorat and Kalovica in the municipalities of Ernestinovo and Darda by the canal Velika Osatina and the settlement Šodolovci in the municipality of Šodolovac, and on the border along the village of Hrastin in the municipality of Vladislavci. The demining is therefore almost 0.6 km2 of ora along the border line with the Republic of Hungary in the municipality of Draž, and as far as the forest is concerned, it must be pointed out that the Croatian forests financed the search and demining of priority forest areas and roads of nearly 2 and a half km of square in the economic units of Torjana forest, Jaguljac forest, Barčan forest in the city of Valpovo and the municipalities of Jagodnja, Petlovac and Darda. I must also mention that it is important that in 2010 the systematic demining of the municipality of Bilje, the area within Kopačko rita along the settlement Kopačevo began. So I'm really glad to demining these areas of agricultural and forest, because it's important to us also because of the economy, because of Kopački rit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80421	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80422	Well, I agree with my colleagues completely with you. We come from agricultural areas, rich areas of agricultural land, forests and, of course, after demining the settlements, edges of the settlements, road infrastructure, areas where development and construction are being maintained, the municipal infrastructure is being maintained. Especially all of us from Slavonia interested in demining agricultural farmland. Of course, forests that are one of great potentials in both eastern, western Slavonia and where we can expect, through almost demining, increased exploitation of wood mass, saving forests from disease, decay. Because forests in which the forester has not set foot for 20 years simply fail, huge quantities of forest mass are lost, and this is how demining and putting these areas, these areas outside mine suspected areas can just be achieved to stop the deforestation, to increase the exploitation of wood mass, to make our beautiful Slavonic land even more quality and even more processed. Of course, there are new incomes, and there are new jobs that are what we especially need in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80423	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also enter this debate as one of the supporters, so all these efforts we've talked about. I think it is very important to say that, therefore, the mined areas, i.e. all those we deal with and fight the universal problem, the problem at global level, the problem of course in Croatia, the problem in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, are well that all are under one new policy, the policy of banning the use of such toxic means. I think that this is also an opportunity, so to mention some elements that are not directly related to this matter, but are the result of the mining, which is why we should always re-remember the price of the Republic of Croatia's salaries as a consequence of aggression, so imagine only the victims of mines, human victims, imagine all possible damages resulting from the inability to use all those areas in the Republic of Croatia that are mined, imagine the possibility of access to the areas that we should have and we don't, imagine the damages that come as indirect damage itself in a way that both the international community and the Republic of Croatia from the budget and the international institutions and donors give great funds and we are grateful for, but we could certainly be used elsewhere and for some other purposes, which would be of course more useful than what we do now. I think this is an opportunity to mention, certainly to mention, and you and your colleague have mentioned people who are of public interest because they are doing a job of public interest, and these are our pyrotechnicians, whom we should thank from, from this place, for their contribution because they are doing what they do, we should mention and acknowledge their sacrifice, in view of and their deaths, in view of and in the end you yourself have shown the price for which they are doing this very difficult job. On this occasion, I would really ask all of us, but all the angels and saints to be with them, to be with these people, and to be with Croatia in the end, and with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to the whole world, so that there may never be another war so terriblely imposed from which we have paid a huge price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80425	State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80426	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have heard your debates in conclusion, and I would say that Croatia was not the victim of brutal aggression we today would not discuss this demining report. Mrs Adlesic said that she spent more than 4 billion kuna on these most direct demining costs through the budget. We have other indirect investments and legal costs, donations, all these assets are measured in billions of kunas. The most tragic consequence of Croatia's minement in brutal aggression is this 501 who died of death. Unfortunately, Croatia has this big problem, but the Croatian government is aware of the importance and seriousness of this problem, and it will certainly add even greater importance to it in the future and try to isolate as much resources as possible, only to say that the national mine action programme from 2009 to 2019 is planned to demining over 100 square kilometers next year and that demining will be even more intense, even more active every year. Thank you very much for the discussions on this report, I believe that you will adopt it, and it will certainly be a motive for the Croatian government to engage more seriously in this problem in order to demining Croatia as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80427	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the Report on a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted on the basis of legal authority". Let's please get involved and vote on the regulation report. The result? This report was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. There is a report before you on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2010, so I will try only to read the most basic data from this report to you. Eventually, if there's a need and an explanation. Therefore, the basic mission of humanitarian demining in 2010 was to reduce and reduce mine polluted and suspicious areas. As a result, the mine threat in the Republic of Croatia has been expressed since the Homeland War. The initial basis for drawing up the 2010 plan was established a mine suspected area of 887.7 km2, an area exclusively polluted by unexploded killings in the size of 4.3 km2 and a planned financing amounting to 317 million 864 kn, of which for humanitarian demining operations 267 million 35 kuna. The 2010 plan set out the following basic tasks: reducing the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km2, maintaining the mark of the entire mine suspected region of the Republic of Croatia, coordinating activities and education on mine dangers and assisting mine victims and 4th strengthening international cooperation. As regards the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan, the situation is as follows: the implementation of all planning activities in 2010 planned to reduce the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km2 and the total reduction of mine suspected area by type of activity was realised in the following percentages. The demining was planned to take place at 27 million and 50 thousand m2 and was realised at 27 million 660 m2 which means 102% that the percentage of the realization of this activity. The reduction operations are planned for a surface area of 10 million m2, and are realised in 11 million 454 thousand m2, which means that this anti-mining activity is realised as a percentage of 114%. From that, demining was planned with 3 million m2, and it was realized with 4 million 151 thousand m2, which is the realisation of the plan with 138.4% and general reconnaissance is planned with 7 million m2 and is realized with 7 million 303 m2, which is 104%. And general reconnaissance was planned for 30 million m2, and 30 million 844 thousand were realized, a percentage of 102%. So overall, of all planned humanitarian demining operations by demining methods of reduction and general reconnaissance was planned for 2010 for an area of 67 million 50 million 873 m2, and it was realised at 69 million 959 thousand 549 m2, which is the realization of the plan as a percentage of 104.3%. According to the county, demining and reducing mine suspected areas of general reconnaissance have been realised as follows. The most humanitarian demining jobs were carried out in Ličko-Senj County with 20 million 830 thousand m2, then Osijek-Baranja County 16 million 394 thousand m2, Karlovac County with 8 million 680 thousand m2, Vukovar-Srijem with 8 million 554 m2, Sisak-Moslavina County with 4 million 896 thousand m2 and other counties in slightly smaller areas. As for the type of operations of humanitarian demining, it is done according to the following structure. Demining operations in 2010 removed the threat of NES and NUS in the Republic of Croatia from 31 million 811 thousand m2, from which by search method 13 million 418 thousand, and by demining method 18 million 393 thousand m2. According to the 2010 humanitarian demining plan, these methods mean the search method and the demining method are exceeded by 5.9%. As for this method, means the demining method which is one of the methods of humanitarian demining, the state by county is the following. The humanitarian demining method was the most jobs done in Virovitica-Podravska County where the plan was exceeded by 171%. Then we have Požega-Slavon County where it is exceeded by 109%, Osijek-Baranja County 112%, Vukovar-Srijem County 126% and are mostly reduced by this demining method compared to the 2010 plan. As for the structure and purpose of demining surfaces I will give you a brief overview of the jobs done both by area and by county structure. In 2010, the largest share in the demining area structure with a 61% share has agricultural surfaces. Namely, agricultural areas are a priority given that their demining is achieved through multiple, not only security and humanitarian objectives but also economic objectives. As in previous years, over 80% of demining agricultural areas are oracies, followed by forest surfaces with a 30% share of scissors and debris with a share of 9%. In view of the purpose of land, the largest proportion of demining areas have the most structurally represented areas, i.e. agricultural land for which the interest in the launch of agricultural production is shown. Based on the above, in 2010 in the Republic of Croatia, the most demining agricultural areas of the first row of orans are 15.6 km2. The biggest achievements were achieved in eastern Croatia and this is the Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County where half of the total demining agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia are demined, which is understandable, since the structure of the area in these two counties is in the most part agricultural and there is certainly the biggest not only safety but also economic interest in demining the agricultural areas as soon as possible. Croatian forests continued to invest in the demining operations of first-class forest land in 2010. Thus, in 2010, the mine risk of over 1.1 km2 of priority forest land was removed within the Jagodni forest economic unit and these humanitarian demining operations are of great security interest in forests, but also economically, since large quantities of wood were placed into operation after demining, which were not used until then, and very often due to not cutting and decaying. In most mine polluted counties, security space with transport infrastructure was expanded in 2010, which is also one of the priorities. The largest volume of demining operations was done in the southern counties due to a large number of domestic and foreign tourists who use the most road infrastructure when arriving at the desired tourist destination. And because of the importance of tourism as a branch of the economy, these jobs that have been done must have extremely high and economic effects. Most of the jobs to achieve the safe and possible return of displaced and exiled inhabitants in 2010 were carried out in Sibenik-Knin County in the settlements of Donja Marina and settlements Kasići, Bodrežići, Andabaki, in the settlement of Zitnište and some other settlements from that county, since the problem of mine suspected spaces around the settlement is precisely the most present and most pronounced in Sibenik-Knin County, i.e. in Dalmatia Zagor. In 2010, operations continued to demining the area within the Nature Park "Velebit" areas of importance for mountain tourism. Other demining areas, given their purpose, highlight the demining of forests with a very high degree of fire threat from the Bay of Bistrin in the municipality of Dubrovnik coast and border belt with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro in the municipality of Konavle in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. In the cities of Skradin and Sibenik, demining areas of almost 0.2 square kilometres of importance for the implementation of fire protection was carried out. The method of exclusion from mine suspected areas also yielded results by implementing general reconnaissance. Compared to mine demining operations carried out by authorised legal entities and reconnaissance teams of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, they systematically updated mine suspected areas in 2010 as well as additional reconnaissances necessary for the design of idea projects, search and demining. In addition to these operations throughout the year, 14 general tests have been carried out to update the mine suspected area following demining operations carried out in order to reduce. We excluded the method of general reconnaissance from the mine suspected area of significant area most in Ličko-Senj County in the size of 16 million 485000 square meters, then Osijek-Baranja County in size of 8 million 129000 square meters, the Carlovakia County 6 million 667000 square meters, Vukovar-Srijem County 3 million 658000 square meters. As regards the method of reduction of mine suspected areas in 2010. In the year of reduction, which consists of a demining and general reconnaissance method, it is planned to reduce the mine suspected area by 10 million square meters from the planned area of 3 million square meters planned to deminate to reduction, and 7 million square meters to rule out general reconnaissance by demining operations carried out in order to reduce. Those plans have been implemented. A total of 7 and 10 million square meters, respectively, were realized by 11 million 454000 square meters. Most in Osijek-Baranja County, 2 million 616000 square meters. Then, Vukovar-Srijemska 2 million 300000, Brod-Posavina County million 737000 and other counties in slightly smaller areas. As for demining companies in humanitarian demining operations, 28 companies were engaged with a variety of employees, with different mechanisms. Both according to this and the conditions reached in the competition are also different areas that individual companies demined. As regards the 2010 financing, the financial plan for 2010 was 267 million kuna, the highest in the state budget of 180 million 595000. Then the state budget participates in the IBRD loan of 9 million kuna, the legal person investors 44 million 500 000 and donations 32 million 940 thousand. The plan was realised as a percentage of 107% by the state budget being realised as a percentage of 100.5%, the legal person investors as a percentage of 148.8%. The donations failed and were realised in the amount of 85% of the planned funds. But overall, 107 were secured and 107.5% spent compared to the 2010 plan. As regards the financing of legal persons, investors in humanitarian demining operations provided and spent Croatian forests that agreed and realised 56 million 159,000 kuna, which is 140.4% compared to the plan. Then by the amount of funds, the other investor is Croatia's 6 million 602000 water, which is the implementation of the 146% plan. Croatian highways with a million 449000 kuna, the Waterway Agency 100 thousand kuna and several other legal entities with amounts less than one million kuna. But the realisation of planned funds from the position of legal persons has been realised overall of 148.8%. In 2010, demining operations financed by donors amounting to €28 million and €85.6% of planned funds compared to 2009. A year. The amount of demining donations has been reduced by 36%. The largest donor in 2010 was the Kingdom of Norway with 32% share in total donations. The funds were placed through the NGO Norway National Assistance Mine Action Programme in the Republic of Croatia supported by the Kingdom of Norway ended in 2010. The US government participated in total donations of over 26%. US Government funds are planned through the International Mine Action and Assistance Foundation for Mine Victims from the Republic of Slovenia. And we have a number of other donors who donated funds to the total amount like I said 28 million 188,000. The World Bank loan, the World Bank loan for the social and economic recovery project of the area of special state care and funds secured by the redistribution within the loan items totalling 8 and a half million euros was fully spent in 2010. A year. Average demining price. The average price of all demining transactions in 2010 was 7.76 kuna per metre square metre without VAT, which is 5.1% lower than the average prices achieved in 2009. In addition to these demining operations, direct demining activities were also done to mark the mine suspected area across all counties and areas where there is doubt that the area was polluted, there were jobs to restore those tags where they were missing, stolen, destroyed or otherwise removed, so that it was a regular activity which could also be seen in which quantities and in which counties this marking activity was done. And perhaps also the most important data, during 2010, there were three mine incidents and three mine accidents. In mine incidents, two pyrotechnics were killed and one suffered minor bodily injuries. In mine accidents, a civilian was killed, one suffered severe bodily injuries, and two sustained minor injuries, no injuries in two accidents. These are the tragic consequences of the pollution of certain areas of mines of the Republic of Croatia and therefore this business of demining is very important to continue to intensify it to clear Croatia from mines and citizens are safe throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to these direct jobs of humanitarian demining, all participants, above all the Croatian Mine Action Centre, have worked through a number of other activities that are indirectly important for the safety of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, primarily through individual projects to help victims of mines, and this has indeed been done through more activities, more actions and a lot of participants, and has also strengthened international cooperation on these humanitarian demining operations, and certainly the Croatian model of humanitarian demining has been recognized in the world as a quality, efficient, intensive cooperation, there is a lot of questions from countries that have problems with mine pollution, and there is certainly a Croatian Mine Action Centre that can make a significant breakthrough on the international market and ensure and export of knowledge and Croatian companies engaged in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In short, it was a report on the most important activities and the most important indicators of the demining that took place in 2010 in the Republic of Croatia, it is virtually visible that in all segments the plan was realised with 100, and in some segments more than 100%, and that Croatia is safer for these 67 square kilometers and we hope that next year, with sufficient resources, another significant majority of Croatia will be cleared from mines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80431	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80432	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored State Secretary, representative of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Here is a mine problem from this State Secretary's report we see that the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia still exists to a significant extent, although since the end of the Homeland War it has been for a long time still represents both economic and security, but also the environmental problem and obstacle to normal life and development in many areas of the Republic of Croatia. Here we see from the report that on 1 January 2010, mine suspected space was found in the Republic of Croatia at 887.7 km square and that 4.3 km square area was exclusively contaminated by unexploded deadly means. The planned and secured financial resources amounting to HRK 317.9 million, of which 267 million for demining operations, and 84% of the funds go directly to demining. And in the mine environment of colleagues and colleagues lived a little less than 800,000 inhabitants, meaning almost a fifth in the 12 Croatian counties and a hundred units of local self-government. Out of the total mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia, almost two-thirds consist of forests and agricultural areas, and 16 thousand and 75 labels warned of danger. The victims deserve really special attention, so I'll say that since '91. By the end of 2010, a thousand 322 mine incidents killed a thousand 935 people, of which more than 500 people were fatal, and with severe physical injuries almost 1,000 and 100, and 300 people with minor physical injuries. A total of 69 children, of whom 12 deaths, mean between the ages of 18 years, 36 seriously injured, were killed 16 easier. Only since the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre 22 victims were under 18 years old and 5 were killed. They suffered, except for civilians and pyrotechnics, so from 1998 they were 62, and 25 died, or 26 were killed. All of them were killed cleaning up the land of mines, so others wouldn't get hurt. And beyond mine suspected space since '91. 65 children were killed in the year, mainly by unexploded means of murder. But let's go back to the report. The goal was, the tasks of the plan were therefore to remove mine danger from the area of 67.1 km square, and to further maintain the meaning of the marking of the entire mine suspected space, to coordinate education activities and to help mine victims, but also to strengthen international co-operation. What's made of it and how much? Here we go. So, through 183 search and demining projects, a mine threat has been removed from the 27.7km area, and in order to reduce through 17 projects, a mine threat has been removed from the surface of 4.2 kilometers. The general reconnaissance that was done to update mine suspected space production project documentation has reduced mine suspected space by an additional 38.1 km. So the total mine suspected space was reduced by 69.9km, and it was 815.3km at the end of 2010. So the plan has been achieved, as we heard from the secretary of state 2% more than planned. All that time, a mark was maintained for 15 thousand 666 mine-hazard markings and 409 tags that indicate the danger of NUS and which represent the basic element of the information system. The Secretary of State is talking about areas by county and I will only point to the structure of the explored and demining area so that we see that the agricultural areas were the subject of interest, or the first priority of this demining plan, had a significant share in demining over 60%, and over 50% of these surfaces were oracies totaling 15.5 km from total demining areas. The forests cost 2.1% and here it is good that the forests participate in the financing of the highest quality forest land or forest land in the first row. 12% in the demining area structure is the demining of an extended security space along transport infrastructure, so in the counties that have a large number of tourist arrivals, so in Zadar County, the wider belts are demined, so along the road Posedarje, Novigrad, Poličnik, according to Pakostane, all the way to the hinterland of St. Filip and Jakova, Novigrad, Podgradina, but also in Sibenik Drniš, Roški slap, Hrvace, Otokacac and Perusic. The military economic facilities mean 2.6% of them and Croatia's waters have invested in quality defence against floods in the area of Brod-Posavina and Karlova County. The gardens, fortunately, accounted for 4% of cleaned spaces, which means that somewhere near the end of the gardens, protected areas accounted for 1.6% and other projects 2%, including business zones in Zemunik and Glina and fire-fighting belts are also in those other areas. We see from the report that a large percentage of the areas worked out to refer to priorities related to socioeconomic development means over 70% of the total area is related to socioeconomic development, 27% to safety and environmental priorities 2.8%. The report also shows that the capacities involved in demining in the past year are really significant that it is 27 commercial companies, one NGO but that it is 623 pyrotechnicians, 64 machines and 24 mine detection dogs. These capacities that we see are significant are really potential and there is room for better use. As regards expert supervision in the course of demining operations, 12 pyrotechnic supervisors and 27 pyrotechnic overseers who indeed have a responsible job took part in 926 expert controls during the demining of the last year. Here, I would like to point out here that 183 downloads of search and demining areas were carried out in 2010, which is good, it is a good practice that continues, it is a tradition of handing out certificates to local and regional self-government units to know that they can clearly plan better areas that will be demined in the future. We at the HDZ Club hold that we really need to strengthen the quality of work because the number of repetitive work reports, although there were only 7 of them in the past year, points to seriousness, but the number of funds found indicates that we really need to give one particular importance to monitoring the quality of the work, means both during demining and after demining. As for the financing in 2010 was with the most secured funds from the state budget and it increased 66%, the legal entities were 23%, it was also increased participation of legal persons and these were Croatian forests and Croatian waters, however, what concerns it that donations fell from 14 to 10, the World Bank loan was finally used in the past year he also dragged a little more than he should have. Here, from this place I would like to thank everyone who helps demining the premises of the Republic of Croatia, but also Zadar County, means the counties with the most injured in the Republic of Croatia, especially thanks to the Kingdom of Norway, because Norway's national aid has invested in the demining of Croatia 110 million kuna and not only that, but it has been in the Zadar County where they were mostly situated to secure the existence for 40 years that have worked this entire period for 10 years and secured themselves through demining and its existence. As far as the price is concerned, we've heard that the price is slightly lower by 5.1% in the past year and it is 7.76 kuna per meter squared, I think it's simply that although the market is, it shouldn't really go below these prices because then it could be lost to quality. Although for many years there was a trend in the reduction of mine victims in 2009 the same number of accidents as in 2008 in 6 mine incidents killed 7 of them three pyrotechnicians, but in 2010, colleagues and colleagues continued to regret this trend. In six mine incidents and accidents, seven of them were killed by two pyrotechnics. And the data just mentioned confirm that the mine problem is a serious problem in the Republic of Croatia and that pyrotechnicians and civilians still suffer. I will remind you today that from 1991 until the end of 2010, 199 pyrotechnics were killed in their work, mortally 59, only colleagues and colleagues of the year 2006 were without the loss of pyrotechnics and the last loss was last week, so here was the site a week ago a mineworker was killed in the mine field, and this is when his family died as well as those who died in mine fields before him. Here, and from this place on behalf of the HDZ Club I want to thank all domestic and foreign donors who have so far helped mine victims in any way, and indeed there have been many donors and recently last week we had an opportunity, the American Chamber means with a manifestation of a safe step is being collected both for demining and for the help of mine victims. I would also like to commend the production of a brochure containing all the laws and regulations governing the rights of victims of mines and their families, the CROMAC web-portal, which provides insight into the mine situation but we also appreciate the launch of a single database on mine victims as well as the development of an action plan to help people killed by mine explosives and NUS from 2010 to 2014. First of all, it means improving the quality of life of the victims, and I will remind you of them over a thousand 300 and families of the victims and killed, but also meeting the obligations to both Ottawa and the Convention on Casual Shooting. As regards international cooperation, the shift has been achieved and I want to highlight here concrete activities such as the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on Mine Action between the State Secretariat for Mine Action and Development of the Northwest Coast and the Croatian Mine Action Centre for the visit of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Egypt. We hold at the HDZ Club that all the preconditions for more significant promotion and commercialisation of exceptional quality models of demining and financing, exports of knowledge, but also exports of equipment and demining machines that we already have. We also expect the conclusion of negotiations and the start of the work of our companies abroad. The HDZ Club supports the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan here with specific suggestions, that the identification of mine suspected space is carried out as responsible, more professional and quality as it is precisely the basis on which all demining plans of local and regional self-government units are based, and this depends on the security of the citizens of the efficiency of demining but also the justification of the spending of state resources as well as donations. In order to ensure the safety of all citizens, almost a fifth of the population should continue with the maintenance of mine threat tags, and those who do not respect them should be invited not to do so. There is also room for a raised percentage of donations both domestic and foreign, and we expect you to implement the strategy or new National Mine Action Programme by 2019, which the Parliament brought together with the county coordinators and in agreement with the units of the regional and local self-government, in accordance with the strategic specifics. In front of the pyrotechnics, about 800km2 of mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia. Here's exactly how many I'm in '96. when I started demining the area of Zadar County only. For all those who do not see really as much as Croatia has now had Zadar County in '96. A year. So far, 3.4 billion kuna has been spent on demining the Republic of Croatia, 57% of the state budget, with loans and donations left. And I'm going to remind you here today that the estimated war damage related to demining in the Republic of Croatia amounted to $13.5 billion, and out of that 1.8 billion in Zadar County alone. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80433	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80434	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The HSS representative club will support the 2010 Implementation Report on the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources. Overall, looking at the mine action in 2010 is in line with the humanitarian demining plan and the basic tasks of the 2010 plan, it is in realisation of the implementation of the best years so far. Compared to 2009, the increase was 4.5 km2 despite extremely unfavourable weather conditions in several times when the workshops were still due to the blue and wet terrain but also due to the circumstances of the company's complaints in the public procurement process, which blocked some competitions for months. In addition, the fact that the plan was transferred by 5.9% was returned to the community by demining and searching in the area of 31.8 km2 which is the result of the work of Croatian companies. Regular audit activities in establishing a clear and precise border of mine suspected polygons through the criteria of certain standard operational procedures, mine suspected space was reduced by a general reconnaissance of 38.1 km2 resulting from regular activities of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. At the end of the community, 69.9 km2 was returned to use. We can also consider the realization of demining with a share of 61% of the agricultural areas of the first row, which we particularly welcome in the HSS club. The year 2010 as well as the previous one with the smallest number of mine incidents so far. However, we must say that there have been six incidents involving seven victims, four civilians and three pyrotechnics and their families, and this occasion we express our sincere condolences. Respecting the fact that mine suspected space is distributed in 12 Croatian counties and 102 cities and municipalities, we can argue that all programmes of education of many associations and institutions in which the role of CROMAC is co-ordinated have contributed to the reduction of mine incidents. It should also be pointed out that the interactive relationship with a large number of subjects in the general survey process has also contributed to this, as well as to the particular concern about the setting of mine risk codes that are more than 16 thousand in the entire Republic of Croatia and their continuing renewal. The constant warning for keeping tags, requests not to alienate, seems to be all that citizens are responsible and respect the rights of others. The media certainly contributed to this, whether they recognized the importance of warning and writing about this issue, whether in interaction with CROMAC in media campaigns during the year. We also consider the HSS club positive by providing information to a large number of users. The situation of mine danger markings is one of the fundamental elements of the mining information system shown in the maps of the minimality provided by state administration bodies, units of local and regional self-government, police administrations and other legal and physical persons, and the number of almost a thousand maps of the minimumity of A0 format, several thousand different maps for specific locations, as well as a map of exclusions and inclusions in mine suspected space. 2010 also marks the great use of a series of CROMAC portals of a unique web application available to all users in the country and the world, on which it is possible to see an up-to-date state of mine suspected space and its mark-up. The application was used in 2010 by tens of thousands of people, including tourists who were coming. And, of course, because of the tourist season and tourist season, we hope that those last mine suspected surfaces will be removed in areas where many citizens and tourists live. The withdrawal of the World Bank loan No. The 7283 HR produced good results and in 2010 allowed the demining of the agricultural land of the first row on the rounded surfaces and it was fully withdrawn and executed. A new loan if it could be realised would resolve the issue of valuable agricultural land in eastern Slavonia. All priorities of the public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia for which financial resources are provided have been resolved within the deadlines set. It is important to highlight the extremely high engagement and good co-operation with the Croatian forests and their increase in funding in 2010 and also with Croatian waters. In the area of international cooperation, good shifts have been made, primarily through the action of clusters in humanitarian demining involving Croatian companies CROMAC, Centre for Testing, Development and Training. The aim is to include Croatian knowledge in helping the wider anti-mining community, but also to provide economic cooperation with different countries affected by mine problems. In each debate, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club points out, and we also point out in this debate, that it is important to provide greater financial resources, mainly in the context of the pre-accession and structural funds of the European Union in which demining would be included in the development programmes for which demining is, of course, a prerequisite. It is also important to highlight this because of the obligation to extend the deadlines related to the Ottawa Convention, but above all for security and economic reasons, as well as environmental protection. Unfortunately, finances are the cause and dissatisfaction, and sometimes a union protest and employers' association. We don't think it would be good to interrupt demining jobs, but we don't think it would be good for companies that invested more than 40 million euros in machinery and equipment without talking about pyrotechnics who are indeed a special population of people who expose their lives to keep Croatia free from mines. It may also be important to remind again here that these reports that we are discussing and the plans that we bring about demining are reports that remind us very much of a period that has been extremely difficult for the Republic of Croatia, at the time of the Homeland War which was a defensive war, but in which the enemy except for destroying many human lives, destroyed many homes, many houses, really reverse our economy and economic development, left many mines that presently pose danger. This should be pointed out at a time when Croatia celebrates 20 years of its independence, that it has indeed suffered gravely in the Homeland War, that these consequences are still felt today and that these activities carried out by both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Mine Action Centre are important activities that contribute both to the security of the state and economic stability, but also to further development in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. And therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, as always so far, gives full support to these activities and supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80435	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Goran Heffer is the first. There's no Mr. Goran Heffer. Then she's Mrs. Mirela Holly. There's no Madam Representative. Then it's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go. Where's Branko Box? He's gone. He's losing his right. Then Mr. Daniel Srb. He's gone. Then it's Mr. Jerko Roshin. There's no Jerka either. This is already a set of five. Then it's Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80436	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We heard this report. This report shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia made the right decision in 1998 to systematically address the issue of mine action by setting up CROMAC, but by ensuring permanent and stable sources of funding primarily through the state budget in several World Bank loans. In 2010, according to the basic tasks of the plan, the best years so far in the realization of demining surfaces given for use by end-users. It is important to say that 26.7% of demining areas refer to a safety priority of 70.5% of socioeconomic development in which agricultural land is represented by almost 60%. It has been done a lot to demining border belts and other tourist destinations, mostly nature parks and national parks. These results could be achieved through stable sources of funding in the state budget, which as always is the cornerstone of demining in the Republic of Croatia and in 2010 participated with 66%. The World Bank's loan should certainly be added to that. The funds of public enterprises amounting to 23%, while only 85% of these funds are waste on Croatian forests. Over the years, donation funds have dropped, and in 2010 they participated with 10%, which is not negligible. The demining and search was realized by 31.8 km2 which is the result of the work of Croatian companies. It is important to say that CROMAC activity within its core activities is excluded from mine suspected space 38.1 km2 and that all remaining space is marked and marked with more than 16000 mine risk codes. There was no increase in injury compared to 2009 which confirms that the marking of mine suspected areas and enhanced education programmes affected this. The inclusion of CROMACs and other organizations whose member and founder of mine action at world level is very positive and contributes to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in the world, but also provides the possibility of opening our companies and exporting and selling knowledge and technology, as well as different equipment. A very favourable year and good results, however, do not comply with the national mine action programme won by the Croatian Parliament. We know that the capacities of Croatian companies provide significant results. It is therefore necessary to provide more financial resources, ensure full employment of Croatian companies and monitor the national programme. The state budget should continue to be the basis for safe and effective demining, but the funds should be sought primarily in the European Union funds, in many Croatian companies looking for greater sensitivity and socially responsible behaviour and funding for the Republic of Croatia and priority areas of demining. I'll say something about the Vukovar-Srijem County I come from. If we had the priorities of the county for 2010, we had been removing mine risk with about 3.1 km2 orans in the area of the towns of Vinkovci, Vukovar and the municipalities of Markusica, Nuštar, Stari Jankovci, Tordinci, Trpinja and Vrbanja which was carried out in 2010. From this realization, it is necessary to highlight the overall mine risk removed from the Hungarians in the municipality of Tordinca from the areas of the northeastern and eastern and southeastern towns of Vinkovac as well as cities in the town of Vukovar. In 2010, a mine threat was completely removed from the Gjergalj forest in the town of Vukovar, allowing companies in the Croatian forest management, and the residents of the city to re-use the city's excursion. The US government's donation completely removed mine threat from the Croatian-Bosnian-Serbian-Serbian trimming along the Sava River in the Drenoves municipality thus enabling the State Geodetic Authority to deal with state border markings. The same donor financed the demining of a border company along the Sava River and Drenovci municipality with the aim of enabling the border police to monitor the state border. Croatian forests invested in demining forest areas within economic units in 2010... in the municipality of Tordinca, Vrapčane in the town of Vinkovci and Dubrava in the town of Vukovar in the size of 2.5% larger than planned at the beginning of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The execution of these transactions in the size of over 1.3 km square as well as the demining of the route of the Vinkovar and Vukovar bypasses financed by the Croatian Road company had the greatest impact on the transfer of the plan 2009. Vukovar-Srijem County for almost 27%. Other operations carried out highlight the demining of the area needed to build wastewater purifiers in the municipality of Privlak, as well as the road belt of the state road D-55 Vinkovci-Vukovar. Shares from the settlement Nuštar in the municipality of Nuštar to the settlement of Bršadin and the municipality of Trpinja. It is evident here that the Croatian government is making efforts to lose mines as soon as possible and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have one security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80437	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here it is, this report, how important it is. It is also important that we who live in areas that are not mined may not understand what it means when they release children in their environment, and not far from that is a minefield. We also heard about the accidents in which the children were killed in these minefields. We've heard of adults, of course. There are no funds that can return and charge for human life. This report is therefore very important, and it is important that every investment in demining is in reality. Baseline for drawing up the 2010 plan A mine suspected area of 887.7 km2. The area exclusively polluted by unexploded means of murder of 4,3 km2 and the planned financing amounting to 317 million 864,790 kn, out of which 267 million 035000 kuna has been allocated for humanitarian demining operations. In 2010 it was planned. The following basic tasks were set. Reduction of the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km. Maintaining, marking the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia, coordinating activities and education on mine dangers and helping mine victims and strengthening international cooperation. The implementation of all planning activities in 2010 planned to reduce the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia by 67.1 km2. From the presentation of colleague Marinovic, we heard that there were still 800 square kilometers of mine-cleaning areas left. Here's the area that counterpart Zadar had in the area of this cleanup action. Business demining through 183 idea projects of demining search was removed mine danger from the 27,666 million 554 square meters. What I would like to say more is what Mr. Buconjic said. 102 percent were executed. In the structure of the demining area, demining areas certainly take over the most important areas are agricultural areas and they have 61.0% of agricultural areas. And as in previous years, over 80% of demining agricultural areas have been followed by forest surfaces with a 30% share, and maquis and karsts with a share of 9.0%. In view of the land’s purpose, the majority of the demining areas have the most structurally represented areas, i.e. agricultural land for which the interest in the launch of agricultural production is shown. And it is very important to say that this is a priority for agricultural land. Based on the most demining agricultural areas mentioned in 2010 and the first order of orans in the size of 15.6 km squares, the largest achievements were achieved in Eastern Croatia in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County where half of the demining agricultural areas of the first row in the Republic of Croatia for 2010 were demined. What I'd still say is minefield markings. They're placed somewhere in 16, more than 16000 of these tags are there. We have recently looked at a show in a television program problem of removal, i.e. people who remove these markings that have been placed and marked that there is a minefield here and perhaps it is good to appeal through such discussions that it is not removed, because it is unusually important that residents who are there and children, unfortunately, have already learned and know what it means to watch mines, but also tourists who come to be more careful and know that some areas, that they can't stop, or that they can't go to the woods or to some areas. I'll say a few words about this, too, that in 2010, the demining business continued within the parks of nature, and that is Velebit, and that is the areas of importance for mountain tourism. Thus, the demining area along the mountainous home of Visocica in the town of Gospić, Ličko-Senjska County and the individual location within the nature park in the municipality of Starigrad Paklenica, in Zadar County, the resources from the state budget have been financed by demining the area along the settlement Kopačevo, within the nature park Kopački rit, essential for better implementation of fire protection, bird observation and prevention of bird flu in the municipality of Bilje in Osijek-Baranja County. In 2010, it was completely removed mine danger from the area along the settlement Kuselj within the Plitvice Lake National Park, in the Municipality of Saborska, in the county of Karlova County. Mine danger has also been removed from the island of Stepinac and Debelog Rata near Prokljansko Lake in the town of Skradin, in Sibenik-Knin County, the area of the future tourist zone Prokljan in the city of Skradin in Sibenik-Knin County, the future tourist complex in the municipality of Dubrovnik coast in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, as well as the area along... lake in the municipality of Croatia in Split-Dalmatia County. [[You don't understand.]] In Požega-Slavon County, the Pag city field, forest, calvary was demined. Of course, there are other areas in the function of tourism and tourist centres, but not to list them now is a good look at it in this report. Of course, everything that seems to require sensitivity first, and second and most important, this is funding, is implemented through the state budget, then legal persons and bodies of the state administration, i.e. investors, loans from the World Bank and donors. Overall, from the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre until 31.12.2010, it has been invested in demining 3.4 billion kuna. The state budget participates 57% in total demining funds with a total of 1.9 billion kuna. In 2010 as well as previous years, the biggest source of funding for demining operations was the state budget, which participated with 66%, legal persons participated in investing demining with 23%, of which the company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. It's 70 percent off. The donations totalled 10%, while the World Bank's loan with a social and economic recovery project of special state care participated with 1%. I would like to say what is the importance of removing mines from forest and forest areas, especially from fire roads, because here we see in the course of tourist seasons, so here we are and now very often we have fires, and when the area and forest roads are under mines we know what is even more dangerous for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80439	Thank you. One replica, Ms. Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80440	Ma, here's a colleague you talked about about tourist and safety of tourist destinations, so I want to get out of there messages somehow that tourist destinations are clean, communications to tourist destinations are clean, what's not clean it is marked, it's extremely well placed, but what we really need to do is that many tourist attractions and interesting destinations need to be cleaned from mines, and that's what we really need. We also have a big shift in the area of Velebit, Velebit Nature Park and the national park where VIP.net has been included, meaning with every year that any donation means VIP.net but also the Principality of Monaco, there is room one for further quality projects and for invitation donors to join in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80441	Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm actually going to pick up where my colleagues left off, maybe some of that data to point out one more time, because I think it's important to warn the public that the danger of mines still exists. Up to now, 502 people have been killed in Croatia, about 2,000 people are seriously injured, and the deadline for mine action under the Ottawa Convention is 2019. I will put a breath of pessimism into the debate, and that is the deadline set in 2019. I believe that the deadline is optimistic, that it may be unrealistic, precisely because of the fact that the state budget is still the one that is most burdened with demining items. So more than 60% of the funds, almost to 70 go directly from the state budget. I don't know any country that stands out as much for mine cleaning as Croatia does, while up to 15% between 12 and 13, there is a percentage of direct donations. It is clear that the donations over the past few years have been in decline or stagnation completely logically due to the economic crisis, but I must say without pollemising whether it is a recovery or a sensitivity that these donations are on the rise as you mentioned earlier, especially related to national parks and tourist destinations. If I remind myself that Croatia has so far allocated more than 4 billion kuna directly from the budget, without the budget of public enterprises, if we know that this is less than we need to clean up by 2019, then it will be perfectly clear why I question such a deadline, but not because I think that we have made major failures somewhere, but to encourage those who can help us to respect that deadline. What we could have done, at least I'm so sure. First of all, by amending the legislation, I will only remind myself of one law that has been amended this year, which can significantly contribute to reducing the amount of mine suspected space, which is the Agricultural Land Act. In order for economic operators to show their interest, it may be their most attractive agricultural land, because it is a land that has been untreated for 20 years, so ideal for organic production. New amendments to the law allow longer concessions, but in order to be completely transparent, and to reduce abuses or hope to completely eliminate them, a deadline has been set in which the land must be demined. By 2019, however, if we succeed, it is necessary to keep working on the education and local population that lives next to mine space. If you ride here only to Petrina, then for an hour you will encounter children and people living next to minefields. So this is the situation in Sisak-Moslavina, Osijek-Baranja, Lika-Senjska, three of the most polluted not to count the other counties in which the problem is slightly smaller, it is necessary to constantly work on education and the population but also special target groups such as hunters and especially pyrotechnicists. In fact, all these years, there has been a certain routine of people who live alongside these fields and those who work on these jobs, and the routine in every job is dangerous and in this business, especially, where they can really take their lives, and that is why education is necessary and what I am happy about is that economic operators appear with their interests to strengthen funding on education programmes. Not only the education of the population and certain counties but also the education of their employees working in such jobs, I try to avoid advertising by any of these companies that do such jobs. It may be necessary to say something that the CROMAC is talking about, and this is the fact that the Croatian demining model, you probably don't want to boast on its own, one of the best not in Europe but the best in the world, and not according to the estimates they speak themselves, but according to the estimates of the Geneva International Institute, which our demining model offers all over the world and our experts, it is indeed the pyrotechnicians who will one day be a great export product and I think we should talk about it, and I sincerely hope that the damage that happened this year if it is related to the dumping prices that occurred in the competition, and in particular some other institutions. Because prices happen to drop about 3.4 kunas at a price that's cheaper than cutting grass. And it's a very dangerous data that he's brought in a lot, it seems to me a lot of unrest and I believe that the competent institutions have had a lot of fun with that information. I will repeat just something that my colleagues have mentioned that it would be perfectly clear, so regardless of the 16 thousand tables that the truth occasionally disappears are stolen because of this can cause uncertainty, we are a country that is completely safe if the labels are respected, because CROMAC has a legal obligation, I don't know any country that has such obligation, regular board tours and renewals of those boards, and stealing such tables is a criminal offense. And it's important to warn those who look either for these or those reasons attracted, that besides endangering other people's lives, they can be adequately sanctioned. So, we are absolutely safe tourist in the part where tourists move, economically and on the roads, and I must say that a colleague mentioned Velebit earlier, it is also about some other national parks, which will soon be available to tourists who have so far been unable to go, so support this report and I hope that the donation item will increase and I wish that one day the reduction of the state budget item will be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80443	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General, the center's representative. I will tell this presentation about my friends, people who are pyrotechnics who make a solid circle today, most of them are now developed defenders from the Homeland War and around these areas, or prices. He says that the price of $9.5 per square was one square metre per square metre in 2010, so I wonder if thousands of hikers would go into some kind of forest and on some bush of several squares or one acacia healing saw 10 kunas, probably 99% of them would all turn their backs no one would take those 10 kunas and let alone enter the minefield. So the funds that have been collected by donations from persons or budgets have been spent on these 67 square kilometers, which has been reduced from 31 per cent to 815 km square square miles of surface area that we still need to clear over the next 7.8 years and I think that deadline should be reduced as soon as possible because we see people losing their lives every year as a pyrotechnician or those who are free to enter those funds. I will repeat it once again and I think it should be repeated over and over again, not to give up on how many people died and how many incidents in the 91st year of the war, the data say that it was 1322 incidents, it was certainly more because part of those that happened in the fighting sectors were not even reported and said that 1935 people were certainly killed by this devil called mines, now a far greater number of people in the Republic of Croatia, and died, so that's the data we have, about 501 persons, I'm sure there's a far greater number of those people who have died. As the center has functioned since 98, we have indications that 226 incidents were, that 305 were killed that 113 people were killed, physically damaged 125,... That 25 pyrotechnics died, 22 children were killed, five children died. [[The speaker is off, he doesn't understand.]] Why do I repeat this part, reading all the tables in this report, we can see that by the end of 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave 57% or almost 2 billion kuna from the budget, and everything else went to a billion and 400 million. So then we can see in 2010 that our companies that are privatised are doing well today, that they were stingy and their administrations when it comes to 2010 and before that for demining, can only list a few examples of large banks’ advertising in front of the very diary that are going on TV shows, that they gave or part of the money that they gave to demining would certainly be less people, certainly less surfaces would be and certainly the foreigners passing through those areas that were affected by the war, when they see the board "Watch out, mines", that their blood is being followed. They didn't learn that because we were at war and today we live in these areas. But when we take one Post office bank, one HEP, one JANAF, a Zagreb Holding company that's been handing out for years, and with a hat there's nothing he hasn't given, I don't see it in 2010. At least I don't see it. Podravka, about the tobacco industry that we don't talk about or about our brewers who advertise "Karlovack, social network" or "Zuja is the law" I think it would be a far greater law and a better social network to take part in these funds yes, that it doesn't fall square to 3.5 or 4 kuna for a pyrotechnician who enters a single square with the possibility of being killed, to remain disabled, or to have another injured colleague who is next to him, not to fall below 10 kuna. And this is embarrassing and certain that we do not talk about T-com that takes so much money from all of us that they are not able to single out one million, one million and a half kuna for this part to clean up before 2019, that it is 2015, 2016, and that we are no longer affected by pyrotechnics, so that we do not suffer civilians, our citizens, and that our pyrotechnicians unfortunately mean moving beyond the borders to that country where the war is over or still continues today. Here's my support report anyway, but I had to say this part because I think it's quite a bit of money for this big surface area that's still uncleaned, and not to mention that it's too little money for those people who clean up these mines, and I'm sure no one would have taken 10 kunas from a bush that's uncleaned, let alone that there's no 10 kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-21-0.u80445	We move on to the 2010 report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2010. Let's please get involved and vote on the report. This report was adopted unanimously by 77 votes. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue the 24th session with agenda, that is, the agenda item we announced on Friday, which is - The Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport Project" in Luc Ploče, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Mario Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
