ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68011	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2011, the 300th anniversary of the birth of Croatian physicists, mathematicians, astronomers, geodetics, engineers, poets, philosophers and diplomat Ruđer Boskovic is finished. Ruđer Boskovic is among the world's most prominent scientists of his time. His scientific action in the field of mathematics, physics, astronomy, geodesy but also philosophy greatly influenced the development of science in the 18th and 19th centuries. Given the unquestionable value and meaning of Ruđer Bošković in Croatia and the world, and given the values and achievements achieved in many fields of our activities, we propose to the Croatian Parliament that in 2011, Ruđer Boskovic is named in the Republic of Croatia. It is also proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Parliament be the sponsors of all events that will mark Ruđer Boskovic's year, while the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is in charge of operational implementation of the programme, as well as the Croatian Academy of Engineering. At the initiative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Croatian Academy of Engineering has already developed a program to mark the 300th anniversary of Ruđer Bošković's birth. The proposed programme is very complex and includes a large number of subjects and events throughout 2011. To finally establish the programme of marking the year Ruđer Boskovic, and its preparation and implementation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish an organisational committee to appoint representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Culture, and representatives of scientific and cultural organisations and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68012	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68013	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at its session, held on 3nd session of 2nd February of this year, discussed the proposal for a decision to declare the year 2011 of Ruđer Boskovic in the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening statement was submitted by the applicant's representative. Since three hundredths of the anniversary of the birth of the great Croatian scientist Ruđer Boskovic in May of this year is the purpose of the proposal to be proudly marked by the 2011 declaration of the year Ruđer Boskovic, and to organise a national programme in which all events will be sponsored by the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to repeat what Mrs. Secretary of State already said. Given the unquestionable value and significance of Ruđer Boskovic's person in Croatia and the world, and given the value and achievements achieved in many fields of his work in mathematics, physics, astronomy, optics, archaeology, philosophy, poetry and diplomacy, the committee decided unanimously without discussion to propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the 2011 declaration of Ruđer Boskovic in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68014	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68015	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would shed light on this proposal on one particular aspect, perhaps on one particular aspect, which is the fact that Ruđer Boskovic has contributed to the promotion of Dubrovnik and the Republic of Croatia by contributing to many sciences for 300 years. On the basis of his numerous scientific contributions until the end of the 18th century, many scientific branches are developing today. I'm not going to repeat those scientific branches. Madam Secretary of State listed them. However, I will mention that Boskovic had the highest quality education that was possible at that time for the Collegium Romanum, the Roman College. That's where he studied philosophy, theology. He taught grammar, and particularly important in many fundamental issues in science, he opened a critical approach. His critical approach is equally related to some of his views, such as the geocentric system. But at the same time, he was critical of some of the neoliberal tendencies that occur at that time when enlightenment also occurs. With its theory of natural science published in 1758 in Vienna and '63. in Venice acquired world fame. And thanks to it can be considered one of the beginners and visionaries of modern science. What is particularly important to us at this time is the fact that Ruđer Boskovic is not just a historical value. The great Werner Heisenberg for Boskovic says in his theory of philosophy of naturalis there are many ideas that have only in modern physics for the past 50 years come entirely to terms. Nobel Prize winner Leon Lederman describes Boskovic as a Dalmatian prophet. So, his thoughts, ideas meet in theories and concepts of modern science. So his thought is I repeat not only the historical relevant but also the current one. In particular, it may be interesting to mention that Ruđer Boskovic, who devoted most of his work to physics and exact sciences, was even lucid in one detail of archaeology. He first questioned the theory that Troy, Homer's Troy, is in the place of today's Istanbul. Later... The research many, many years later confirmed that Boskovic, the insight of Boskovic. [[You don't understand.]] But what is particularly important is that Boskovic, who has achieved world fame and world recognition, has never lost, has interrupted his relationship with his homeland and his homeland. He constantly helped his neighbors and needy, and at every opportunity he stood up for his people. With his proposals, he undoubtedly contributed to the preservation of the independence of the Dubrovnik Republic. So at the time of his death, his personal secretary from Milan informed the Dubrovnik Senate that the homeland, you watch out for your country, lost the greatest man of Europe, country and Europe, who always felt unspeakable loyalty to the country, the same thing that the country felt for him. So today, when we are going to mark Ruđer Boskovic this year, we need to see the fact that while we, sometimes hard, sometimes even with great effort, are breaking into Europe, towards the world, that Ruđer Boskovic is there and that from his lofty place he invites us to join him in Europe and in the world, while at the same time, as he has never forgotten his homeland, as he never stopped being a patriot, that we, walking towards that Europe, retain our love for our country, towards patriotism as Ruđer Boskovic did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68016	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68017	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is not disputed that the HNS Club, HSU, will support this proposal, and it is not disputed that everything that the esteemed colleague Selem said is true. However, you will allow us to add a few more sentences with the goal of making us even more effective in the future when it comes to our cultural and historical heritage. It is not questionable that Ruđer Boskovic was the greatest intellectual, or one of the greatest intellectuals of his time, but when today my colleagues and colleagues, here in the Parliament or we go down to the square and do a small survey, and only ask that citizens, Croatian citizens, mark three of his successes, concrete in the field of mathematics, physics, astrology, believe me 99.9% of Croatian citizens would not know how to put three of his successes on paper. This applies to all other Croatian giants. So it's not enough just to declare a year, a month, a day or a week of this or that giant, to systematically, to make it possible for new generations to explore and meet these people. In other countries, giants are used for tourist purposes, for economic purposes, and for all other purposes. Unfortunately, we're not doing it enough. Mr. Boskovic was a man who made a great contribution to western trigonometry, a man who made an extraordinary contribution... geometry, a man who studied stars, had already suspected there were stars of great and small and denseness, only in the last century, in the 20th century giants and dwarfs were then confirmed as such. [[You don't understand.]] He studied clear eruptions, sunspots, observed and found that the sun revolved around its axis, determined the measure of the sun and made a huge contribution to many other areas. Nils Bor won the Nobel Prize in the 20th century for a model that is nothing more than a elaborate model Boskovic first assumed that matter consisted of similar tiny particles, so what we later called an atom. I think that his discoveries, but also many others, here he is as a priest clearly and loudly said the Pope in 1616 was wrong, Copernicus was right. It's a heliocentric system, brave and determined, objective and true. So I think that with greats like Boskovic we have to admire, he was recognized as a true giant in his day, he was a member of the Russian Academy of Science, he was a member of the British Royal Society, he was in charge of the French Navy for the problems of optics, so navigational systems, etc., so the greats we know almost nothing about in Croatia. Except he was born in Dubrovnik. Well done. But more than that, unfortunately, there isn't. My colleagues and colleagues, I must say, this is not a criticism on the left or right of the assembly, but I think we need to do a lot more. I will specifically tell you a few more words about my county, the Primorje-Gorski County. I, when I was president of the county assembly, often did small surveys with our guests, with tourists, etc., and then I would ask them if you ever heard of the Baška tablet, do you know what a smooth verb is, originally a Croatian letter, do you know anything about Baromić, about... About Clovic, people born in my neighborhood. [[You don't understand.]] No one knows anything clearly. Have you ever heard of Kastavsky... Statute, the oldest documents of ordinary law in Europe. [[You don't understand.]] No one knows anything. No sign, nowhere on the road that there's a museum, that there's some curator who'll explain it to him. So that's not good. Clearly, I could list many more giants. Here we are in the hall of Ban Mažuranić. It is the biggest reformer Croatia has ever had since the century 7th to this day. In seven years, 36 reforms. We don't talk about it. This fellow Members and colleagues, I think, is not a good way, that we must systematically enter, and into primary schools, their programs, in high school, and in tourism and all the other projects that we have daily practically here in the Parliament, and I think that we can and should make a great contribution ourselves. After all, I'm going to ask you, what the secretary of state didn't say, is the pronoun of this idea to be declared this year by the Year of Ruđer Boskovic is that the proposal of the Ministry of Education? It's not. Is that a proposal from the tourism ministry? It's not. The Ministry of Culture? It's not. My colleagues and colleagues, it's too bad it's not like that, but on the outside, they remind us of a anniversary like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68018	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68019	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, here I want to join this debate and, of course, support the idea that this year is declared Ruđer Boskovic, but here we heard from Mr. Selem that the Committee decided without debate to propose to the Croatian Parliament. It is already saying something without debate, or it is in itself understood that Boskovic deserves it or that without the debate, they did not need to discuss it a little more and enter into particulars to best mark Ruđera Boskovic's year. We heard a lot about his biography, so I would not like to repeat it here, but I am so that the 300th anniversary of Ruđer Boskovic's death programme includes exactly what Mr. Doric was talking about, which is that if the post-festum is now possible, it is possible to enter the school programmes, to maintain the stands throughout Croatia to regain the role of Ruđer Boskovic. You know it wasn't common in ancient Dubrovnik to set monuments for the greats or the people of the populace. The only monument that was set in Dubrovnik, but never on the public surface but within the prince's court, it was a member of the regiment Micha Pracat who left all his wealth and all his ships to the Dubrovnik Republic. We marked the year before last of the year of Marina Držić, and we interrupted that precedent. It was founded a commission at the state level and a monument to Marina Štrić we set up with the conservator's consent in a beautiful space between the Court and the Council. And this year I propose, and I believe that this will happen when you talk about the organisational committee because I didn't realize by the end now what would be the composition of that organisational committee to include setting up already existing you would have never been able to place on the Poljana Ruđer Boskovica in Dubrovnik. By the way, during all eight years of my term as mayor of Dubrovnik, I tried Poljan Ruđer Boskovic, who is in front of the Jesuit church in Dubrovnik to try to get consent from the Conservatory Department for the plating of that hall. We've never been able to agree on the ground and that field and today it looks as dusty as it seemed to me in exactly what century. I therefore urge you to go from your level to the Ministry of Culture and the Conservatory Department to finally resolve this problem in Dubrovnik and to place a bust on the same field Ruđer Boskovic. Here I have just a few details from the time Ruđer Boskovic died and when he said Mr. Selem his secretary informed the Senate, the Senate did not discuss his death two or three days after but only two months after his death they decided to discuss him. And they had three ideas. The first idea was to set up a sign or a monument. This was out of the question because it was not the custom in Dubrovnik to post inscriptions or monuments. Only 2 citizens of Nikolic Bona and Trajan Lalić were granted the right to set up a memorial plate and this first Bona because he did not want to sign a contract harmful to Dubrovnik, while another Trajan Lalić who did great diplomatic services to the city and saved the city, supplied it with grain at a time of famine. Those two dominoes got a record inside the Prince's court. Then they had another suggestion. So he's been denied the proposal to set up a record for him. So let us not sin today if we are already saying that he has such merits. Then it was another idea to set up a statue in the Prince's court. That was out of the question again. And it was only the third idea, which after 2 months was served the solemn mass in the cathedral of suffocation, and then Bernard Zamanja gave a speech that entered as one of the best, most beautiful 18th century posthumous speeches, he entered Dubrovnik history. And after his ravishing speech, in which he described all of his merits, the Senate was then with most votes without debate and they then concluded that this Zamanja was donated with a gold box worth 30 cheques because it was so well done and that this speech was printed in a state account, and that the procurators of the cathedral set up a stone inscription in the cathedral where they found it most convenient. And there's a sign in the cathedral and it's there today. So, the only thing that was given him in the cathedral was one inscription, and all thanks to that ravishing speech by his associate Zamama, otherwise he wouldn't have gotten it either. That's why I'm saying this all because today we don't make a mistake like what, if it was so in the time of the Dubrovnik Republic that they didn't need outside manifestations for the cracks or the patricians, I think today because of all these merits he's given not only for Dubrovnik, for Croatia, but for the world, I think Ruđer Boskovic deserved it. Otherwise, I would like to say that he is a Dubrovčanin at birth, but by his father and by his background he is from Herzegovina from Orah Dol and I hear that there is an initiative in a neighboring village of Ravnom which is located near Orah's Dol where they will have already built a monument at the left hand of "Maria Ujević" and in that village of Ravnom, which is famous for many things to build a monument to Ruđer Boskovic. Well, it wouldn't be good if it were there without us doing it in Dubrovnik. No one mentioned that Pope Benedict XIV was his. that he was hired to repair the dome of St. Peter in Rome. It's one of his great merits too, I don't think that's a waste of telling. You must know that his life span was 76 years old. So he lived for a relatively long time, and he had plenty of time to do what he did, and he was celebrated and honored in Italy, France, Britain, Germany, we heard all the honours he had. And at that time traveling the coast around Troy, Bosporus all, he visited the Mediterranean and beyond and came to France and England where he received all possible honors. I believe that this organisational committee, which you spoke about by the State Secretary, should necessarily include what I have talked about, that in other cities of course in Croatia it is necessary to discuss it, but it is certain that Dubrovnik is the place where this 300th anniversary should be honored, and I believe that you will do so with great care and care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68020	Thank you. We've got a replica, Mrs. Sumrak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68021	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, fellow Members, I've been very interested in listening to this presentation of yours and, of course, I will take advantage of one occasion which also applies to Ruđer Boskovic and to the treatment of our scientist and son of Hrvatska, but the way some political parties are used with our other Croatian sons of scientists and I must tell the artists. It is about setting up a statue and you would like Nikola Tesla, who was in the idea opposite Ruđer Boskovic in front of the institute, our master Meštrovic wanted those two scientists to look at each other, but in silence the exchange of thoughts, however, in the interest of the SDP campaign is fast-tracking this Meštrovic's work down the street of Nikola Tesla where he is shaded by a tree and people set up bicycles. So, it would be good for that statue to return to Ruđer and put something in place that would indeed mark our great Croatian son Nikola Tesla but of course what would be appropriate in that space. I'm only saying this because sometimes it's very difficult to get from the conservatives, but it's hard to ask, so neither has the SDP in the City of Zagreb asked but I repeat did a culture and this would be an idea for us to ask for it back to place, and to place in Nikola Tesla an appropriate thing to mark Tesla. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68022	Thank you. And the replica of Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68023	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we are all aware and we know that Ruđer Boskovic is one of the Croatian giants who contributed to the creation of this kind of Europe that we live in today, and many others are with him. When it comes to the monument mentioned by fellow Shuica, of course there is one Meštrović drain that should have been placed in Milan and I hope, I hear that the latest initiatives are that it will be put in Milan then there were no very strange reasons because the monument below says he is a Croat, but it is probably going to happen now and it will happen. But by the way, last year the Ministry of Culture proposed to UNESCO that this year be Ruđer Boskovic's year, we are already living through UNESCO this year, Ruđer Boskovic, and it is our turn to confirm it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68024	Thank you. And replica Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68025	Thank you very much, Mr. Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. I would like to replicate to my colleague Shuici, who in her speech spoke about how Ruđera Boskovic's father, Nikola, was born from Orahov's Dol in the municipality of Ravna in eastern Herzegovina, right behind the hill when traveling on the highway to Dubrovnik, seen from Slano. I come from that area myself, and I am obliged here to say that the initiative of cousin Boskovic and his successors at Orah's home, which are gathering at the Ruđer Boskovic's home club in Dubrovnik and the Municipality of Ravna, was born to create a monument to Ruđer Boskovic himself. The monument is near the end and this spring will be the opening of that monument. So his father, Nikola, as well as many people in that area, were heading toward Dubrovnik, or further to Europe. If Ruđer were alive today, he would surely be the first or among the first Croats in the European Union, and that would be the best picture of us and our commitment to the European Union. And from that part of Herzegovina we are proud of both Ruger and Bishop Andrijasevic and many others who were born and whose ancestors were born there. Until today, because from there is the father and Nikša Prkačina, the present and recent captain of the Croatian team, as well as the mother of Sandra Jovanovic. I would ask that the government in its programme of marking Ruđer Boskovic's year in one way include this part because it is a value for that area for which our small place and for this great Croatian man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68026	Thank you. Mrs. Shuica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68027	Oh, here's a quick one, I wouldn't want to get the impression that we're fascinated by monuments and that's all we really want, it would be much more important to get into school programs like I said. But maybe there's a huge resistance to setting up a monument, especially when it comes to Dubrovnik because it's really one special environment, and I think this is a unique opportunity to take advantage of this year. Of course I support your initiative, when you spoke about the European Union, our president often says that we are going back to where we came from. Boskovic is obviously a living example of Croatia and Dubrovnik and our hinterland now Bosnia and Herzegovina being Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68028	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68029	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Well, we've heard about the biography before, we've heard about the suggestions, we've heard about history, and I'm going to have my discussion today not to repeat ourselves, talk about what's going on, and I'm glad Mr. Bishop said that we long ago know that this is the year of Ruđera Boskovic, and so we're in the city of Dubrovnik and we're acting and we started with initiatives. In fact, cooperation with the Ruđer Bošković Institute started in January, or programmes that the city of Dubrovnik is working and will work through this year. In this year, when we mark the 30th anniversary of the birth of Josip Ruđer Boskovic, we can say once and we have heard from the most prominent scientists of the 18th century many call him a universal man of renaissance who left a mark in many countries. The city of Dubrovnik, of course, is in collaboration with the Institute of Mines Bošković, with Dubrovnik diocese, Dubrovnik University, then with public institutions in culture we included the College of Directors, i.e. we included primary school students precisely because they need to be educated how we inherit what we actually have the value of scientists in our Croatia. So we're going to do a series of activities that will naturally be held to celebrate this jubilee. I must stress that we have formed a working group containing members of the Cultural Heritage Council, so as far as the monument is concerned, we have already started with the initiative to return monuments or place them on Boskovic's knee, which is what the colleague used to say before that. Some of the most important activities here to present are, in fact, the International Scientific Symposium that we have organised, in fact, which is being organised by the Ruđera Bošković Institute to date. This is the contribution of Croatian scientists to the world's scientific heritage. The event will take place in May and is expected to be over a thousand scientists, including eminent world scientific names. I have to say that this is very important for the city of Dubrovnik because this is exactly the kind of gatherings that give one dimension even greater, and with other aspects of tourism, of course Dubrovnik is given another dimension of one image of the centre of scientific tourism. So we have to say when we look at the historical spiritual and scientific atmosphere, it has given a number of scientists and artists, that's why I say Dubrovnik deserves to be the center of scientific tourism. I still have to stress that one project is planned to brand Ruđer Boskovic. Here we have heard from previous discussions if polls were to be made to ask ourselves who would know and how much about Ruđer Boskovic, therefore I think it is very important and that is the goal of the project called "Ruđer Boskovic genius of the 18th century". It is actually branding in terms of raising the level of consciousness and importance of Ruđer Boškovic in Croatian and world frameworks, as well as his contribution to the human community which is the heritage of Croatia, but not only Croatia but also the world. The owner of this project is the city of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik Museums. The backbone will be a variety of exhibitions that will present his work and Boskovic as physicists, mathematicians, astronomers, geodetics, engineers, poets, philosophers, archaeologists, diplomats, constructors, etc. However, I must mention here and we have heard so far that we must mention it as a great patriot regardless of what was in Dubrovnik by some 16 years, it has never forgotten the Croatian language, never forgotten helping its own and never forgot to help in terms of the execution of diplomatic missions. Therefore, it will be one complete presentation of Boskovic as part of the 300th anniversary of his birth. I would stress here that just Dubrovnik is such a single center, an ideal place to conduct this action. Why? It is precisely because we will be able to present it to our locals, as well as to all tourists who will come to us during this year, the year of Ruđer Boskovic. In this sense, what is most important is the promotion of Dubrovnik, which is the consciousness and knowledge of its own identity and of its own heritage and of course of uncut values such as Ruđer Boskovic's legacy. As far as I know his name carries one crater on the moon, then the institute of course Ruđera Boskovica's character is on our bills. I am also as familiar as I am with the initiative that came from Paris that one street in Paris bears the name of Josip Ruđer Boskovic and I hope that this initiative will be implemented. And speaking of France, at Paris, the Society of Croatian Students 15 years ago placed a memorial plate on the house where Ruđer worked and lived for a time while he was in Paris and on the board is in Croatian, it is the only record in France where it is written that Ruđer Boskovic is alive and worked there. We didn't answer on behalf of the club, but of course this is an initiative that we all support together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68030	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68031	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Šimac Bonačić I fully agree with you and I am very pleased to hear that the city of Dubrovnik organizes all these activities, but I would like to take this opportunity once again and underline that I wanted to highlight something else in my intervention. Not to mention our greats just on the anniversary of birth and the anniversary of death. So now we're going to wait 76 years to mark the 300th anniversary of death to mention it again. My intervention went in the direction that he and other greats must be an integral part of our teaching programs, that our greats must be part of our tourist brochures, that he and our other greats must be regularly represented in various museums and as such mentioned and daily clearly communicate with them. I'm sorry that our young people know more about Argentine football players, American heroes from the Wild West, French actors than Croatian giants. That was the point of my performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68032	Answer. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68033	Thank you very much. A colleague of Doric's, so just what you said we were doing in Dubrovnik. So we included in the entire Dubrovnik programme and museums with a program that I said not only for today, not just for this year, but also for primary school students to mark this year with their work. And we are introducing another college of heritage that will include all the values of material and immaterial heritage that God Dubrovnik truly has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68034	Thank you very much. In conclusion, State Secretary Ivana Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68035	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is only the lecture on Mr Doric's remarks on the involvement of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Culture in this event. I would just like to further clarify that both the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration are working on this project throughout 2010. Mr. Biskupić has already said that in collaboration between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of Diplomatic Activities, it was made that UNESCO also declared 2011 as the Year of Ruđer Boskovic and is just one part of this joint event and marking, so the Croatian contribution to UNESCO, marking Ruđer Boskovic's year. Furthermore, the Ministry of Science in cooperation with the Academy of Technical Sciences has gathered about 30 different events at the level of the Republic of Croatia, which will be marked by Godin Ruđer Boskovic, and one of the events is also a symposium in Dubrovnik organised by the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, which the representative lady mentioned. Furthermore, within these events there are also a number of educational programmes and scientific programmes, as well as cultural programmes, and so my opinion is that our three ministries have just made one major contribution and proposed this programme to the government to be marked at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68036	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote hopefully this afternoon, and when I mention it, please lead the clubs, yes, it's already announced yesterday so the vote will be at 12 o'clock and we can gather together. We move to the 2011 Proposed Decision of "The Year of Ruđer Boskovic" in the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the 2011 Proposed Decision of the Year of Ruđer Boskovic in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously with 91 votes. In the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68039	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll try to present in the shortest lines just a taste of the work of the National Council. In 2009, the National Council finally saw the end of that mass opening of new study programmes, but it was not over because in that year we issued a license for 72 even new studies, but that we weren't really all a permissive filter proves maybe the fact that we refused a license, or recommended the minister not to issue a pass for 13 new studies and for 4 new high schools. For some, it was not difficult, it was an attempt to establish a high school in two - room apartments. Also, we are pleased that the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, which actually gives great authority to the Science Agency and which has started to evaluate the study programmes, so it is worth four law schools, all of them getting passes. Also, it was evaluated in that year by eight universities. The high schools did not go so well, they mostly received a letter of expectations for the purpose of repairing themselves and showing them their weaknesses well-intentioned, with of course not all their faults. They're young institutions, and they should be given a chance to get better. This was in the shortest lines of my report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68040	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68041	Mr. President, colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2009 and the Financial Report of the National Council for Higher Education in 2009. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body, and the opening statement was submitted by a representative of the rapporteur. The 2009 National Council for Higher Education reports highlight a systematic change that came into force by the 2009 Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, according to which external quality assurance of higher education was taken over by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. In view of the fact that before the entry into force of that Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the National Council was to be resolved under the existing provisions, the main work of the National Council for 2009 was to address those requirements concerning the launch of new study programmes, as well as the resolution of earlier start-up procedures for the external evaluation of higher schools. According to the National Council's 2009 report, the evaluation of 4 new undergraduate programmes, 9 new graduate programmes, 1 integrated undergraduate and graduate programmes, 11 professional studies programmes and 17 specialist and 30 postgraduate specialist and 13 postgraduate university programmes was completed. On the basis of the evaluation results, the National Council recommended that the Minister issue a 3 licence, watch the ratio of numbers, for 3 new undergraduate university studies, 8 new university studies, 1 integrated undergraduate, graduate and university studies, 5 vocational studies, 13 specialist studies, 30 postgraduate specialist and 12 postgraduate university studies. Also, on the basis of the evaluation results, the National Council for Higher Education recommended in 2009 the Minister of Admission for 1 undergraduate university study, 1 graduate university study, 6 vocational studies, 4 specialist graduate studies and 1 postgraduate university doctoral study. The National Council for Higher Education in that year made it clear that it recommended the Minister to issue a certificate for 72 new university programmes, while for 13 new studies and 4 new higher schools, the National Council recommended the Minister for Short of Admission. In the process of estimating the existing higher universities, the National Council for Higher Education discussed the requirements for the establishment of eight higher universities, which recommended the minister to issue a certificate to a new private university in Split for four high schools, while three high schools at the end of 2009. As one of the most important activities in 2009 the National Council cited the external evaluation of 8 existing higher schools, of which 3 higher schools and 5 universities, and the completed external evaluation of the Law Schools started in 2008. On the basis of the procedures carried out to evaluate the university and higher schools, the National Council recommended that the Minister extend the permit to carry out the activities of a university and, for the other evaluations of the university and high school, it was recommended that the Minister be granted a letter of expectation with a deadline in which the activities to remove the observed shortcomings were undertaken. In the discussion, individual committee members expressed dissatisfaction with the way the National Council has approached the resolution of certain important issues relating to the lack of strategic thinking. I repeat strategic thinking in the area of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. They believe that no strategic guidelines have been developed in the report to bring higher education into line with the problems or needs of the economy. Discussing the network of higher education universities is the opinion of the board members that the National Council should consult representatives of certain institutions, that the need to adopt the network is urgent, hastily, and that it is not a good solution to postpone and wait for a strategic document to be drawn up until all assumptions are met. Discussing the starting grounds for a network of higher universities, the board members feel that they are certainly the basis for accessing the design of higher education networks in the Republic of Croatia. In order to produce as high-school strategic document as possible, the Committee considers that it is necessary to establish a working group whose composition will consist of individual members of this committee, which will send all proposals, requests and suggestions to the National Council relevant for the adoption of that document. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2009 and the Financial Report of the National Council for Higher Education in the same year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68042	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68043	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the President of the High Education Council, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. We have a report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2009 and from that report to this day, many other circumstances have arisen. But this is one good inventory of the problem and what has been done, because indeed anyone who wants to get a complete insight into this report gives him a whole range of problems and good things that have been done. There's been a lot of debate on the board, as we've heard. But we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community hold that the report should be accepted and that it should continue to address especially the problems observed here, and particularly in the conclusion are listed, so I will make an effort at the end of them and highlighted. What's important is to say that this report came under the influence of two laws and that the National Council was working under the influence of those two laws. By April 2009, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education was in force, and a Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, whose application allowed the National Council to become truly what the strategic body is tasked with, while the Agency for Science and Higher Education to gain new roles, particularly the roles of quality assurance. That is very important to say because it shows that we are developing a system and building it from the inside. It should also be said that the National Council for Higher Education addressed several issues. This looked at the requirements for new studies and programmes. We know that since 2005 alone, more than 1,000 study programmes and a large number of new institutions have been established. So there's a forest. But there is not only Croatian specificity. She also said European, especially Eastern European, is very strong in other parts and it is somehow in line with the time we live in. Another series of problems or circumstances in which the National Council for Higher Education has worked to externally evaluate higher universities, and I must commend there that there is something to be learned about these procedures, and I will talk about these levels in particular later. And the third set of issues discussed by the National Higher Education Council are various issues that have arisen, such as the issue of the current binary system organisation. We know that Croatia has chosen this path of implementation. Almost half of the professional studies at universities questionable differences in the curricula of the first Bologna level of professional and professional university studies. There's a problem here. And we know that Croatia has chosen this path through universities and universities, and then there are these interferences, and this brings up certain problems in practice and issues that raise the sustainability of postgraduate specialist studies, which as such do not exist in foreign and high education systems. So, the question of the unrecognizableness of the prime minister on the labour market. It discussed the continuation of existing study programmes, etc. etc. And later on, I'll tell you a little bit more about it. The National Council for Higher Education also discussed the network of higher universities. That's one thing, I'd say one serious problem because there's exactly no such document, and it's not easy to bring in certain problems in that space, and there's problems about college studies, similar studies. Let's say in the same area or space, we have this Croatia today... Let's say history, that we don't speak from the economy in management, etc. [[You don't understand.]] There are unnecessary competitions in a small space, and then we don't have enough staff, and then teachers have to travel and in some ways create other difficulties. In particular, I would like to point out here that the new undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate studies that were being opened seem particularly important to me to say that the attention has been paid to the evaluation of post-graduate university doctoral studies, the study programmes, which took care of the consistency of the structure of the proposed doctoral programmes with the principles for the establishment of postgraduate doctoral studies, and the recommendation on the establishment of postgraduate doctoral studies adopted by the National Council for Higher Education. Fulfillment of the criteria prescribed by the criteria for the evaluation of higher universities in the university system. It is the same space where we need to be very careful, because things can get out of hand, and then certain frames are produced that can cause damage in Croatia in the long term. We also have a lot of information here on the course of evaluation of new undergraduate, graduate, professional, and postgraduate universities and specialist studies. I would not read all of this, but I would warn something that seems very good to me, which is that a number of these council programmes in 2009 recommended to the minister a short letter for a pre-graduate university study, a graduate university study, 6 vocational studies, 4 specialist graduates, and a postgraduate university doctoral study. It seems to me that there should be a little more, because sometimes we uncritically release and create other collegiations, other problems that I've already highlighted, but this is already a good sign that the council has the strength and responsibility to deal with. It is interesting that the new higher universities Croatia has recently received more universities, so-called Adriatic universities of Pula, Zadar, Dubrovnik, but some private universities such as the media university in Split appear. I would like to say that there are often some unwarranted criticisms in public at the expense of some new universities because it seems to us that the development of modern Croatian society should also be monitored by higher education institutions that are developing in the Croatian periphery, so I would like to say, because if we never do, we will never come to that and we will have a very large gap of certain staff that we will not have in these areas, let's say the Adriatic and the coastal Croatia. It seems to me that everyone who knows the development and European society knows that the new knowledge has always come from the Mediterranean, from the Adriatic to the continent, but today it has gone all the way to Finland and beyond, but we return these principles to ourselves, because it seems to me that I come from Istria, that the University of Pula, where some of the scientists who have seen them sometimes use some paradigms, as if their department is larger than the university, I think they are very wrong, should not do so, because Croatian society in Istria never had such an institution, and for him today the university is the same as it was in 1899, the first high school in Croatian language in Istria. So let us be aware of the situation in which we are, what we should support, but so let us not allow us to have two departments of history in Pula and Rijeka, that is not necessary. If we had a net of that stuff, it wouldn't have happened. Therefore, the strategy that we are developing around higher schools must be the fundamental one, the one that should fit Croatian society and higher education, and those competitive things that happen so that only some of them should move that. And that's what there is. I've specifically prepared a part here that was most interesting to me, and I want to pass it on to you and our public, which is an external evaluation of the existing high schools. I read very thoroughly that during 2009 an external evaluation of 8 higher schools was carried out, of which 3 in higher schools, 5 universities, and the external evaluation of 4 law schools began in 2009. I will refer here to the methodology of these analyses, these external evaluations, first of all, they are based on the starting points for carrying out external evaluations were only analyses that high schools in the evaluation process after receiving the notice in the announcement of the evaluations were obliged to draw up according to the document instructions for assembling high-school self-analysis in the composition of the university. I would also like to say here that it was introduced, and this is the Agency for Science and Higher Education, that it introduced a method of compulsory education of members of professional committees before visiting higher schools, according to a very serious methodology. On the other hand, the two sides of the consultant, i.e. the evaluator, were introduced, which is the same in this methodology as the severity of the approach. And when that applies, then we got a very good picture of the condition in that space. Of the 8 esteemed higher schools and universities, these are the universities in Karlovac, the university in Požega, the university in Rijeka, the health university in Zagreb, the university of Velika Gorica, the higher business school for tourist and hotel management Utilis in Zagreb, the high business school with the right of the public Visnjan, the high school for business and management of Baltazar Adam Krčeljić in Zaprešić, we received a good defeating state. There is only one university, and this in Rijeka is immediately granted permission to work on, and others have received a letter, very culturally, politely, with what they should do in the course of the year. That's one I'd say ID to everyone, but that's one important piece of information that we need to get to know, because that's the key issues of those high schools, and that's the key learning problems in the evaluation of high schools high school high school schools, the unfavourable ratio of permanent teachers and external co-workers, that's the one problem. Namely well-valued universities and high schools, although relatively young institutions, which are only building a base of their teachers and co-workers, should make additional efforts to increase the number of permanent teachers, so that they carry most of the teaching burden on professional studies, especially compared to the growing number of enrolled students. There's one, some data really warns. For example, the global average for student/teacher ratio is 15.7 according to UNESCO in 2006, and in Croatia the number moves around 20, and at these higher universities as high as 60. These are alarming data that they really need in practice live and dynamically get rid of, because they say we haven't reached yet the levels we should have. In addition to increasing the number of permanent teachers, universities should implement more active training policy, including pedagogical training and achieve training abroad. Also related to the availability of existing spaces and equipment, significant deviations have been observed between valued universities. The issue of libraries and reading rooms is also missing, as are some other problems, an internal quality assurance system for valued universities and high schools. So, just an evaluation to see that quality. I want to show here the example of how the Velect in Rijeka has been evaluated, which has met the strict criteria and criteria. I just want to point out one procedure here to see, let's see in the Croatian Parliament that it is a complex task and complex work. First of all, it is clear what members of the commission, then the protocol on the work of the commission, the report on the results of the evaluation of the quality of efficiency of the university. Then a meeting with the dean, the producers and the expert council that had an expert evaluation committee. Meeting with the Working Group on Samoanalysis and the Quality Monitoring Committee. Then the acts of the university were specifically analysed. Mission, organisation of a university from the board of directors to the council of departments, organisation of studies, level of teaching staff of the university, quality of space of university, quality of information, internal quality assurance system etc., etc. Why am I bringing this up? To show that Croatia has built a serious evaluation system and that everyone must comply with because if we miss it for nothing all of our criticisms, the discussions of academics that may seem to be. And finally, I see that it is starting to shine, I just want to point out the conclusion that the National Council for Higher Education here presented all of these problems that I was saying, but it also argued: that in 2009, the quality of higher education can be seen by the adoption of a new Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education as a framework for future external quality co-operation processes, the introduction of state graduates as the only way to enter a system of higher education that avoids the possibility of enrolment of students at higher schools, especially private schools and universities without the appropriate selection process, which alone contributes to the quality of enrolled students and allows transparency of the entire process; the initiative of individual universities in determining the outcome of their study programmes as a way to create a Croatian qualification framework. So that's those positive movements. Construction of national and information systems, higher education, etc. And finally, just one sentence, I would like to say that this 2009 report will be accepted by the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68044	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Agent Iron Flego, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68045	I'm a friend of yours. After the adoption of the Quality Insurance Act, the National Council for Higher Education became what should become, namely, a strategic body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the National Council for Higher Education has become a strategic body. I think that finding is not correct because we, even during the debate on the board, have established that the National Council for Higher Education is not doing its strategic tasks right now. Secondly, your almost complete discussion of colleagues, Šetić, is actually a debate on technicals. In your debate, you did not highlight any strategic dimension on which the National Council for Higher Education would debate or decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68046	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68047	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd just correct my colleague, maybe he missed it, so when he got the Velect's licenses in Rijeka, he also got his license from Požega City with a specialist study. So, according to this, the City of Požega has also received permits, no confirmations and indeed works according to all possible standards that we in Požega-Slavon County are extremely satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68048	Thank you. And the correction of Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68049	It is not an accurate quote from counterpart Setic that the Republic of Croatia has established a good system of external evaluation in the system of higher education. If that were true then there would be a sort of feedback between the process of external evaluation which, in some sense, takes place and the resulting performance of the course, i.e. the very quality of the lecture. So the contradiction in your exposure and inaccuracy in that you can't argue that we have a good evaluation system, and then argue that we have an entirely inappropriate number, or ratio of students and professors. So if a good evaluation system had been established, these things would simply be corrected and no longer need to be established. Therefore, not only have we not established a good evaluation system but we are not fully implementing all the processes that should exist in these evaluation systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68050	Thank you. It is up to the SDP club and Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68051	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Sailor, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the SDP club is that, for several years now, the debate over the Annual Report of the National Higher Education Council has not actually been a debate on what the report says, but on what is not in the report. And we were right to expect it to be. There is no doubt that this debate on the 2009 Report too, given that the National Council for Higher Education has not done what the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education obliges it to discuss what the National Council would have to do or what it had to do, and it has failed. So we find this report at least discouraging. As we consider it discouraging and introduced, it's a professor's opening statement. A sailor who was as short as I remember one of the shortest in this House. It is an extremely important segment in Croatian society. It is also discouraging that last year we discussed the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education for a long time, we were very critical, we expressed our dissatisfaction, we would say a very constructive debate in which we reached a consensus on the need for different work, different activities of the National Council for Higher Education, which would then result in a completely different report on work. We said we didn't want the National Council to turn into some kind of administrative and technical committee, which, based on certain criteria, gives opinions, passes, passes and all that it gives. We also said that we do not want a technical report that will count the jobs that the National Council has done in the previous year. Since the report is no different than last year's law we can ask ourselves, and we at the SDP Club are wondering if this debate makes any sense at all. After all we've been saying, does this debate make any sense? Which is why we're wasting our time saying the same thing we did last year. Isn't this a professional body whose work we are discussing today not appointed by the Parliament, is it not the Parliament's answer? If that's the case, then I wonder if it makes any sense to what we say and do in the House. We at the SDP Club consider it entirely justified to ask what the National Council for Higher Education is for and what is ultimately its social role. DO we have a roof body in Croatia, if we have an institution that cares for the development and quality of the entire system of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. If we in Croatia have a single body that knows, can and will see current needs, see the current situation in the system of higher education and the current need of society, in the economy, if we in Croatia have a professional body that can, wants to offer this Assembly a vision of the development of higher education. If we have an expert body that can, knows and wants to predict the effects of society, what we think should be done in the future. So we think it's about time we admitted two things. First, we've spent too much time infuriating, experimenting, not knowing with a devastating effect, and the long-term consequences for which colleagues and colleagues have no excuse. And the other thing is our basic problem, it's not like that. And intricacies that usually make us have a situation the way we do. Yes, it is true, this is a very serious and very harsh criticism, but let us keep in the SDP Club that the situation in the higher education system is extremely serious. And whoever doesn't see it as colleagues and colleagues is absolutely not real. Which is why this Report does not contain what we have been talking about for years in this Assembly of colleagues and colleagues, which is why it does not contain an analysis of the real needs of society, the real needs of economies, and how the system of higher education meets these needs. Which is why we don't see in this report an analysis coming from the Employment Service, where we're going to see what professions are deficiting, which we're missing, which we've done hyperproduction all these years, I'd expect to see in this report. If anything else and then at least in the introduction of Professor Sailor's presentation, to tell us we had objective problems, we did other things, we did technical things, but you know our thinking in the higher education system is like that. There is no dilemma between a colleague and a colleague that the number of unemployed we have at the Employment Service today, which is over 320 thousand is directly related to the state of chaos in the system of higher education and the problem of non-compliance of higher education institutions with market requirements is alarming. But it's like no one cares, like no one's taking care of it. The number of archaic programmes, studies that have nothing to do with the needs of the market, is increasing every day, and the change in registration quotas is too slow or not happening at all. I would like to welcome finally that someone put all these great strategies that we have, from the development strategy of science, from the development strategy of tourism, agriculture, energy finally put on the table, put on one cup, and finally create a plan and look at the future of this country. Will anyone in the near future actually bring the current need for various professions in line with our long-term strategies and expected trends in the globalised world and then adapt the registration quotas. Shouldn't the National Higher Education Council just do that. Isn't that exactly his social role as a colleague and a colleague? The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in Article 7 obliged him to do so. That's exactly where he was entrusted. The problem in the high system is really much, what to say, for example, about Bologna and its correlation with the quality of education, in which, for example, the National Council for Higher Education encouraged the adoption of measures to improve the quality of higher education. Well, it's not absolutely visible from a colleague and colleague's report, but what's visible from the plane is problems in the system of higher education and the Bologna Reform. It doesn't sound good, but it's true that Bologna was mostly carried out on paper but not essentially. Educational problems are often not in line with the needs of society or economy and even less with modern scientific achievements. I think we should stop flattering ourselves and say that we are a society of knowledge because I remind you that free schooling for first year students in that same knowledge society managed only with mass student educations. Now, that can't afford a country where you want to achieve a higher number of highly educated people. Unfortunately, the students failed to fight, but it would be too much to expect from them, and to increase the quality of higher education. For example, hiring new experts, through exchange schemes, training teachers abroad, through scholarships for post-graduate studies, at world centres of excellence, etc. The first to Bologna is one of two reasons for the decline in the quality of higher education in Croatia. Some reformed study programmes, it's not a secret, were not allowed to get credentials, which is because of quality, which is due to the lack of personnel and spatial capacity to perform them. I'm asking who's responsible for this? Who is responsible for the non-serious conduct of the process of reviewing the reformed programmes and issuing the credentials. On the other hand, the reformed study programmes themselves have created an additional burden on teachers and on infrastructure, and the registration quotas either remain the same or have increased. And that's the second reason for the drop in quality. Of course, we as a club support an increase in the number of higher educations, but the state or ministry should provide both teaching and spatial capacities for their quality education. Yes, it is true that some new jobs have been opened at universities, but not nearly enough to successfully implement existing programmes according to existing registration quotas. I believe that we should no longer care about positive statistics with which, from time to time, we drill into the chest when we talk about society knowledge rather than quality. And in the end, one absolutely doesn't rule out the other. My colleagues and colleagues have been gone 2.5 years since the first generation of students finished their period and it would be good to know something about the results of that completed cycle. Are we satisfied? Are our expectations fulfilled? What's to change? Bologna is a dynamic process, I guess we're aware of which one should be monitored continuously. And then I ask a question, and who's supposed to do it? Since the first generation ended, only 12 of 120 or 130 higher universities have been evaluated. Well, gentlemen, if we're going at that pace, it's going to take us 26 years to do that job. Isn't that pointless? Well, of course it is. What to say about the financing of higher education, budgetary allocations for higher education and science are quite modest in both absolute and relative proportions, and we believe that the National Council for Higher Education and in this segment should also make a contribution to this Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. However, this report is not visible. So, colleagues and fellow MPs, if stability and long-term stability are needed in the policy period, then it is in the system of higher education. The National Council has been formed precisely to create in some way key preconditions to ensure high education, to ensure stability and long-term. And unfortunately, it's not possible without a vision, and the National Higher Education Council has not offered this vision in Parliament these years, and it doesn't, unfortunately, do it this year either. We at the SDP club expected to hear a vision from which we should be able to identify how we will ensure concrete and effective integration of higher education with society, the economy through a network of higher education through registration policy. How will we ensure the stability and long-term long term of higher education through material status, through the independence of university autonomy, and finally how will we connect higher education, politics and the economy, or the need of society? The roof organization and the National Council for Higher Education must have power and visions and incentives and implementation, not be some bureaucratic structure that has become its purpose. For all the reasons listed by the SDP club, they will not, of course, support the National High Education Council's annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68052	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68053	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to correct one fact in Mrs. Jerkovic's debate and she says there's chaos in the higher education system. That's completely incorrect. You're just reminding me a little later that we need stability to that system. Chaos isn't in any system because if you'd just read what it says about the Velect in the River where you come from, you can see there's perfection, there's very good things. Therefore, talking about the chaos of higher education in Croatia is incorrect, but talking about finding the best solutions, the problems it has, that is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68054	Thank you. We have a correction from Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68055	Mr. President. I'll only warn my dear colleague in one detail. I don't think it's an exact claim that student strikes, protests, etc. proof of the disability of the education system. While I was living and working in France, I had the good fortune and the accident that I lived near Sorbonne. From Sorbonne to the theater where I worked, maybe 500 meters. At least once a month I didn't get to work because they were student demonstrations, student protests. Student protests are the result of the last dynamics of student life. They are sometimes really related to the constant problems of the education system, and sometimes they are the result of the completely autonomous dynamics of November life and could not really be used as a claim in the sense that they are proof of some important deficits of the educational and high school system. Clearly they can be but they don't have to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68056	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Representative Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues, Jerkovic, will correct the incorrect assumption that, in the context of the development and financing of higher education, only the government should take care of that. So, you can't expect the government to solve everything and it's just completely in the service of politics, because it's common and you know it everywhere in the world just as well that the private sector and local and regional self-government are doing it. And that's the chance of a future. And likewise, the National Council is not for HDZ, nor the SDP, so I think we should make a difference here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68058	Thank you. Next on behalf of the club HHS, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68059	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the National Council, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, after the presentation of colleagues from HDZ and SDP, I will try to propose a third time in front of the HNS and HSU clubs. It is really hard to discuss a 2009 report, especially when it comes to unnecessarily entering into details. However, it is generally necessary to discuss the report and I will try to discuss it from the point of view of the lack of that report, but in general, I have located 5 groups of shortcomings. You will see colleagues and colleagues that members of the National Council are at least guilty of these shortcomings. First group of drawbacks. In every orderly state, there is one goal for people to be educated for the needs of that country and what one would expect to see, every year or every few years, the government will come out with a clear staff policy as long as it takes 5, 10 or 15 years for doctors, specialists doctors, how long that country will need judges, how long that country will need police officers, teachers, curators, etc., etc., etc. Have you ever heard that any Croatian government has come out in the last 20 years with a concrete long-term proposal and a projection of human resources in the field of social activities? It never happened. And we expect the National Council to offer us all the solutions. That's not possible, gentlemen. Second group of shortages. I have spoken and mentioned on both the board and the thematic session countless times a famous triangle that must function between politics, the education system and the economy. The real sector must also be involved in this story, they must say which profiles they lack, with which the staff are dissatisfied because they hire them, they know their lacks in knowledge, in skills. According to the reality of the sector, how much the economy is involved in the story, how often do members of the National Council meet with them, how much they agree with them, how this story goes, and how this co-operation works. It's a big and important moment when education policy is planned in one country. Third group of drawbacks. Already mentioned by someone, the National Council for Higher Education and the National Council for Science must be more common and must agree on a common strategy. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, if we educate personnel for these and these economic branches, then it is quite logical and to encourage research for those priority economic goals that we want to achieve. If we're going to help Končar, maybe we should put an emphasis on half-breeding. If we want to help Podravka, then it's probably quality and preserving food. If it's a pharmaceutical industry, then it's genetic engineering, etc., etc. How much and when we put these two stories together on the same track and started both with educational and research work and with technology transfer in line with the real, real needs of the Croatian economy. I believe you'll all be here to admit that we've never done it before. The fourth group of drawbacks. Professor Selem spoke of it in part. In fact, the committee developed a very correct story of us being parliamentary representatives responsible for a part of this very responsible job. If the National Council finds certain shortcomings, it finds a certain need to remove certain shortcomings not that and that way, then we here need to be sensitive to these proposals. When we make a budget, we have to put some of their demands at the top of the list of priorities, we have to support them, we have to move in that direction. However, there is never enough coordination there, we never respect their problems, the problems of higher education. And that is why our committee's proposal I think is very correct to form a working group that will communicate directly and more frequently and attend the meetings of the National Council when discussing strategic moments and trying to clearly be that link between them, i.e. the educational system, the Parliament and finally through you colleagues, who are members of the ruling coalition, then also to the government. The fifth and last group of shortcomings, colleagues and colleagues, which we need to think very intensely about. There's been hypertrophy of the higher education system in the last 10 years, countless universities, universities, universities. Today in those high schools we have 40,000 seats, so the capacity is 40,000. My colleagues and colleagues, 37,000 children are born in Croatia annually. It's a big and serious problem. In addition, we must offer solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68060	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, please. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68061	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Doric, who said by defining this problem, so that the system of secondary and higher education is not adapted to the labour market and that it cannot be transferred to the National Council but rather that it is the responsibility of the government. It can only be partially true. In fact, we see from this report that the National Council has given approvals to 30 new universities, which means that it has both authority and responsibility, and that it was also necessary to participate in the process of meeting the needs of the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68062	Thank you. And it is up to the Club of Representatives of HSS and Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68063	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Council, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report of the National Council notes that over the last five-year period, more than a thousand applications for the launch of new study programmes and the establishment of new higher schools were accepted, and that considering these requirements and giving an opinion on them was the main activity of the National Council for Higher Education during that period. Namely, such a huge amount of work that led to the National Higher Education Council on concrete received requirements makes it impossible for it to deal with its second strategic role as prescribed by law as the highest professional body to care for the development and quality of the entire higher education system in the Republic of Croatia. The problem was also warned only by the National Council, and we also recognized the problem in the Croatian Parliament when considering the regular annual reports sent by the Council to the Assembly. The adoption of the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, whereby the Agency for Science and Higher Education assumes the role of the holder of the external quality assurance process in higher education, has reached the legal preconditions that the National Council for Higher Education indeed assumes its role as a strategic body that is considering the development and improvement of the existing system of higher education. In line with the conclusion of the National Council for Higher Education, which recommends that earlier approved study programmes in cases of changes or additions, we consider, above all, changes in the name of studies or names of more than 20% of colleges, changes in more than 20% of content to more than 20% of colleges, changes in competences and declared working qualifications, as well as changes in the number of points between compulsory and election colleges should be re-routed to the National Higher Education Council for consideration, the said body received and considered 26 such requests for which the Minister addressed appropriate recommendations. During 2009, an external evaluation of 8 higher schools was carried out, of which 3 higher schools and 5 higher schools, and the external evaluation of four Law Schools was completed in 2009. It is one of the most significant and comprehensive activities in 2009. That external evaluation of higher universities was carried out by the National Council for Higher Education and the Agency for Science and Higher Education in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the quality and efficiency of higher education and study programmes which were valid until the entry into force of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education. We at the Croatian Peasant Party club will support the report because we think it shows some problems in higher education in a good way, and here we will highlight only some that are listed in this report. Almost all schools and high schools evaluated in 2009 have seen the problem of insufficient strategic thinking and lack of appropriate strategic documents, and there are very often not all the necessary documents governing the structure, activity and higher education. Although among well-valued universities and higher schools there are very good examples of active integration with the entrepreneurial sector and local community we are concerned about the fact that some of the well-valued higher schools even though they carry out professional studies have no developed cooperation with the economy, there is no system of student practice solved properly, does not monitor the employment of their completed students or the satisfaction of employers with the competences of completed students, so there is no feedback from employers on the quality and usefulness of the study programmes. One of the key problems identified in the evaluation of the university and high schools is the unfavourable ratio of permanent staff teachers and external associates. Schools should implement a more active policy of professional teaching staff training, including pedagogical training and encourage improvement abroad. Moreover, higher universities should think carefully about their enrolment policy so that the number of students enrolled is in line with available space and available personnel resources. Inconsistencies in the duration of related study programmes in different institutions, which further make mobility more difficult, the dominant of studies in the social and humane field especially in the field of economy, and in general too many students, particularly in economic and legal studies. The rate of registration quotas and the increase in the number of study programmes are not proportionate to the employment of new teachers and administrative staff. And by pointing to problems, we think that the report also mentions and emphasises that the National Council for Higher Education also positively assesses some of the activities and initiatives that should contribute to improving the quality of higher education. We will choose only some such as the adoption of a new Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education as a framework for future external quality assurance procedures, and the introduction of state graduateship as the only way to enter a higher education system that avoids the possibility of enrolment of students to higher schools, especially private, university and university without an appropriate selection process, which alone contributes to the quality of enrolled students and enables transparency of the whole process. As I pointed out earlier this report we think it can serve as good help to solve the mentioned problems and the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68064	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68065	My colleagues and colleagues, actually when we're discussing a report or a body report, then we're actually discussing how that body works. In my court, this body has failed legally, strategically, even if you want technical. It has failed legally because it has failed to fulfil the basic legal obligations. It did not bring a network of higher universities, the proposal for a network of higher universities, although the Parliament also committed that body to such a thing. It did not propose once during its operation to the Assembly the allocation of budgetary resources between science and higher education, to which Article 8 of the existing law obliges it. It has not informed of its meeting with the National Council for Science, and according to the same article, it is mandatory to do so at least once a year. And so it seems to me that in the key elements, the legal elements that the Parliament has passed, which the Parliament has prescribed, which it requires of its own body did not carry out. Secondly, this body is responsible for the higher education strategy, for the key activities of a society, for the vision, for the critical analysis of the existing and the vision of how to optimise the system. That body didn't do it. There is no concrete proposal on what to do to make the system different in the near and perhaps immediate future, nor did it actually show any ambition in this regard. The third at technical level two, one predecessor and one predecessor were talking about what was not in the report and what should be. Different from what the National Council was supposed to do and what it didn't do. We mentioned some things on the board. I will repeat them here, because members of the Parliament need to know. This national council should actually be a body of incentives, how to change the poor qualification structure of the Croatian population, how to speed up study efficiency and how to actually improve better quality of study, and here we actually have two elements that the National Council should take into account and did not take into account. The Bologne process was built on a single lever called Quality Assurance Insurance, whether it's a Quality Assurance or a Quality Assessment. For Quality Assurance is an appropriate or in fact decisive procedure of external evaluation. We passed the law, and what's going on? In the year when we have 72 new study programs, in the year after the first generation of Bologna students end, we externally evaluate one tenth of the entire programme in the country. All of us or myself seemed to be actually interested in the effects of the reform on the Bologna process. And we perform the qualification or evaluation of a tenth of those programs. Inadmissible. Unbearable. We have the first generation of students of the Bologna process, we yell at all our mouths from opposition, my first-graders end up with inadequate qualifications, end with a qualification that doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, the Bologna process is more or less organised to create a basis for possible labour mobility. We give the first-graders a qualification with which they will not be able to get a job anywhere, so they cannot be employed in Croatia today either. The National Council for Higher Education neither mentions the problem, nor mentions the problem. The financial situation is actually on the verge of endurance. I once said it in the Parliament, but it seems we haven't remembered it, I'll do it again. Croatia singles out 3 thousand 200 euros per year per student, Slovenia 6 and a half thousand, Austria 10 and a half thousand, Scandinavian countries over 20 thousand, study costs are less than equal, so they are in all but personal incomes. There's no speech on that in the National Council's report. Doctoral studies are of strategic importance to all high-tech technologies. Croatia compared to the EU 27, so there are newly arrived members, colleagues and colleagues with one-six postgraduate students in the system compared to these others, on the average of the European Union, one-sixth, and this is a data that is terribly worrying. There's no speech on that in the National Council report. And when you add it all together, it's actually premises, so the relationship with the economy has already been about employment, employment strategy, contacts with employers, etc. So there's already been a speech, there's no point in me repeating it. The premises are quite clear to me, and I don't understand some of the concepts that follow from that. We as the body that passed the law, we as the body that we appointed the National Council for Higher Education are obliged to tell the National Council for Higher Education which does not work well, and what should be done better. If the National Council for Higher Education fails to comply with the legal obligations, then we cannot accept that report, and we must consider what to do next with the National Council in order to start fulfilling the legal obligations. If the National Council is a strategic body, and there is no strategic thinking, then we as a Parliament must tell our body what is not good and what should be done to make it better. It is, colleagues and colleagues, two key areas in today's world, the science we discussed last week, and the higher education we are discussing today. None of these areas have strategic considerations. These two areas are not working together at this national and strategic level, and it seems to me that both national councils have failed, and not for the petty, but for the large. Therefore, in no way can I support such a report, and I appeal to colleagues and colleagues if anything else and to your common sense. Think about whether, what will be the consequence if you give your voice to such reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68066	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68067	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to base my replica on that part of Flega's presentation, which is about responsibility and the role of the National Council for Higher Education. Namely, one sentence in this report, which states that the mentioned phenomenon, which refers to the establishment of 30 new higher universities, says the mentioned phenomenon cannot be seen exclusively in a negative context, should be borne in mind that it occurred in circumstances of a strategy which clearly sets out criteria and priorities in the development of higher education, so the proposal and establishment of new higher schools and studies was the result of circumstances rather than real strategic thinking. I think this is about very difficult grades, so the National Council, and it's about trying to transfer a ball of responsibility exclusively to the government, which we think, given the role and tasks that the National Council has, at the very least, is not correct. We have defined ourselves as a state for a knowledge society, we all believe that knowledge is one of the key parameters of the competitiveness of the national economy, and we also think that the important role and responsibility of the National Council is in this. If the state had set it up to help, to be logistics, it would have given it instruments. Therefore, and the responsibility to participate in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68068	Answer, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68069	I think that the National Council must be one extra-party institution and that any critical objection by the National Council whether it relates to the work of the Government, whether it refers to the work of the Parliament if it is justified and reasoned, is welcome. However, this observation is, in fact, self - critical. The National Council says there is no strategy, and it is responsible for the adoption of the strategy. Differently speaking, the National Council says it did not create a basis for its normal and legal functioning. But on the other hand, the National Council is lulling us into one illusion, telling us how potent we are, so one year we're producing 30 new study programs. We as the National Council have positively evaluated and proposed to the government, the minister has performed a pass, all agreed. Well, we're a strong country, we enter the knowledge society. Or, in no sentence does the National Council refer to the terrible ingenuity of the Croatian nation and the Croatian scientific spring. The vast majority of university professors produced today are between 32 and 40 years old. Why? Because institutions have not done their job including the National Council. Which when it starts to scream, and the vast majority of colleagues and colleagues of these newly-roasted university professors have not seen the foreign university one step at a time. So we nationalized science. And that's why the National Council is responsible. I don't think at all, and I agree with my colleague Doric that the National Council is not alone responsible, but the National Council is certainly responsible for not considering the shortcomings, which did not warn about the shortcomings and did not actually propose a solution to these shortcomings. And secondly, the National Council has at least 2 modes of operation, 3 actually. Co-operation with the body he named it is the Croatian Parliament, co-operation with the Government as executive authority and actually the public. No National Council has ever called in public. However, some conclusions and records of the National Council could not be read on the Internet for months. And that's why the National Council is responsible. A colleague, Kovacevic, we fully agree, is only a question of whether we will vote equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68070	Thank you. We also have a replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68071	I reported the closing word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68072	Oh, well, thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68073	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Council. The 2009 report, which I consider to be of particular quality, should be accepted especially if we take into account some of the criticisms that have been given here, which have not taken into account that in the 2009 report, when this council composition began to work only in April if I am not wrong. So this council has assumed great responsibilities and responsibilities, it was named in February 2009, it took over in April. So it couldn't have been in eight months for which the report corrects everything that we'd like to correct, and that's the framework in which I'm thinking of discussing it. The Council has a huge responsibility and a task, which is that everything we've done over the past few years in higher education is in order. In short and plain terms, so we've opened 16 universities, 30 high schools, not to mention universities. Of course, after the rain there are mushrooms, but only those that are good and good survive. The ones that make the rot must fall off. The Council has a huge task of using internal and external surveillance to identify what is good and what is bad over the next period. Today there's a whole series of things that are negative. Higher schools, vocational schools are not related to the needs of the economy, to the needs of social development. As we can see from this report, there is often no communication between the economy and professional schools at all. You don't follow what happens to graduate students, you don't follow their success, you don't see what kind of response is needed for that profile. Second, this report shows that the spaces are mostly inadequate. Often in many universities there is no library, no room for teachers, no classrooms. From this review, we see, for example, that it is not a good situation with neither the teaching staff. We see that the teaching staff is in a constant working relationship with the minority, in a large minority. That often those who are in the supplemental work cannot, of course, compensate for the quality of a full - time teacher because his responsibility is completely different. We see problems in progress, we see problems in the number of scientific workers at higher education schools. I'll do it, for example. Here mentions the problem of the number of students to one teacher. With some global average of 16 students, Croatia has about 20 in most of its higher education institutions, but unfortunately there are extremes such as one listed here that has as many as 60 students on one teacher, which is absolutely unacceptable. I've had the opportunity for the past 30 years to go through different frameworks of the education system, so 30 years ago I had a group of 120 students, and today I have a group of 24 to 26 students. It's something you can't compare at all. This second course must become a goal. What's quite worrying is that even some high-level educational institutions that have tradition and generally accepted quality don't have enough scientists with scientific calling, don't have enough scientific calling. I will mention only an example of the University of Zagreb. 642 teachers, a third in permanent, two-thirds in the supplemental working relationship have produced over the past 5 years only 22 scientific works quoted in... Absolutely insufficient, absolutely inadmissible and should certainly be more stringent in controls to impose a much higher level of education, and in particular the scientific advancement of these teachers, as of course the quality of future graduate students depends on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A large number of teachers unfortunately travel between different universities, different universities and different high schools so they call them traveling teachers, I long called them wandering teachers. For example, in Zagreb, you have several 10-fold university professors who are professors in Rijeka, Split or Osijek. I don't mind that, but I wonder what the quality of their class is. You have a private health care facility in Zagreb which is a teaching base of the University of Rijeka, whether it is because of these students and the quality of the course or because of the rise of the rating of the private institution. You have examples of a teacher visiting three universities in one week giving lectures. I think that, just in the next period of the Council and the Quality Agency, we should take into account and give credit to those who really deserve it. What is also unequal are the conditions of advancement, lately the practice of going to a second university is being applied because the conditions are much smaller, to go to a doctorate at another university within the same university because the conditions are much milder. The terms should really be evened out. In my medical school, I can really doctorate only great minds today, because to report a doctoral shop, for the topic of doctoral dissertation, it must... have published work with a high-action index, which is actually a doctorate in small. So they go to other universities which is not good, because it is not only a potential drain of personnel but it is also a potential avoidance of those conditions that we must impose and impose if we want our higher education institutions to enter the European environment tomorrow to produce people who are competitive. Not because they go to work outside, but because they produce a competitive product, to give Europe a competitive service, so that Croatia becomes a European country. And that is why I think that in one of the most important tasks, which is the revision of all the licenses or relicences that follow should significantly raise the criteria. These criteria should be so high that, unfortunately, the abolition of those who do not meet is introduced. I will end up here with all the praises of this Report only one high school of business, I will not name it, which has been operating for nine years, and which in the annual report of the National Higher Education Council has been under control with the following conclusions, I read: "High Business School has no difference between regular and extraordinary students, there is no appropriate student practice, there are no notes on the participation of students in the field course, there is not enough documentation on the examination of students' skills for college and final exams. There is no appropriate library, insufficient amount of professional literature, the system of notification of potential students is not appropriate (incomplete information), there are no certain learning outcomes, most often a lack of follow-up results at all. There is no specific procedure for changing colleges, not clear enough system for monitoring the quality of teaching, not enough clear system for monitoring practical teaching, no possibility of exchanging... materials or internal communication on the Internet. The network sites are not updated, the data on teachers is incomplete." I'm not going to quote any further, what can I say? That school received instructions on how to keep working, but she continued her work. I don't think schools like this should continue their work, although they benefit financially from the local community or the private owner, but they produce unskilled students and I think they should exclude from higher education wings that can be said briefly and clearly "pay money, so they'll give you a diploma". I think that in this and the current mandate, the Council is responsible for all that we have well planted to grow into high-quality European universities and therefore should be given support, not to interfere with their work, but to give full support to keep them going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68074	Thank you, we have six replicas. The first one is Mrs. Gyurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68075	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what I'm hearing. Hebranga, the presentation of the university professor, what should be the exposure to reality and science. Yeah. Unfortunately, I'm sorry my colleague is laughing, but her disastrous speech, I don't know what her students are, in what way they absorb knowledge. I would like to thank all our teachers and teachers, all the teachers and academics who have given us our knowledge from school to high school. But so there's no money to pay, so they're gonna give you a degree, I'd like to talk to you about something else, and they asked me to, and it's about State's graduation. It is a major matter of state graduation and it is finally a major step in improving the quality of education in Croatia, it is reflected in the fact that the introduction of standardized state graduation exams sets clear national standards for the evaluation of school achievements of students at the end of 4 years of schooling and education. The biggest innovation compared to the previous way of applying to high school is evident, of course, in the fact that the overall process of applying to a high school takes place exclusively online or via the Internet, it is public and transparent. In fact, when we talk about state graduation and high school enrolment through the national information system, we have to say that this project needs to be seen through two points. One as a strong anti-corruption measure and as a project that has brought major financial savings to the state and families, which is the most important thing for students who want to enroll or join higher education. Its anti-corruption feature is reflected in the fact that the system is completely public and transparent, that all candidates have equal chances of entering the desired programme or study, that the ranking lists are public, to see transparently who is above and who is below. Just one more sentence, it's in the interest of our graduates, I ask you nicely, but also what is sometimes taken in doubt that it's not good, and also the savings are great, no more travel, he line is done. What I would like to say in the end, it is clear to all of us in Croatia that everything the national adjective SDP wears and the coalition will not support this, and it will not support this, and that should be clearly said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68076	Mr. Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68077	Mr. Hebrang, I am extremely pleased with your debate. I liked her very much because it was actually a very persecutive and measuring reflection on the state of things. A persecutive and measuring reflection on what was supposed to be in the report and it wasn't. So it seems to me that these are the failures of the report, not its positive sides. Secondly, I think that the National Council never, as no strategic body, begins from the beginning, but works in continuity. The new mandate of the National Council is therefore the mandate of only one half of the National Council and should be kept in constant order. And those shortcomings that I've made, I think they're real flaws that just stick their eyes out. But my colleague Hebrang has two questions, so I'd be happy if you could answer me. One of your findings is that the National Council has a very difficult task of putting order into the education system. Does that mean there's a mess now? And secondly, since the college from which you've made the decision that the results of the graduation don't meet the needs and don't assess realistically, would you be aware of why your colleague twilight is so publicly polimising with you and with your college?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68078	Mr. Andrew Hebrang's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68079	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. I support everything that my colleague twilight said. State high school is great. And the fact that some universities have additional demands is their legitimate right and I see no reason that the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb does not give additional demands, which does not mean that the state's graduation is bad. The other way around. After national graduation, we'll have a lot less work to do to pick out future good doctors. I remember when I took the medical exam a few decades ago, we even passed the I.Q. test. I don't know if that's why my generation of doctors is very good, but maybe that's one of the reasons. As far as the council is concerned, I've said the council works in continuity and it has continued the work of the previous council here. But this council couldn't do everything we wanted in eight months of work. The system grew several years. Let's let the council of time study it thoroughly, peacefully, and lead to a path that I'm sure exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68080	Mr. Dragan Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68081	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to say something about this part where Mr. Hebrang was talking about the quality of teaching. In fact, here in the report it is observed, "It is obvious that quality thinking was not sufficiently the subject of their profession, so universities, units are only in the establishment of high school quality assurance, the whole activity related to internal quality assurance comes down to conducting student surveys that often require no consequences for teachers." In fact, I have to say something here that these polls actually detimise professors, that these student polls are actually aimed at reducing the quality of teaching and that they are the cause of reducing the quality of teaching. Namely, why do I say that? These surveys and polls in the polls are provided by students who, according to the Bologna, are mostly studying in a way to take exams as per tape, so where we do not have a small number of subjects and a lot of time for real study, consultation of literature, study, etc. but teachers who have made an effort to make university textbooks and put a lecture in PowerPoint and introduce novelties etc. It is clear that these students are not fond of them and that they are properly getting weaker grades. Therefore, it also affects those teachers who are trying to reduce the quality of teaching in order to literally equate to those students who have a problem running exams again and to get a higher grade in student evaluation. Therefore, some fundamental changes need to be made there. This method of grading the quality of teaching is simply not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68082	Thank you. Mr. Andri Hebrang's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68083	Thank you very much. Here is a colleague, Kovacevic, who cited one of the key problems that exist in the teacher's evaluation. I personally have student studies for 30 years, so until they were ordinary at all, let alone legally binding and I can say from this great experience the following. The students of two things valorize, one is the quality of teaching, one is the teacher's relationship to the student, but unfortunately the other is whether I got through as quickly as possible and quickly as possible. It is the natural tendency of what fellow Kovacevic was saying, the natural expectation of students. And that's why I think the student grade of teachers should be just a small part of valorizing its value because it's actually a reflection of the student's prism. A student in all honours and freedoms of their evaluation and expression, but he is not aware of what awaits him in the profession and what is best for him from this teaching. And when I ask him to know my anatomy even if he's 5 years old and 3 years ago, he doesn't know why I'm looking for it. But as soon as he gets into practice, he sees right away. So, the student still can't see all the consequences of his education, so I think that prism needs to be corrected a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68084	Thank you. Replica. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68085	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Hebrang agrees with you in your part when you spoke about the National Council report that we should discuss it in the context of these eight months, which really speaks of how I expect the National Council to bring here in 2010 a whole series of proposals and strategies and measures and even some frameworks and even propose a network of studies because this is very important. And all these discussions that have been conducted here must not be considered as having been fully carried out by the National Council. It certainly pointed to very important problems in higher education. So I'm going to say from what you've instructed as an example, that by analyzing me this report of yours really prompted the thinking of the following. Students and some teachers, which is found in several higher schools, are not familiar with the binary system of education and qualifications they receive after completing their studies. Speaking and referring to my colleague Kovacevic, I would not agree that students are critical of their own personal interests or views through these surveys, but I am amazed that 7 teachers at the mentioned high school who are in a permanent working relationship, and the reports show this, are not fully familiar with differences, colleagues with differences between university and professional studies, titles of qualifications. So people who surrender and work there, who are the only ones who are constantly employed and carry the burden of education. That's disturbing. I think schools like this after this analysis, so it was conducted in the way that Kovacevic said, they should automatically get a work ban because then we will have the following, yes and students, and I have met a few, who do not even know how long their education at high school or what they have finished because they thought that one semester before they graduated and didn't know that they had to enroll that semester. Today those colleagues are getting a degree, becoming highly educated citizens...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68086	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68087	And participate in competitions as right as with all university studies. It's a problem that needs to be resolved soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68088	Answer, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68089	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Roksandić, mentioned a major problem, which is the evaluation of the degree in practice. The evaluation of the degree in practice takes place in countries that have long made the reorganization of their higher education for decades and when you graduate from America, you know exactly where you can get a job, which means that diploma, what your skills are, your competences and your skills. It will take years to spend in Croatia. This means the most valuable assessment of the consequences of higher education is the market. That market is, of course, in our crops, not functional, and I believe that the council is on the right track, the more the Quality Agency is going to work to re-licence, and I believe that we are on the right path to support.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68090	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68091	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Hebrang, you were talking about changing or changing colleges, so students. Maybe it's about what you just said last time, in your last act, you said the evaluation of the degree in practice. But no one here speaks nor is there a word in this report that several hundred, several hundred Croatian students with a place of residence in the Republic of Croatia are studying, so from border areas, mainly Posavina, southern Slavonia na, I will not tell questionable universities or universities in Brcko, Orasy, Tuzla, Bihać, I am talking about this second part of Croatia and they are nowhere in this council's report. But that is still a problem because these students, when they return, also have diplomas that are fully recognised in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68092	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68093	Thank you very much. Comrade Hebrang, you spoke and noticed that the report did not match the external evaluation findings with the final evaluation and listed several shortcomings of a high-level business school which is contrary to the final assessment. So I would just let me, supplement your thinking and say that it's a high-level business school in Visnjan, which is listed by 16 negative points, and no positive, no positive item, and the final assessment is to issue a permit to carry out the activity. Well, we're not gonna, as my colleague once told me before, have a university and a business school under every plum. That doesn't lead to quality. Also, you said that individual university professors traveled from city to city and became more tourist travellers than university professors. Of course, when they don't teach at their mother's college. If you can see how many classes they taught at the Faculty of origin, then you can see that they can go to 8 other universities throughout Croatia. There's one such case, but it would be good for the Council to run an analysis of all professors who teach outside of parent colleges and see if they're capable of doing all the physical work they're doing. And just like you were talking about equating the criteria. So while at one university it takes 1,400 pages to learn by heart to pass one exam at the same university only in another city it becomes recreation. It is not good for the higher education of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68094	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68095	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Maric, of course, when in a short time trying to blow up a high education system like we did then it takes a lot of time to bring it into order and correct it. As for the wandering professors running from college to college, you say the question of their quality. I think they can teach quality, but it's hard to understand because they run so much from college to college that they're blown up, and when a man's blown up, he doesn't talk easy. Well, I think that's gonna get rid of our council, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68096	Thank you. It is up to debate Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear President of the Council with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Since those who come only to the vote are nervous, I'm going to cut a little short because they're making a riot in the assembly five minutes as long as they get here. This report tells us that the council has had a huge job, that the agency has had a huge job, that the agency has contributed there, but it has also opened our eyes when it comes to higher education in the Republic of Croatia. It opened our eyes to demystify some who are trying to impose themselves as facts in the Republic of Croatia, and everything under cover of building a knowledge society. This shows that many of the problems that are not on all institutions have been observed, but are generally seen by most institutions, that they do not have the right spaces, that many studies do not have the necessary number of teachers, that many studies do not have the necessary number of teachers, that they do not have the necessary scientific knowledge, that they do not have the necessary number with scientific and teaching knowledge, that there are no selections in enrolment, that there are too many students. Imagine, a total of 40,000 students are enrolled in Croatia annually, while a total of 32000 students are born in Croatia, and 37,000 children are born in Croatia. Obviously, this is due to an unconstitutional approach to higher education. Not even programs are appropriate. Study programs are literally made up and invented. 675 study programmes in the Republic of Croatia, so if it were for China, it would be too much. Does the Republic of Croatia need 675 studies, study programmes. Do we even analyze what society needs and what we study and educate our people for? Obviously, that analysis is missing. Total number of components at universities, universities, high schools 161. More than the former state had a municipality. The calls were inappropriate, there was a word here about it. Imagine calling the manager. And how nice would it sound to call the director, calling the manager. Well, he's not the call manager. The manager is a function. The function is assigned, and knowledge is acquired. And imagine if we did, and there's more and more management studies and managers. So imagine, management is discipline for God's sake. Imagine if we have now, open up the pass for study for microeconomics, study for statistics, and then we have a stats manager or statistician. We're going in the wrong direction. And then immediately from study to director. Great! You don't need experience. The function needs experience. There are some universities where there are unlimited number of exams. They don't even record whether the students passed or didn't. He goes out for a written exam, doesn't pass, but they don't have records and he can go out as much as he wants. And that's what you're doing great, and you're just going to have to do it right now and analyze all of this that you wrote about someone doing something about it. Extraordinary students are in their rightful sense necessary for those who study with work, and it is evident how you found that most of the extraordinary students do not study with work at all, but are regular, and are actually using only the privileges of the shortened class. It is also evident that many studies bring together regular and extraordinary students, to teach them together, to perform exercises, just to shorten the clocks. You noticed that some studies give too little written and oral exams. You've noticed that the number of teachers of students is inappropriate. On average, as many as 60 students per teacher. Imagine in Africa 20, and in our 60. Even at one institution, 68 students on one teacher, and the average European in Europe of 13 students on one teacher. We have 60 in Africa 20. All this points to us that higher education in Croatia has turned in one unwanted direction in recent years. The society knows that unwantedness is not undesirable. A society of knowledge yes. No one happier than us if we build a knowledge society. But not a society of diplomas, a society of knowledge. Unfortunately, we multiply and have those institutions and universities all the honours of highly organized highly professional. There are those who should be commended. But there are those who need a spot-on pass, a spot-on number, to prevent this path to higher education. Because what we are, we're going to come up with is that it's harder to get a biology grade in seventh grade or in second grade geography than to pass five high school exams. And as many as some in high schools wouldn't have passed, they wouldn't have two from biology in the second grade of high school or in the first grade of high school because it really became a recreation to some institutions. I think seriously this problem should be addressed and the higher education system should be aired out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68098	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68099	My colleague Marić and I almost fully agree with you. A big part of what you've been saying is actually thinking about a lack of system and actually, in some way, creating a premise for overcoming these shortcomings. But you were talking about what wasn't in the report. It should be different in the report, but there are no such considerations. That's one thing. Second. It seems to me that despite the fact that we have long since declared our acceptance of Eurostat, the European way of statistics which, among other things, knows two categories... full-time and head counting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So real people. We're talking about, I can't find any data anywhere, and somehow they're the pervasive, self-inflicted attempts to calculate it turns out that we have a lot more than a full time-out. So one and a half hours per person. Differently speaking, they travel around, they exceed their standard and do not engage in scientific work. So, and that's something that fits into your thesis that we're very bad at standing with the staff and traveling a lot more than dealing with their parent institution, what their primary tasks are and scientific research activities are, and that's also something I'd expect in strategic thinking. This is a body, the National Council for Higher Education, which needs to be strategically considered system and proposed to improve it. I'm convinced and we're convinced that it hasn't happened, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68100	Thank you. Answer Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68101	Comrade Flego, I haven't heard anything you've said since the marbles of those who make up the quorum of individuals. Something just in the beginning that you told me that you told me that I was talking about something that wasn't in the report. I'm afraid that's all I understand. No, I've been saying everything in the report and talking about it exactly on the basis of the report's findings. But for what you're still talking about university professors who are traveling the truth that they're missing a find in universities and colleges, because there are cases that the professors personally know a few cases not one hour of lectures were held in their mother's college in last year 2010. Not one and they're getting paid neatly. There's a dozen of them. And as for quality, I talked a little bit more about insufficient quality in high school and business schools. The same case is similar in universities too. So let's just remember what the Faculty of Economics and Traffic and what they produced, then we can figure out what quality it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68102	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh is up to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68103	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So let us, regardless of what is really the time to move to the vote, but I would still like to look back on this report, because exactly the National Council for Higher Education is one of the important bodies that it has formed and, which corresponds to this Parliament, and normally, the Council expects that this council will give some strategic shifts in the system of higher education, and the goal is to educate experts who will contribute to the recovery and development of this Croatian economy, which is normally in one major difficulty. However, the Council's report found that this very strong increase in the number of new studies was conducted without strategic thinking and planning. All of this I believe leads to one domino effect, poor education and the exit of immature experts who are unable to normally fulfil the assigned task that educated people and completed higher schools should give to this economy, which is to go into recovery and development of this economy. This is certainly more important than normal imports of some workers or experts outside our country, if we can produce them ourselves. I'll list a few of those bad steps in the system of this higher education. A large number of us say new universities and universities, but also universities. Normally, it is one of the problems that arises and does not carry out their task, and in the report itself, it has been observed that there are also private universities, which we have 3 which are not characteristic of Western European countries, but also of certain universities. We now have a chance to see that on the Adriatic coast had five universities, on the continent of 2 universities. I don't think a university schedule like that is adequate for both the number and the population and the possibility of schooling. The crown is certainly every university, there should be doctoral studies and the creation of experts who will thus be the most mature to work and create certain newspapers in the development of our country. The second thing that is bad and that is also consistent is the question of the dominant study of social and economic professions. I think there were good indications here about it, so here's my colleague Maric's talk about managements like this, like, normally, that all this results and that we have a little demand for such experts, and at the same time in some competitions there are also a large number of applications or a large competition just like this... I'm an expert. [[You don't understand.]] One of the bad steps that is happening is certainly a large number of new high schools, high schools, and growth of enrolment quotas. So the number of study groups doesn't follow the rise of university teachers. Normally, here, what is already spoken of from the question of flying teachers to the unfavourable number of teacher relationships could be re-emboweled. We're below the world average, but this data 1 to 60 is certainly something that's frightening and alarming and that we wouldn't be able to accept. I think that in this part of the National Council, it would certainly have to go through its own corrections to make such colleges, i.e. high institutions and close. Then a matter of spatial problems. Normally, it's easier to open studies for various managements than those where labs, cabinets, conducting experiments, exercises, etc. are needed. And it's also one of the bad parts. And in the end, I would ask myself and what is the purpose of all these institutions, if they are not linked to the economy, if they do not as such produce the result of the recovery of that economy. Normally, in this part, the lack of a network of universities that should have already been carried out by this national council is one of the main jobs to be done. That is why I believe that in the SDP, we believe that the National Council has failed to fulfil its task, so we cannot accept a report like this normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68104	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. And that takes five minutes, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68105	Let's let them hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68106	We can't force anyone to listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68107	I don't know. If we need a megaphone, we can use it. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I didn't mean to speak today, but I was encouraged by the discussions that followed, so here I applied for the closing word. I love Mr. Maric's presentation, and the proof that he's right is that many students like mustache pioneers, mustache students, I don't mean anyone here personally, finished their studies so that in one day they passed five exams. They're really talented and they're really out to say the political elites that made it possible for them, regardless of their study skills, the professor's seriousness and all that, even though they're mentioned here and flying teachers, flying teachers, but here's how our people are talented, especially those in politics, and they pass five exams in one day. What kind of studies are they, I wonder? What kind of colleges are these? What kind of high school is that? What is this strategy that produces completed experts in professional studies that are actually in heaven, on earth, and without occupation, and without calling, and without work. So, from college to the stock market. There's nothing left for them. Today in the Republic of Croatia, there is no record of how many students I have already said studying at universities in neighbouring BiH. They say less arranged, not to insult the neighbouring country, less orderly than ours, but who has universities in Brcko, Orasje, Bihac, University or University of Tuzla where our Posaviaci from southern Slavonia graduates from their schools and have the same right when they finish, so their diplomas are valid as those who ended up with us. That's what I'm asking because of what's been said here, Mr. Šetić, about that there's a university on both sides of Učka. There were no obstacles or walls that Cain would build for football fans when it came to the University of Pula, then he didn't raise a wall. But for the University of Slavonski Brod, which should at least enter the grid plan, let it be 10 years, it has its basis. It is also because of these students I spoke about who are studying over in BiH, but also 1350 students as many as are present in Slavonski Brod at 2 universities and Slavonski Brod University. About the student home which has 120 seats and that Slavonski Brod is the sixth largest town in Croatia and the second in Slavonia which has therefore a ploted Student Campus and therefore creates preconditions at least spatial, and in 10 years they can be created and to say also human resources, teachers, teachers and teaching resources that gentlemen from the National Council take this into account. And I'm telling you very seriously, I'm not going to say harshly, that in the criteria in which some colleges might fall off because they really don't meet any spatial or human criteria in that network that's going to be a new network to turn on and that something new opens not only to end as someone said here. And that's to keep in mind the need for the University of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-11-0.u68108	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. And a report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2009. The 2009 National High Education Council's financial report. The applicant was the National Council for Science and Higher Education. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "A report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2009 and the Financial Report of the National Council for Higher Education for 2009 is accepted." Let's please get involved and vote on these conclusions. The result? These conclusions were accepted by the majority of votes, 77 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 11 against. On Wednesday, ladies and gentlemen, on 1602, the extension of this session was at 9.30 minutes with the agenda item Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 June 2009 to 30 June 2010. Proposer of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Have a nice weekend and the rest of your days. Thank you.
