ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76141	Dear MPs and MPs, I wish you a good day and we begin today's morning session. Honorable representative and president of the HDZ club Andri Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76142	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the club, please take a 15-minute break to discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76143	The topic we need to discuss is the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76145	Thank you very much. I'm taking a 15-minute break. Thank you very much. ... Let me begin by welcoming the representatives of the associations from the Homeland War and welcome here to the Croatian Parliament. [[Home is not saved.]] We will discuss the proposal for a constitutional law on the amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 842. [[Applause.]] But before that, he'll say a few words on behalf of the club president of the club, the distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang, because he asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I particularly welcome the representatives of the organizations of the defenders who have increased this debate today with their presence in this higher house that exists, which endures and which lasts exclusively thanks to them. Without our defenders, there wouldn't be this High House either, there wouldn't be this debate today, there wouldn't be a Croatian state either. So at first, we wanted to warn about the seriousness and importance of today’s subject. Today's topic is that the rights of Croatian defenders rise to the level of constitutional law. Why? For what? Because that's what the Croatian defenders were looking for. Any objections about the pre-election trick, since she did not ask for any party, have not been sought by the government. This is a proposal from Croatian defenders who sought at a difficult moment for them, a moment that took place two months ago and in which they felt humiliated. This is a symbolic act that costs the Croatian state, Croatian citizens and citizens and Croatian budgets nothing. This is a symbolic act that should return to Croatian defenders what this society did not give them, which all states and societies of all countries that have bloodyly chosen their freedom. And there is not a single country that has fought its freedom in war, especially in an unequal war like our Liberation War, which does not give its defenders due respect at the highest social and political level. Did we give it to our defenders? Of course not. In all countries there are cultural monuments to defenders except in the Croatian state. In all countries, there is a cult place where foreign delegations lay their crowns, all of them lay down and pay their respects to the defenders who are responsible for the creation of the country, in all countries of the world except Croatia. In all countries of the world, there is a positive attitude towards defenders, founders of the state, in the media. In our media 90 and over 90% of the texts, the videos, the inscriptions speak negatively of the defenders. In all countries of the world there are textbooks that raise defenders to the deserved level except in the Croatian state. The climate which, according to the defenders, was negative, by adopting and voting this Law can be turned into a positive climate and we can honor these honorable people by telling them you deserve recognition at the level of the Constitutional Law. We are not underestimating the rights of any other group. All other groups in Croatian society have protection and Croatian Constitution and all laws. But had it not been for the Croatian defenders and the social group had no place to exercise their rights, because there would be neither the Croatian Constitution nor the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian Government nor the Croatian state. And so I ask you not to repeat that sad scene from the first part of the vote the saddest events in the twenty-year history of Croatia were when for the 20th anniversary of the Croatian state defenders for their law received barely 77 votes. That's not what they deserve. Defendants don't ask for mercy. They're just asking for honor and dignity. And our duty is historic, political, so if you'd like to give it to them. So I call upon you all, and those who voted last against and who were abstentioned. And of course those who voted yes. Let us raise our hand for the Constitutional Law on Defence, because the vote for Croatian defenders is a vote for Croatia. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76148	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76149	I'd like to correct an esteemed colleague of Hebrang, who probably in the heat of this speech gave a grade that I don't think stands, and it's roughly. In all countries of the world, it is due honour to their defenders, or veterans except in the Croatian state. I don't think that stands. I think these 20 years where the ruling HDZ party ruled for about 15 years, too. We've come to the level of these most developed countries. That there is much more to be done towards Croatian defenders, but this is not solved by words but by concrete works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76150	Thank you. And now we start with the point - Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 842. Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed this act on the basis of point 2. Decisions establishing the draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vladimir Shakespeare, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76151	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Constitutional Act amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is set out in the provision of Article 149. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be settled by the Constitutional Law, and the consequences that will be raised by the adoption of the Constitutional Law should be said as follows. On the basis of the Decision on Accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the 23rd session of 27 May 2011, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision at its meeting on 17 June 2011 laying down a draft constitutional law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the draft constitutional law proposes that the rights of Croatian defenders be governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws by a two-thirds majority of votes. Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 147. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its Act of 21 April 2011. The rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families are now governed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and has been adopted in a regular procedure with a simple majority of votes. By winning the Homeland War in 1991 to '95. The Croatian peoples and citizens have confirmed their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent sovereign and democratic state. The successful defence in the fair, legitimate, defence and liberating Homeland War, which the Croatian defenders put forward in the first row, was a fundamental prerequisite for the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. This led Croatian defenders to create all assumptions for a coherent development of the Republic of Croatia, as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern world and opens up a number of approaches to this world, political, security, economic and cultural. In line with the historical role of Croatian defenders in the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia, it is assessed that protection of the rights of Croatian defenders should be governed by constitutional law as the organic law of the highest rank in the Republic of Croatia. The role and importance of Croatian defenders is also recognised in the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is complemented by the head of the 1st original basis with the subparagraph of 13 which reads: expressing the thousands of years of national self-resistance and the statehood of the Croatian people confirmed by the sequence of overall historical events in different state forms and by maintaining and developing a state-of-the-art attitude on the historical right of the Croatian people to full state sovereignty, which was evident in the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 1990 and the victory of the Croatian people and Croatian defenders in the fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating Homeland War in '91, '95. The Croatian people have shown their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent, sovereign and democratic state. Furthermore, in light of the accession of the upcoming Republic of Croatia to the European Union as an independent and sovereign state in internationally recognised borders where freedom, equality, respect for human rights and the rule of law are some of the highest values of the constitutional order and the role of Croatian defenders in the establishment and preservation of the Republic of Croatia has invaluable importance and significance. All of the above is a special and additional reason why it is assessed as justified and necessary in the year in which 20 years after the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia proposes to regulate the rights of Croatian defenders by special constitutional law. According to this amendment, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is to be adopted in the procedure prescribed for the adoption of organic laws by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76152	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Defence Minister, family and intergenerational solidarity, Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76153	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I welcome all of you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with special respect, I would like to welcome the 100% Croatian military disabled, representatives of defence associations and on behalf of the Government of Croatia and thank them personally for coming to this debate today about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. I would like to say a few things about this amendment to the Constitution, and that is what my predecessors have said well, but it is worth saying again, that this initiative on the law on the rights of Croatian defenders to be constitutional law is primarily the initiative of Croatian defenders, that just the Croatian defenders and association of defenders from the Homeland War at a meeting held in the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2, 3 months ago proposed that the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders become a constitutional law. This was suggested by Mr. Ivan Psenica, a Vukovar defender, a man who lost his son in the Homeland War, who also passed the Serbian casamats, but everyone else present at that meeting. Of course, defenders and associations cannot propose laws in the Croatian Parliament, so the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, agreed to this initiative, and said she would, of course, put it at the government's session and that the government would support this defence proposal. So I must say that this is not a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but rather a proposal from the Croatian defenders, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported this proposal and I hope, regardless of the current course and procedure, and the non-participation of the work of representatives and clubs in the debate and vote, that on Friday most parliamentary representatives will need to support this proposal. And I am using this opportunity to invite all parliamentary representatives to support this defence proposal because it is a proposal that does not mean any additional rights for Croatian defenders, it does not mean any additional resources in the state budget that should ensure that this Constitutional Law works because this law is in the same scope and as regards rights, but also as regards financial resources, it has practically worked for the past 8 years. So it's not about anything new in terms of rights, but everything remains practically the same as it was and there was only a level of protection of rights raised to a higher level. This does not mean that this law will not be changed in the near or future. He will be able to change, of course, but a broad policy will be needed, I would say, I would say, agreeing on amendments to the law. So, it's not about the law being a constitutional law that can't be changed, it can be changed, but for its change it will be necessary to say broad political consent. And I think it's a good thing that key problems and issues in the country are being discussed and decided exactly that way. And there is no dilemma that defenders and problems related to Croatian defenders, for the victims of the Homeland War are one of the key issues of this country, especially respecting the fact that Croatian defenders are the most responsible for defending and creating an independent, sovereign and tomorrow European Croatia. In particular, in light of the fact that this year we mark the 20th anniversary of Croatian independence and I think we will all agree that they are the most responsible Croatian defenders. Of course, all countries in the world that have had war experience, especially countries that have been victims of aggression such as Croatia, are particularly concerned about defenders, veterans, victims of the Homeland War. And I also have to say that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences applies mainly, and most of it applies to families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities and other categories of victims. And even countries that have lost wars care, of course, about those who participated in the war. And let us never forget the fact that Croatian defenders were part of the victorious Croatian Army and that we should also value that fact. So, not to much longer, to resume is about a proposal from Croatian defenders that does not mean new rights, which does not mean new means, but is primarily an expression of respect and gratitude to Croatian defenders for everything they did during the Homeland War, spilling their blood and their own blood writing the most bright pages of the Croatian historian. And I hope that this debate will also be in this very sense, and above all, respecting Croatian defenders and their work, and that Friday's vote will be just as much, regardless of the political differences that there will be enough votes to make this law a constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76154	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76155	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow presidents and representatives of the defence associations of disabled people, parents, families of the dead, missing and imprisoned, widows, Croatian volunteers, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, I welcome you. The HDZ Club as well as the so far and in this third step ahead of us in the adoption of the Constitutional Law certainly unreservedly supports the adoption of amendments to the Constitution and the declaration of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences by the constitutional category. Just because today, as we heard, 20 years after the independence of the Republic of Croatia, 20 years after the formation of the Armed Forces, after all the victories in defence and liberation, after all the tears, blood and sweats that cannot be charged with anything today, we are obliged first of all to pay our respects to those who are not with us, who died for the Homeland of Croatia, but also to those who today expect to hear who has an opinion about their suffering, about their role in creating, defending and liberating the Croatian Homeland. Today, colleagues and colleagues, all these defense associations as well as the defenders themselves, are waiting to hear that the echo in your hearts and souls and your senses will make their appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament in their conclusions, which were defined on 26 February 2011 at the Police Academy, and then in a request at a meeting in the Government where the Prime Minister accepted, passed on to the Committee on the Constitution, which also with the majority of votes accepted even though there were no attendance, but also the vote of other opposition members of the clubs. As is the case with the Committee in the Constitution and the Committee on War Veterans, where members of the opposition ranks were left behind from this debate, and during the last debate, we saw that there was pain and silence. The question is true whether and whether the HDZ club which asked you to re-evaluate this commendable initiative once again to give Croatian defenders the respect of this symbolic way and to remove any doubt and stigma that you are not against them and that you will not take the same measures that your former counterpart Pandzic took in that unfortunate time of those years when these colleagues in the wheelchair and 60% lost their rights and income, when 4 thousand 280 mothers, widows, parents of children of Croatian defenders died. Do you really think that's what you're gonna do today if we come to power? Is this the way that you do not want to plead in this Croatian House on all aspects of how you experience those who have allowed you to sit in these benches, to be representatives of one political option in the Croatian Parliament, and that today, when we can discuss in this third step a calm tone with a request to work on reason, consciousness, but also respect for the population that certainly has all the merits and which cannot be measured with any other. We can't all be the same in Croatia and we can't all have the same rights. It is the Croatian defenders who selfishly gave themselves and their lives in the defense of the homeland, spilling blood, and there is no material value that can compensate for all those sufferings and all the pains they have experienced. There is no such thing as Mrs Pusic that you would condemn Croatian defenders if they were aggressors in BiH, and you were in America, there is no price that you from the bench would talk about any equal status. There are both parents and mothers and children and widows and disabled. Tell them what you really think today. Although you have repeated many times that these are the aggressors of BiH for you. These were your words, which were remembered, which remained deep in our hearts and in our memory. You can't erase them and you'll never erase them, by anything, in any way that you'd like to remove it. I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, certainly have the right to say and read that these conclusions are in line with the fundamental principles of justice and civil solidarity. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure full protection and care for Croatian defenders and members of their families within the existing laws. But also at the 51st point, we clearly defined the i.e. The perilous population headed by Mr. Psenica, Djura Glogoski as president of 100% of the National War, Mrs. Ned Balog and all those who have accepted this initiative and this conclusion passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia in order to revive. They clearly said "The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families should be consistently implemented without exceptions and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with Article 58 and point 7. Declarations of the Homeland War. It is necessary to become constitutional law in order to preserve the moral dignity, honor and reputation of all Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of the homeland and thus allow any politicisation of the Homeland War in the near future in any political option." This is what Croatian defenders, the victims' population, wrote first of all in their conclusions, as I have said since 26 February 2011. And no one can place a burden or soul on any political option. We have only accepted as a club of HDZ representatives, and today we stand, and in every debate we have called and said loud and clear, what we want and how we want to defend and protect the dignity of the Homeland War and all defenders in general. We can't allow your silence, but say it loud and clear why you don't want to support this defense population proposal, and why does it bother you? Perhaps because you remember 4 thousand 280 items that have been lost in the Administrative Court and which have been paid a billion and a half kuna from the Croatian state budget that are now missing due to the interest, due to damage suffered by Croatian defenders, due to prosthetics and spas that you did not allow them in that time. Is that the attitude towards Croatian defenders? Is this how you want to communicate in the future like Pandzic communicated from 2000 to 2003 by returning Mr. Bestek's prosthetics, holding his hand in his pocket as a local sheriff, not to say some other things as they acted? Is that what we expect tomorrow or do you want to take such a Stigma off yourself and say it loud and clear, we will vote that it is a need, it is a reality, it is an necessity, it is really all together we want to end that Croatian history page with dignity to Croatian defenders from all of us. Let's be honest, let's look into each other's eyes and say they deserve it. The HDZ Club certainly made it clear in each of these three debates held in the Croatian Parliament and today will say and I will announce and stress that on Friday we will seek the individual vote of each of these Croatian MPs to see clearly whether there is power, and I know that there are those people who are moral, who are honorable, who respect Croatian defenders and in your ranks who want to vote on this proposal for constitutional changes and the need for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to become a constitutional category just as the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And why else would it be? Why wouldn't that treasure, as some of the Croatian countries called it, of the national minority, be equal to the treasure created by the Croatian state? Croatian defenders are also mildly countryd and clearly articulate and today expect and listen, waiting to see how you will react to these proposals that are in the third step. Do not talk about equality with children, with women, with workers, with peasants, because this population is the whole set of all Croatian citizens and workers and farmers and women and children of the dead and parents are all covered and everyone in this population. And I can't be the same. They don't live the same, they don't feel the same, they don't experience all the traumas they've suffered through the Homeland War, everything that's in their heads today after the loss of a mate or the loss of both parents. These horrors certainly cannot be imagined by you and you have never depicted them, you have never taken them as real, real and objective, it does not exist in Croatian society, that these are the foundations of Croatian societies which are... And today you have the courage to talk about something different. [[You don't understand.]] So I will remind you that once again, Croatian defenders were really the first to defend their country, to defend their creation, and that we certainly cannot be equal with everyone else. Our right stems from the law, so be the constitutional category for permanence and... Eternal generations, for all those who will learn about the Homeland War as true, righteous, defensive and liberating. [[You don't understand.]] Let these Croatian defenders not be the subject of any more debates that will lead to political divisions. I was very calm last time, consistent and dignified in the plea and desire that went ahead of our club. Today I can't do it anymore, because today I certainly want to point out and I will also point out through a personal debate, but also through the debate through the club all the negativity that has been followed by Croatian defenders through this time, which you are trying to put in this context today, which we can rightly suspect as the club of HDZ advocates, but also Croatian defenders, we can rightly suspect that you are preparing a conspiracy again, so tell us something about it. Say it, and don't just say that we were aggressors, I'm asking you, because it's going to cause even more revolt and rebellion and don't say that we're the same and the same with everyone else because we certainly aren't. We were in Munich, we were in America, we were in the basements, we were where they were supposed to be, unlike those who were not, unlike those who had no part in the vote of Croatian freedom and independence, unlike those who requested the amendment to be a five-point star on the Croatian banner and who, by amendment, wanted to say that the Socialist Republic of Croatia remains. We're not among them. You who recognize yourself probably in my callings certainly know that it was neither honorable nor fair, that it was neither Croatian nor in the spirit of the Croatian people or of all citizens who live today and who are the heritage of Croatia. Surely I and the HDZ Representatives' Club will continue to be on the defender of the homeland and will be for this change in the Constitution in order for Croatian defenders to become a constitutional category. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76156	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76157	Thank you. There's a lot of things being said here. Looks like the campaign's already started. Right away, I was Minister of Racan's Government and I am proud of it, as I am proud of all the moves I've made and it wasn't an unfortunate time to correct here, so it wasn't an unfortunate time like Djakic said. Moreover, these were happy times because we managed to save the Republic of Croatia from the overall political, economic and moral immersion that brought HDZ's until then because you robbed along and across and not that you robbed the '90s...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76158	It's no longer a correction to the quote. Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's no longer a correction to an incorrect assumption. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76159	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209 was injured. The Rules of Procedure where Comrade Pancic did not correct the incorrect allegations but insulted and disrespected. Therefore, I would like to say that his works are visible through 4280 belittled and disfigured.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76160	I would ask you, a lot of potential candidates have applied for the debate today to discuss this important and important issue, so I would ask you for tolerance and respect, absolutely respecting the Rules of Procedure because I will try to really do this to everyone and warn you if you do not stick to the Rules of Procedure. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After this one of the most recent speeches we heard in the Croatian Parliament, I am ever correcting the most recent claim that MP Djakić made, which is also anti-constitutional and illegal, which is that in the Republic of Croatia we are not and we cannot all be equal. It is the foundation of every modern state that all citizens in one country and according to the Constitution and by law are equal and we will be equal and we can be equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76162	Thank you. And now we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First respected representative Josip Djakic. I'm asking everyone to say the article they're referring to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76163	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been re-injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, namely, did not correct the incorrect allegations. Not all of us are equal, national minorities are constitutional categories, Croatian defenders are not, not all others are not categories in the Croatian state and not all of us are equal. That's what I was talking about, and that's why I wanted Croatian defenders to be a constitutional category.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76164	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 209, this is indeed the most recent correction of an incorrect quote and offensive therefore for all of us who are patriots, and it is not true that we are not all equal. Mrs. Pusic, you're a teacher, you should say that we must all have the same rights and God forbid it should happen again from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76166	Thank you. Please take care of the Rules of Procedure, I call again. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76167	Now don't kick me out right now. I mean, I can do it myself. Mr Djakić I am correcting Mr. Djakic's incorrect allegations that the members of all associations here have created the Homeland War. [[Employing Capricorn: Please without any comments, correcting the incorrect quote.]] One association is missing, and these are representatives of the closed and imprisoned Croatian generals. Also, HDZ, which is so concerned about the dignity of the Homeland War, is silent about the Hague court's verdict where the first Croatian president is, quotes as leader of an organised criminal enterprise. That's unacceptable. I wonder where the Head is. Where's Gotovina? Where's Norac? Where is one Valentin Coric from Bosnia and Herzegovina and who sent him there?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76169	I thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76170	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76171	First of all, Mr Djakic learn to pronounce the name Pancic, not Pandjic, so that there is no confusion about the president of HVIDRA Zagreb. Furthermore, you said that defenders deserve our protection, care and dignity you forgot to say that there should also be prison protection, care and dignity, and this refers to those you delivered to The Hague, and filled Croatian prisons and other prisons from General Norc, Brodarac, Milanković, Gotovina, Markac, Glavas,... It's a squishy, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76172	Thank you. It's no longer a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76173	Yes, it is. And there's something else I wanted to say. For equating the national minority with Croatian defenders, therefore in the constitutional category I always thought that we Croatian defenders were the national majority, Mr Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76174	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76175	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 again has been injured where Mr. Grubisic does not correct the incorrect allegations, but calls and insults and disrespects. He should know that in the company of those who are found in warehousings, he should not speak of the rights and protection of those to whom he serves. My colleagues and I have been heartily helping all those who may have been suspected or who have been under any investigation to help them remove all doubts about their innocence.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76176	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76177	According to Article 209 Mr. Vice President Djakic says what I did not say, and especially what he calls and mentions the people who said he was in the stables, and we know who came to the Croatian army and on his back also poured blood for this Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76178	Come on, leave your coats! We will continue to discuss Croatian defenders. It is now time to correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76179	In a whole series of allegations that can be challenged, it is obvious that Djakic, who speaks on behalf of the HDZ Club, reveals in fact the real intention of this, and I will correct only one. A colleague of Djakic, you tried to incorrectly quote Mrs Pusic's words by saying somewhere that the defenders, therefore Croatian defenders, had committed aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is absolutely incorrect because Mrs Pusic made it clear and loud that an aggressive policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina was led by the Croatian Democratic Union. The fact that you want to declare your responsibility and guilt by the general participation of Croatian defenders will never go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76180	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76181	Now the article 209 was injured because a colleague used the opportunity to correct the incorrect allegations in a way that he had deceived the public twice now. So, the first time he said he said something he didn't say, and the second time he defended what Mrs Pusic said unequivocally and what she was known for. Therefore, what we absolutely disagree with is neither in HDZ nor in Croatia nor in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76182	Thank you. Please, don't use the breach of the Rules of Procedure lightly. Dear Representative Vesna Pusic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76183	The same in 209 because if not so liberally used lying then this would not be so liberally used, and you look at the phonogram, and the phonogram says the HDZ's aggressive policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990s where I stand today. And this has caused both this country and the Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76184	Please! It's not an injury. I have to really intervene now. Please don't put anything out for a breach of the Rules of Procedure which is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The same article was re-injured. Mrs Pusic, had it not been for the politics of the HDZ and the politics of the Croatian state today there would have been no sovereign state of Croatia, nor would there have been an independent and sovereign state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because if it wasn't for all that Croatia did in support, listen to me, in support of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatian people based on international recognition and everything else that is... [[Employed Capricorn: Thank you very much, Your Honor.]] Then there wouldn't be anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come on!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76186	Thank you very much. Please! We're at the beginning of a debate. I call on all MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure, because most of these violations of the Rules of Procedure are not actually infringements of the Rules of Procedure, but you use it as a correction of an incorrect quote or as a form of a replica, so please hold on to it. Now it is time to correct the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Agent Djakic, I must say that your entire speech is actually a duplicitous pathetic on the eve of the election. So it's an election campaign. And now I'm gonna focus on what I'm fixing. You said on many occasions that in the Republic of Croatia not all can be equal. And this particular sentence that you have mentioned on many occasions you are violating the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia There he is. [[What's the correction? What are you correcting?]] So Mr Djakic said that in the Republic of Croatia not all can be equal. It is this very sentence that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because Article 14. The constitution says, "Here, I'll read it." This is the meaning of Chapter - Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, where paragraph 2 says: "All are equal before the law." So there can be no equal before the law. That's all. Thank you very much. I fixed that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76188	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76189	Mr. Vice President, article 209 was re-injured where a colleague does not correct but also twists my sayings that I said. I said we weren't all equal in the Republic of Croatia, that we were defending one, that we were in Munich, the third in America, and the fourth in the basement. That's what I was talking about and so on... - Give it up. - Give it [[The speaker is not understood because of the noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76190	Thank you very much. And the final correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76191	I am correcting my fellow Djakic's incorrect allegations that since the two discussions in this topic have been silenced and tormented. He was probably hunting when I talked about it, so because of his personal information, I said and repeat the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders will be protected by the best publication of the defence register without using defenders for pre-election purposes and asked why this topic did not open in June last year when the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was changing. Dear Djakic, if you are confident as HDZ in winning the election, wait for a new assembly of parliaments and then make this change to avoid any suspicion of a pre-election move. And your speech today is only proof of one of your wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76193	You want the Croatian people again... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76194	You've run out of time, Your Honor. Again, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76195	Again, Mr. Vice President was injured in Article 209, where it was not corrected by an incorrect assumption, but it was rudely insinuated and pounced on some kind of cash. I don't know if you're hunting maybe white mice at the bar or anything else, but I'm clear, I spoke unequivocally about my position and attitude of the HDZ club that we're all equal before the law, but as a constitutional category and as defenders we're not all equal, because one of us was defending our Croatian homeland, and the other one was hiding.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76196	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76197	There's no conspiracy for Djakic. Before, Mr. Vice-President, Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the MPs, defenders, presidents of the association. It is clear that everyone here shares the sacrifice with the defenders, their torments, their sufferings, their sufferings, their martyrdom, but respect for them is not shown by one false pathetic, but simply by the truth. These changes, so once again there's no conspiracy, these amendments to this constitutional law, supplemental changes anyway, so I'm not going to quote articles now, but I want an explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution, the new sentence under which the rights of Croatian defenders would be governed by constitutional law, adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws, Article 2 of this Article shall be governed by the majority for the adoption of the constitutional law, on the rights of the Croatian defender referred to in Article 1 of the Constitutional Law, and the two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs. Now the fundamental question is whether these constitutional changes are simply or still necessary. I personally don't think so. I think that the position of Croatian defenders is properly regulated, properly regulated by our Constitution, means the preamble of the Constitution, as well as the normative part. The position of defenders also in my court has been properly regulated by law of defence, or by law, to call it that, which since 2004, if I am not mistaken six or seven times changed, and always certain rights have been established, this leprosy of rights has spread and clearly every time additional funds have been provided in the state budget, and we have always voted for these rights consensually for the lady. Okay, that's all right, especially when it comes to disabled people and families who were killed in the Homeland War. I keep repeating, and one and the other kunas more, and I agree with Mr. Djakic in one sentence, and like you, it hit me with that prosthetic return, and it's entirely relevant whether it's a disabled 80 or 90%. The leg's a leg. The man's leg just isn't there anymore. But it is also true that if I am not mistaken in 2009 after the change of hair and departure of Sanader, there has also been a linear reduction of those pensions for all Croatian citizens above a certain amount, not to mention it now. I say everyone in this country can go home without pay and I don't know what, but the disabled and the families of the victims simply can't feel any material changes in society, and God gives me the slightest political change, and that's why I claim there's no conspiracy. I speak clearly of disabled people all the time, and I talk about the families of the victims. They need maximum protection, and there must be no shame passed by NOB fighters, that they were abolished all the real years of '91. Because the hand of someone who lost that hand in '41. in the Cossara or '43. on Sutjesca and there was the most injured as on the Neretva of the Dalmatians, so the Croats are just as valuable as the hand of any defender who lost his hand in Vukovar in '91. Or defending Miss '93. So the disabled and the families of the victims absolutely everything, and so no one ever mocks these people, as it may have seemed there in the '80s with that syntagm child of a fallen fighter, etc. It's true, and the last time many people said that, and I listened to the boys, the mothers, the girls from the defense associations, every disabled person, every mother would go back to the state budget just so her child wouldn't suffer, just so her child wouldn't come back or not, or be with us on her feet, and that she could continue to create her hands as she unfortunately can no longer from the moment of her wounding and so forth. But the problem with this initiative is next. Maybe it wasn't even politically motivated, but as you show it, it's just a policy pair of exellances. The HDZ has been talking about it all along, so it's a proposal from the Homeland War associations, it's not yours, it's not important now who created these associations, etc., who put people at the head of the association, it's well known, but I think something else is important. So who holds more to the defenders, whether they hold more those who have preserved part of this country's material base or those who have destroyed that material base so that I don't use any broader epithets that were just heard in some replicas. Clearly, some of them may even hold more to those who have given them rights than to those who exercise those rights. It's all legitimate, but where do I see the problem? President, late President Tudjman, for this pay phone in '95, '96. In his famous emissaries, he spoke, mentioning 300,000 defenders. Today there are 500 thousand defenders. '95, '96. There were fewer than 30,000 people with disabilities, today it's 50 and something almost 60 grand. And I should know exactly the number, never mind. The problem is that this status was shared by hand and hat, and it is forgotten on the other hand that reporting is, let's say, now I'm talking about defenders, I'm not talking about disabled people, etc., that reporting to a mobilization call is a matter of loyalty to my country. In one word, it's a civil obligation. The other problem is the abuse of many, and the defenders know it, and those who worked at the Ministry of Defense know it, and we all know it. And the third problem is the economic collapse of the Republic of Croatia. All lately, especially in the government, have been talking about the EU. Well, you're me too... who I was in '91. I dreamt of that Europe. And why, for example, is it not said that more than 140 thousand jobs have been lost since the year of 1.07.2009? That the number of pensioners, workers, is almost the same; that on 5 workers we have 4 pensioners, that in two years of the term of Jadranka Kosor Croatia is in debt as in Racan's 4 or Sanader's 7 years. That Minister Dalic borrows approximately 2 to 2.5 billion kuna each month so that she can maintain this public spending. That only this year to pay off foreign debt means that both states and economies and banks should absolutely be provided if I am not cheating 15.2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76198	You're slowly moving away from the subject. Please return to the subject of the Defense Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76199	So if it isn't, if this data isn't just about being this bill, then I just don't know what it is. It's precisely these figures that come from the essence of this law. No one questions the position of defenders, but the government has, through this economic, through the material position of the Republic of Croatia, questioned not only the position of defenders but also the pensioners and workers and employees, etc. And that's actually the point. Everyone in this country right now can say something's been denied. Well, of course I can say that to the defenders. And I'm afraid that's what's going to happen, unfortunately I'm afraid of it, and more. Because to make it better, I'm afraid it'll be worse. Without giving up, we can only sink, and today is the time after the lost 140 thousand jobs in two years since 1.07.2009 on here when we have the number of pensioners, workers 1 to 1 in order not to simply politicise the positions of the defenders, nor the pensioners, nor the NOB fighters, nor what I know to mothers, pregnant women, etc. What would I be for, like, the same thing? Let's say two-thirds don't sell to national companies. Why are both defenders and associations silent for selling those 7% of INA shares? That, I think, is a far bigger problem than this constitutional proposal. And that's where a lot of people keep their And then what's up? Then the individuals are hitting on that Rambo IV or Rocky IV, and now I don't know which one it is. Just like the economy took care of this government and neither Rocky nor Rambo would have taken it together. So, I understand the political moment and I'm going to say, absolutely, the election is. I understand the delicacy of the subject, however it is not the same to talk about this topic in my Buzet or Istria, Rijeka or Vinkovci, it is not the same to talk about this topic in Opatija or Sinj, in one Pula or Osijek, etc., etc. But until we start thinking that way, the disabled, the families of the victims always swear more, and the rest of us, as we all do, I'm just afraid it won't be good. Because I just don't believe in the turns of the guy I don't know Rocky IV, Rambo IV – I was watching on Sunday, who I was watching, Rocky yes, and he first got a lot, a lot of beatings, and then he started celebrating. Of course no one is going to beat anyone here, but I'm afraid there's a lot of things in this country they're going to have to give up in order to say the day after tomorrow that our children are living in an orderly and orderly state. So, not politicizing and not participating, I'd say in no one's election promotion. As it also simply offends, for example. here we have received a proposal from the Constitutional Law Committee on War Veterans, etc., which says in one sentence "The initiative to bring this law has been given by associations from the Homeland War, and the aim is to install a defender's rights fuse." I'm going to say once again that if the gentlemen hadn't objected when this government linearly reduced pensions to all disabled people, etc., etc., and if on the other hand imagine the situation being done by the left government, it would have been a revolution, we'd be pulling people out into the streets, and this is how we see that such a proposal came across one completely, under quotes, "understanding". I agree that if it were not for the defender there would be no Republic of Croatia as we know it, there would be no Croatian independence, there would be no independent Croatian institutions. How independent they are of some other occasion, as I also add that there would be no NOB fighters within the current borders, etc. But to the disabled, once again, I'm going to say, everything to the families of the victims always swears more, and the others may not have what they have because I think we're slowly coming to the point where the state needs to be saved, so that everyone in the next day won't be left without everything, and that's why the children of the defense attorney with no future. So, in my court, no one should be putting pressure on this Parliament, better to put pressure on those who brought the country into this economic and material situation, not even possibly on the government but on HDZ, and I think some of the applause that they heard from the gallery before should also be warned about just showing what the pressures will be like on the future government. All in all, I think there's too much politicizing here, and just because of that politicization, I'm not ready to join the thinking and voting of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76200	Thank you. And now we have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Ivan Bagaric, who answered immediately at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just correct an incorrect quote, and it applies to so-called. God's pressure in the assembly room. I think everyone here should be honored to have these people at the gallery and that there are people here who are here and that we should just experience it like that, not like any kind of pressure. And on the other hand, all the things you've listed here and said, if there's part of the truth that you're talking about, and I believe there is, that's more reason to vote for this bill and protect the defenders than not to vote. So you've given no reason not to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76202	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, in a series of inaccuracy, I will only correct one, which is a false pathetic way to serve in this Croatian House. I ask you as a Croatian defender, Mr. Cain, to remove our false pathetics and vote for this proposal. We will have nothing more to discuss, we will finish this site of history, the Croatian defenders will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76204	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain, it is incorrect that the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families has been changed 6 or 7 times, that it has always increased its rights and that it has always been voted in consensually. This is a quote I was just trying to connect. My colleague Cain, a law passed in 2004, had five amendments and additions. It doesn't always have increased rights. You forget that in one of the amendments we have limited the right in which the status of Croatian defender can be obtained. And colleague Cain, it is particularly incorrect that we always voted consensually when we know that the basic law was passed in this Croatian Parliament in 2004 the opposition left the session when it was voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76206	Thank you. We'll stop correcting the incorrect allegations for a moment. And allow me to congratulate the honourable MPs and MPs on our honor that they can welcome the NJ in the Croatian Assembly. Eg. David Barkaradze, president of the parliament of Georgia with a delegation visiting the Republic of Croatia. Welcome. ... We continue to correct incorrect allegations. [[Applause.]] And here comes the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76207	Thank you very much. The correction of fellow Caine who said that the lost hand and foot on Sutjesca and Neretva is the same lost hand as in Vukovar is incorrect. In fact, it was a form of communists who united all the republics in the former Yugoslavia into a country called Yugoslavia. And the lost hand and foot for Vukovar has always been the desire of the Croatian people to achieve their country and to have their own independence of the state of Croatia. Thank you to the first president, Dr. Tudjman, for all the defenders who have established a new modern state in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76208	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76209	Thank you. Although fellow Sumrak partially corrected the 6, 7-fold quote as the 2004 law changed where the rights were mostly spread, yes. Croatian counterparts were right when they said the rights and reductions were reduced, mostly from enrolment of Croatian defenders to universities, to restricting Croatian defenders' rights to obtain pensions. Just where's the difference? Every time the rights of Croatian defenders were reduced, this was not given to all bells and did not play fanfare or were members of defense associations here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76210	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Cain incorrectly said that respect for Croatian defenders is expressed in false pathetics, not works. We saw the work of colleague Cain yesterday when 34 apartments were assigned in Bjelovar for the most disabled of the Homeland War, 14 billion kunas for the housing of Croatian defenders, the works of 500 defence cooperatives, 250 million kuna are invested in employment, 15 thousand employees. And the actions are the reduction of pensions, the illegal procedures of repealing the solution of the Croatian military disabled 4 thousand 280 we talked about, the systematic chicing of PTSD patients, and not to mention that MPP questionnaire, etc. So speak of consensus, may the consensus be that you accept this dear colleague so as not to repeat the misdemeanor and that there are no more billions of 600 million kunas than 6 billion kunas as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76212	Thank you. Now it is up to the distinguished representative, Đurjica Sumrak, to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, I am not surprised that you have a lot of incorrect allegations in your debate because as many times as when important decisions were settled here in the Croatian Parliament, you and the Kukuriku coalition were not, of course. So you weren't when it was budget rebalancing and then you can claim that this government questioned the existence of defence rights, no. There are also birth benefits and rights of defenders in the rebalancing process. And when you talk about this linear downsizing of defence pensions is, but I must tell you that the defenders were also in the '90s when it was necessary to defend Croatia, and also now they understand the crisis and recession and they didn't make a fuss because they decided to help this Croatia unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76214	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, while my colleagues have already corrected a series of incorrect allegations, I'll fix you a few more. This government has reduced pensions which is incorrect, and you know it well, Mr. Cain, that's all you use and politicize with it. No one needs to put pressure on us, and this is politics. No, colleague Cain, this policy, everyone in this Croatian Assembly can suggest something. The Croatian defenders sitting here at this gallery and in our assembly on February 26th brought this proposal and sent it to all of us MPs, and I don't think it's politicizing but simply accepting their proposal. What a few of my colleagues said, I'll repeat it for the public, for all of us, so you didn't say anything against it. Vote on Friday for, here I call you to vote for this proposal by Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76216	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will also correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim when he claims that this government has linearly reduced defence pensions. My colleague Cain, it is true that the payment of the debt made under the earlier regulations, the legal rules of '97, has been made. And in 2001, a little less than 450 million kuna was paid on behalf of disabled and family pensions. In addition, the 2007 translation of disability pensions and all rights of salary compensation for disability pensions was carried out. So I will also tell you with a series of such data that, from 2001 to 2007, a little less than 200 million kuna was paid on behalf of these debts. So much for the government's linear cuts in defense pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76218	Thank you very much. And now it is the last correction, the distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Cain often presents incorrect allegations, and as a rule we are correcting it mainly from the Croatian Democratic Community. I point out today what Mr. Cain said and quote, he said: "The most responsible Croatian defenders are for the creation of the Croatian state." You've told the truth and the truth, and I'm glad you're correcting and fixing. If you continue to do so, we could one day get something from you and better, probably your hand on Friday at this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76220	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Mr. Cain, don't insult these people in a wheelchair and those up there sitting there insinuating you said who founded the defense associations, who set up presidents, etc., insinuating likely that HDZ was doing it. Of course not. These people were able to defend and create this country, of course they know and what their interests are. In addition to a whole series of inaccuracies you've brought out, I'm just going to comment on some of them here. It was spreading you say the leprechaun of rights through the amendments to the law. There were several amendments to the law, but no rights were spread, mostly there were technical changes to laws such as the last one when it was in line with the Administrative Procedure Act, etc. as such that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished that provision on the right of the championship under equal conditions for children when enroling in colleges. You also claim why some did not object when pensions were cut linearly. It is true, linearly reduced pensions under special regulations, but you forget one key fact, that Croatian defenders in associations or outside associations have always had a special sense of state problems and that and that decision that was made was made in agreement and agreement with associations from the Homeland War. And when you talk about the economic situation and that this government produced 140 thousand unemployed in two years, you forget one key fact, that in the world there was a global economic crisis and recession that resulted in the abolition of millions and millions of jobs and that it was by no means Croatian specificity but that Croatia shared the fate of the whole world. And you forget one fact, that Croatia and the Croatian government have over the past two years alone faced this economic crisis and its consequences and that it is not like Greece, such as Ireland, such as Portugal and Spain, in the European Commission's register, but that Europe would certainly not end negotiations and would practically give the green light to make Croatia a full member of the European Union on 1 July 2013, a country that, according to your allegations, is in a catastrophic state and a step to the abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76222	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76223	I absolutely don't insult anyone, I simply don't want those people up at the gallery to happen what God doesn't give and will not, and I am deeply convinced of that, what happened to those Istrians or the Rijekas or the Zadars who integrated those spaces into the territorial Corps of the Croatian people. But when you tell me about inaccuracies, watch out for 140 thousand lost jobs, your finance minister owes this country about 2.5 billion kuna each month so she can service public spending neatly. This year, the country is due to repay 15.25 billion euros in loans. And whether I'm not going to talk about pathetics now, someone here in this assembly or in front of the Croatian public thinks we'll be able to behave in the same way as before. Unfortunately, we won't, but that's why I keep adding...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76224	What is the correcting of an incorrect assumption?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76225	What is the correcting of an incorrect assumption?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76226	What are you correcting, counselor? What are you correcting? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76227	I'm just saying a black reality that.../the speaker has been turned off./... which has been given to us by the HDZ team who is in power at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76228	This is no correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Josip Djakic reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76229	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament where counterpart Cain did not correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Minister but spoke of the Istrian partisans and of some of his insinuations that certainly was not mentioned by the minister. So I ask him to be warned so he won't do it anymore. Secondly, I would just like to tell him that defenders are always the first to be aware of their relationship with the Croatian country, so they were also in a decrease of 10% of their income at the time when the situation with the state budget was imposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76230	Thank you. I don't know if these tables are being raised incorrectly, then I'm really going to have to take some very gentle measures because they don't have any consequences. But I'll do it anyway. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76231	Yes, same Article 209 as Mr Djakic mentioned. So you, Mr. Djakic, can reduce their pensions by 10% and reduce other rights. And I assure you and you won't because it's about disabled people... [[President: What is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]] All the problems of the two-thirds majority and don't shut me down! [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76232	Mr. Representative, first you incorrectly took the word for correcting the incorrect allegations, and then also not referring to the article of the Rules of Procedure that you consider to have been injured, so I am cumulatively telling you a warning about such behaviour. ... As for Mr Djakic, he also called on the Rules of Procedure and corrected. [[- Intruder Cain, you don't understand.]] Please continue to correct Mr. Silvano Hrelja's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76233	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that the state has reduced the rights of the defense attorney. That's not true. It has taken away 10% of the defenders' pensions and categories of pensioners under special laws that receive more than 3 and a half thousand kuna. That's what I'm saying because the citizens haven't received a solution and I can't complain about that act of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76234	Thank you. At 11:11, it's past 10 minutes to apply to our Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. It is the turn of the HNS club, HSU's representative, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76235	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today for the fourth time in front of the cameras, which means in front of the Croatian public, we are discussing this issue of change in the Constitution. Therefore, raising the rights of the defender to the level of the constitutional document, i.e. the Constitutional Law. On the board in front of the cameras for the third time today in front of the cameras in the conference room. I assume no one in the HDZ, and certainly no one among HDZ MPs who is not fully aware and does not know that a change of constitution requires 2/3 of Parliament's votes. For much less - laws, individual decisions by HDZ club representatives come looking for support from opposition MPs, agree, try to win support for a decision. For this change, the Constitution, which everyone knows, takes two-thirds of HDZ not to try or ask for support from opposition parties in the agreements. Not this production in front of the cameras, but in agreements as it normally requires, but in every debate, it has tried to antagonise the opposition by falsely surrounding different things it is incredible to say that there will never be two-thirds to change this, to change the constitution according to this proposal. But at the same time four times organized this kind of production in front of the cameras and the public. With an initiative to change the Constitution, as I have said, with all three previous discussions, so I will not repeat all of this on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, the level or scope of the rights of Croatian defenders is not changing but the level of protection of their rights is changing. There's no basis for that. The only group under which positive discrimination has been conducted at constitutional level in Croatia are national minorities. Why are national minorities? Starting from the assumption that positive discrimination leads to a group that is traditionally discriminated gradually in an equal position, therefore positive discrimination is being done both in Croatia and anywhere in the world. The very fact that there is a constitutional law guaranteed the rights of national minorities tells us that Croatian politics, Croatian Parliament and Croatian society have decided to eliminate discrimination on an ethnic basis and therefore has this element of positive discrimination. No other group in Croatia is assumed to be discriminated against as a group, and then neither persons with disabilities, women, young people, children, or pensioners, nor everyone else, and that is why everyone is equal before the Constitution and the law and there is no state without it. And anyone who claims that it is possible to be unequal, and of course by reason, by education, by sex, by mass, by mass of things, every man is unique and unrepeated and not equal in terms of unrepeated personality. But in terms of civil rights and in terms of what the Constitution defines and the laws must be equal because there is no state without it. It is suggested in one step behind this speaker today that in some way change or support this change of constitution could be a question of patriotism. I believe that in one functioning state for people who are in any form involved in the conduct of government was of course, because in that case responsibility on their side but in every form, that the first question of patriotism for public servants, and here I mean literally, but by public servants I mean people who are elected to the elections, so those who serve and should serve the public, the first question of patriotism in public functions is not to steal, it is the first question of patriotism, and so you prove patriotism does not steal before that there is no conversation at all. If it hadn't been for so much corruption, everyone in this country would have had more defenders, and this country would have stood better. That no cases are revealed today that are always in front of the public in the courts, people who have exercised power, including the prime ministers of HDZ, who are suspected of very serious acts, are they really going to be that way and it will prove in court, but certainly suspect in very serious acts, and the money is gone. That's unequivocal. What the court determines is not whether the money is missing, but who is personally responsible, but the money is certainly gone. It's a co-workers and colleagues' question of patriotism not stealing, and we'll talk about everything else further. If corruption is not stolen and contained, then we can talk about people having the opportunity to work, to have the ability to exercise their rights. This change, of course, is the Constitution's proposal, since each association, individual or anyone can suggest different amendments to the law and constitution, but it cannot be initiated, according to whoever suggested it is well suggested, there are obviously some organizations of defence for this change of the Constitution, such as some other defence associations against this amendment of the Constitution, and let us not play with it or deceive, as usual some are for, some are against, and some are against, and so it is in this case, but they do not propose this, do not propose this in the Croatian Parliament and do not propose this inequality and create this kind of constitutional difference and inequality of citizens before the Constitution in the Croatian Assembly. I agree with the government, which is supported by HDZ, which, of course, is fully aware that it has not secured the two-thirds majority, but this fourth time in a row gives them the opportunity to get a part of their electoral body in front of the Croatian public and in front of the cameras. Since there is no possibility for this to be limited to business or otherwise, then we at the HNS Club, we propose to HSU that because of our membership in the European Union and the new law, that is to say to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of political campaigns, that these discussions and costs be related to these discussions led by the Assembly with complete awareness that there will be nothing of it, and hence only a pre-election campaign, a sub-election of the State Election Commission, because the State Election Commission is responsible for controlling the financing of political campaigns, and even when they are led here in the assembly. And your colleagues and colleagues will not support the election campaign of the HNS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76236	We have a 9 correction of incorrect allegations, so you can prepare yourself. The first is the correction of the incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a few inaccuracies that my colleague Pusic said, I'm going to fix just one thing, which is that the search for support was only in front of the cameras, that it wasn't in the opposition parties' clubs, I'm going to disprove you, and I personally asked Mr. Linić Tom Kaćinari, Đuro Glogoski, Ivan Psecnica as a proponents asked the SDP club, they asked you, but they didn't find you, to support this initiative, which is certainly defined as the findings of the defence population. And look at them, they have recorded exactly what answers they've received. They asked for a written statement from your clubs, so they didn't get it. And why we talk about patriotism when it wasn't about him, but we only talked about the protection of Croatian defenders, in the future, the reputation of all Croatian defenders, and that through constitutional norm we would certainly break up with the politicization of the defence population. When I was talking about us not being all equal, I will repeat once again, surely as a defence population we are equal before the Constitution and the law, but we are not equal by participation in the Homeland War and we are not all equally defending Croatia's homeland, nor did we want it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76238	12 has a correction. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76239	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, colleagues Pusic, you incorrectly claim that HDZ and this government and these defenders here have not sought anyone's support. My colleague Pusic may not be clear to you, but patriotism and love for the country does not mean that we should ask someone to support the respect of these defenders, so I guess we all have in our heart so much patriotism and love for this country and respect for Croatian defenders, it would be a shame for someone to kneel before you and seek support on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76240	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76241	Thank you, Mr. President. So on the trail, counterpart Djakic spoke, therefore, of a distinguished colleague, Pusic, you said that HDZ never tried to call the opposition to an agreement, but all with the goal of requiring a two-thirds majority for this law and would not have happened. So we can hear here both in the Parliament and in the name of the club, but also in the media, so HDZ has been working all along to provide support for two-thirds of the bill, and what I'm particularly surprised is that it bothers us, even though I know you love cameras, that it bothers you to speak in front of television cameras for the fourth time in this law and that the public is present. It'll be more likely that your intentions of honor are not than that of the camera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76242	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76243	So here I am correcting Mrs Pusic's incorrect quote that HDZ did not seek consensus on this, or agreement on this vote. However, all HDZ officials headed by the Prime Minister are seeking consensus all the time, but you must know that Mr Milanovic is SDP's leader half an hour after the government's proposal, or defenders, said the constitution is not the price of gasoline that changes every Monday. So, at the very beginning, you cemented your position and you were at the very beginning against it. I believe that you should not remain buried in your own positions and that there is still room for an agreement because, according to what you say, Mrs Pusic, you are imputing that we do not really want this amendment to the Constitution to pass. I don't think that's true, and I believe that by Friday, there's time for attitudes to agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76244	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76245	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, Mrs Pusic, dear colleague Pusic, you have made two very important things for me, or you have made two important mistakes. First, you said that the only measure of raising something to constitutional level is the issue of protection of law. Why would that be the only measure? Why wouldn't there be a question and recognition of something by raising to constitutional level? Number one. And number two,... Well, it's not medicine, but this is the logic of what I'm about to say, listen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You said we were doing something we know won't pass. Look, if we know that this thing will not pass, you trick us, so let it pass, vote in favour. And secondly, we don't think we're exclusive protectors and defense representatives. Honestly, I don't think that for myself. I think all the MPs here are obliged to put themselves in that position. So, anyway, why would he ask anyone to vote for something that's logical from our position? Therefore, deny us and cast your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76246	Thank you. Ms. Representative Anna Lovrin, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Pusic said that in these areas traditionally minorities are discriminated against. So that's not true. Minorities in these areas have been protected by the Constitution and by the constitutional law and by the former state, and since the beginning of the new, independent state, and this thesis is very dangerous because it is precisely the case that the Serbian national minority's aggression with the great Serb support of Croatia with the the thesis of the Serbian national minority is being committed. And such qualifications should be well kept. And just now, Mrs. Pusic, you are aware of this, the opposition insisted on the recent amendments to the Constitution that many issues that are not constitutional matter are put into the Constitution in order to guarantee them the required two-thirds majority. So this is the matter that deserves it, and these are absurd thesis about proposing something that we don't want to sell, it's very easy for you to defuse it in a way that you simply vote for these constitutional changes and that they pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76248	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Representative Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct the incorrect allegations HDZ has four times organised this type of production. It is a shame, colleague Pusic, that you are holding the defender's presence in a play and saying a simple lie, that it was organised by HDZ. The proposal was defence associations, so those most responsible for Croatian independence, for free Croatia in Europe, Croatia for all citizens, not elites. The one with the price of gasoline, the elite president, is not here again in the assembly today, and he's probably ordering SDP somewhere – I'm coming to the country kneel! So, you go to your colleague, and why someone hasn't come to you has those who obviously realize that there's no point in talking to someone because of the previously expressed attitudes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76250	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76251	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what I noticed was that HDZ did not try or seek opposition support, but I also noticed that counterpart Pusic said he would falsely charge. There's no false accusation, there's no telling the truth. And the truth hurts. And the truth is that during the term of the coalition government of disabled Croatian military disabled people's pensions was reduced from 8% to 20%, the right to a special salary of 50% of the personal invalidity for Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons was abolished, procedures for repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian wartime invalids, the permanent rights of the administrative court's rulings were returned 4 280. Due to non-compliance of disability and interest with the cost of living, a return of 21 million kuna had to be paid afterwards, the systematic dissuasion of PTSD defenders, so the known MMMP questionnaire. And so it's not consenting, it's not buying personal cars, and today it's about 600. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76252	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76253	Thank you very much. My colleague Pusic incorrectly quoted her as saying, "HDZ is aware that he did not secure the two-thirds majority." We hope that you will change your mind by Friday, and that you will correct your historic mistakes in this House when you left the Assembly when we voted to secession and dissociation from Yugoslavia, when you voted in favour of abolishing the State Day, when you abolished the name of the Croatian State Parliament, when you voted against arbitration with Slovenia, when you asked for a referendum for NATO and everything else you did along with your left colleagues, this is a nice opportunity to correct and show that after 20 years you loved Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76254	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardić. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76255	I think it is against all articles of the Rules of Procedure to lie, colleague Hebrang, in the Croatian Parliament, and you can check the vote on the arbitration agreement, so you will see that what you have said is a lie. We didn't vote against the arbitration agreement, just the other way around. We made it possible, because we considered it an interest for Croatia to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76256	And it's technically impossible to hurt all the articles of the Rules of Procedure, so that's not exactly an argument, to call on everyone, everyone can then. So, all the articles have been injured, and then he doesn't have to mention any of them at all, although the Rules of Procedure requires mentioning which article is injured. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76257	Mr. President, I only refer to Article 209 which has been violated and spoken against by Mrs. Pusic. I did not say that you were all against the arbitration agreement, but part of your left, I meant the president of today's Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76258	Madam representative Suzana Bilic Vardic also has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pusic, your mantra is incorrect, which you keep repeating here, and that is this proposal for a change in the Constitution causes the inequality of the citizens before the Constitution because you know it's not true. This proposal requires legal certainty for defenders and members of their families. My colleague Pusic is usually difficult to talk about patriotism, and that feeling does not have and do not know. And it's not an election campaign, it's not a question of who's in favor of this law, it's the real question of who's against it. And you answer that just haven't said why yet. I hope the citizens and defenders understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76260	Correction Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76261	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I would like to thank you for the welcome cry of my colleague Pusic. And first of all, it's incorrect that this is part of a pre-election HDZ campaign. HDZ did not start an election campaign unlike the CNS. Secondly, the charge of crime and the like, probably colleague Pusic draws from a HNS character gallery that is linked to the theft and abuse of his president, who, as minister, has set up his companies a job for 400 million kuna, double contracts, Vukovar, a strange disappearance of the Cres business space garage, 10 million annex contracts for reconstruction. So, a whole series of things that have enriched the HNS and enriched the clear view and thanks to this country to counterpart Pusic and probably thanks to defenders who when they freed this country did not know that they would rule the HNS here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76262	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić corrected the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76263	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I hope I can make it right because my colleague Pusic started sharing grades, and I see she's a teacher, so she knows I can see that she's sharing grades. Well, that's exactly why fellow Pusic you started politicizing this topic because at the very beginning you said a sentence, you didn't bother to pass it. Well, we didn't think there was anything to try for. So, colleagues Pusic make an effort for this initiative. So what did we have to do? The president of the SDP and your coalition partner immediately said and expressed his position by comparing the change in the constitution with the change in the price of gasoline. So I guess that's why my colleague Pusic doesn't have the chairman of Mr. Ante Kotromanovic's War Veterans Committee, a Croatian defender, does not have a member of the SDP in this debate. So did you wonder why? Well, probably because Mr. Milanovic banned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76264	Thank you. That's what we've done with the corrections. And now for the word, Minister Tomislav Ivic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76265	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear Mrs. Pusic. Indeed, there is no need for HDZ or the government of the Republic of Croatia to politicise on this matter. Just remind me what the Government of the Republic of Croatia or HDZ has done for Croatian defenders over the past 7.5 years. The works speak better than any word. I will remind only some of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which I would say in a more systematic and better way, of the problem of the present defence population, which Mrs Pusic did not then vote for, because she left the Assembly, and to the Croatian Defence Fund, the strongest fund in the country, which is now close to 2 billion kunas, and to the Fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders, for which over the past few years has been set aside from the acquisition of the Croatian Defence Fund 250 million kuna and allocated 41 thousand scholarships for the regular education of high school students and students of Croatian defenders, of course, to the Croatian Defence Fund, until the Agreement on the solution of the problems of members of the Croatian Council of Defence, and to the programme for the employment of Croatian defenders who have also invested 250 million kunas over the past few years, through which over 15 thousand Croatian defenders have found their employment and a whole series of other programmes. Therefore, we do not really need such a promotion and Croatian defenders are naive and under-age not to distinguish those who work in their interest and those who have no hearing or need for their interests. And even when you're talking about some associations that, of course, are against this law becoming constitutional law, it would be okay to cite them. Here are almost all the associations that are registered at the state level, so 42 that have been and have now given clear support. After all, the initiative came from them to make this law a constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76266	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SAP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76267	Thank you very much. I warmly welcome the Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and ask them to focus their attention because this is about constitutional matter, about the system of values they have defined by creating a Croatian state. They have fought for independence and a democratic state and have succeeded and the SDP will be eternally grateful for that. We appreciate your sacrifice, and we will always be fair and correct in the exercise of your rights. The fair and fair relationship is not controversial, we will fight for it throughout the Croatian society and in the Croatian Parliament. But colleagues and colleagues are concerned with constitutional matter, it is said that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is already called on in the original foundations to guarantee freedom of elections by the determined will of the Croatian people and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that the Republic of Croatia is being formed and developed as a sovereign, democratic state in which equality and freedoms and rights of man and citizen are guaranteed, therefore in the original foundations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is the foundation of our arrangement and our relations, the government comes from the people, belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of colleagues and colleagues, freedom, equality, national equality and rule of law are based on which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is interpreted. So that's where we can't lead to a pre-election debate. These are the foundations of Croatian society. So, the SDP club believes, it is firmly convinced that the entire defence population is democratically, democratically and that it can appreciate the values of democracy and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, we would like to point out that we are convinced because they show this for 20 years, that defenders from the Homeland War are woven, integrated into Croatian society and that they make up its integral part, that they are solid and that they carry all the burdens of society along with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They do not want to, nor have they shown until now, and this is what their HDZ colleagues are trying to say, that they were and that they will remain in solidarity with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we believe that. Secondly, the SDP club believes in the future, the democratic future of the Croatian state, in the democratic future of Croatian society, believes in future generations of Croats and Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens that they will be able to protect and preserve all values of the Homeland War, and in these values is the preservation of both positions and concerns and rights of Croatian defenders. If we doubt that, then we didn't do it right. We didn't do it right. I'm going to appeal to the Constitution one more time. The Constitution says the Croatian Parliament is a representative body of citizens. It's the foundation of our relationship. The comparison is not necessary for Croatian defenders or for us either, is not productive Croatian defenders with national minorities in our society. The democratic standard is that collective or minority rights are protected by positive discrimination, which is a democratic standard. It's very important to note this because let's tell the world that we understand what this is about. We understand what this is about. When it comes to the HDZ proposal for a change of law, and raising the rights of defenders to the constitutional level for the sake of the public, that means this. According to Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia item 2 states the laws under which the Constitution lays down human rights and fundamental freedoms. Who, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Article 83 states: the laws developing fundamental rights and constitutional freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are passed with 77 hands in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are established with 77 hands in the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ suggests that the rights of defenders from the Homeland War and their families be protected with 101 votes in the Croatian Parliament. Is it possible to say so to be the proposal of those who advocate the equality of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, who say they are all citizens, which the Constitution says is equal and equal in front of the law. Is trust in future generations of Croatians and Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens or mistrust so much that we have to make a difference among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that the SDP club and the Social Democratic Party are convinced that Croatia has a democratic future, that Croatian society has a democratic future on the principles of equality and equality of Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Without such attitudes, if someone is to say that they are not worthy of attitudes, they can understand that the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community is really based only on pre-election time. That is why we remain with the assessment that for Croatian defenders it is unquestionably to ensure that Croatian society develops, that the standard of Croatian citizens is raised, in which Croatian defenders will also grow together with those citizens, who will be fully integrated into Croatian society, into Croatian people, where they will grow in satisfaction with the creation of the Croatian state and that this country brings prosperity to all its citizens. It sounds pathetic, but I have to say it. Croatian citizens know very well and Croatian defenders do it well, suffer and rejoice with other citizens when Croatia goes well, grieve when Croatia goes bad, and they themselves know how well it goes and how bad it goes. So, keeping the values of the Constitution for which we have all declared by oath that we will keep them democratic values, democratic standards on the equality of citizens of the SDP club, unfortunately without consulting before, but this could be concluded that we are not consulted will not be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76268	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have 10 corrections and before that, I would like to inform you that we will try at 1200 hours or after 1200 hours immediately to complete the agenda of this session, so please also clubs to provide representatives for the vote, and now we will go in line to correct incorrect allegations. Of course, I ask that incorrect allegations be corrected, not debates. First, for all of us who will participate first, is Ms. Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76269	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my dear colleague, Leko, I must correct this quote of yours and a quote when you speak to the defenders and say we can appreciate your sacrifice. I think it is simply incorrect, because how then, as I can explain myself and Croatia and the defenders in 2001, when you immediately showed your patriotism and first fired 10,000 police and military employees, and more than two-thirds of these employees were just defenders from the first line of defense of Croatia. So how come I find this claim of yours correct when I'm sure it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76270	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76271	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am convinced that you know that my feelings cannot be corrected. Well, my colleague's representative corrects what I feel. So, at least take a human gesture and protect a parliamentary representative who can express his feelings or his attitude. Don't throw away your colleagues nicely, please. At least hold on...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76272	Thank you. I don't think I should mention the rules of the Rules of Procedure, the number of articles that have been injured should be mentioned. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76273	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in a series of inaccuracies, I'm only going to correct what's really important. When you say that you guarantee and guarantee to all defenders the fair and affirmative relationship of the SDP, as your president says, then I will remind you because you forget that it is absolutely not true. That's not your attitude, because you showed it when you knew that during your reign you reduced the family disability by 20%. Croatia's most difficult 100% disabled up to 60% reduced their rights. They even disabled their spas as well as their aids. That in your anger or anger, because you were created by the state of Croatia 4280 you have disproved the administrative court for which you, as a legal expert, are to know that you have denied your unfair solutions and compensation to all those victims who amounted to a billion and a half kuna. Well, isn't that enough signal for you to be working against the Croatian defenders and why you're making false promises today with some kind of pathetic promise that you might have consulted to maybe vote on it? It's a disaster!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76274	Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76275	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Leko incorrectly said that the SDP is eternally grateful to the defenders and that it is for a fair and fair relationship. That's an incorrect colleague. In that eternity there is that hole of four years of coalition government when you were in power where all these things were done about which fellow Djakic spoke. It's also nice that you've taught us a colleague, Leko, about the Constitution, etc. But how our defenders have unpleasant experiences and bad memories in that sense, and I propose this Law, and on behalf of that eternity you spoke of, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76276	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76277	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to quote Article 209 now. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament: "The representative can correct the incorrect statement of the facts presented", and neither counterpart Djakić nor colleague Milinkovic discusses the facts. They're just verbalism in the lack of arguments trying to eliminate my views. Of course you can allow that, but it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76278	So, the claim if you claim something, and the other MP claims something different then it is the correcting of the incorrect assumption that we understood it in the Croatian Parliament regardless of what it is very stretching actually in practice. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76279	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, of course the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 was injured when my colleague, Leko, said the facts I should repeat now. Isn't it enough for you that your thesis about you being for Croatian defenders and giving them due respect falls into the water with all these decommissioned ones I've listed for you? Well, that's the correct correction of yours before.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76280	Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76281	Thank you, Mr. President. He says that this law is a proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community. That's not true. My colleague, this legislative proposal is a proposal from the Association of Croatian Defences, an association of the originators of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders, and the Croatian Democratic Community, representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community stand only clearly and loudly with Croatian defenders as they stood from the beginning of the Homeland War to the day of today. They stand still today and will stand in the future. And we heard SDP's attitude at the end of your exposure. You are not for Croatian defenders. You're not up for this proposal, about the law to enter as constitutional law. You were not for Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War or those four years when you were in power and it did not happen to happen that you came to power, so let's see how you would then stand up to Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Ma, let's concentrate on correcting the quote, not opinions and political views from the past and the present, etc. So we have to preserve some form of correction of an incorrect quote, to say, I'm correcting it, you said it, and I'm correcting it, and I'm saying it's not like that, it's like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76282	Mr. Joseph Leco, and for the third time, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76283	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of Huška really corrects what I did not say and corrects it incorrectly. Namely, a colleague does not know the Rules of Procedure that the proposing in the Croatian Parliament can only be the one set out in the Rules of Procedure. So concentrate on the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76284	And he was also not quoted as being injured by the Rules of Procedure, which was injured by the Rules of Procedure. 6th Mr. Ivan Škaričić will also correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76285	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Lek's incorrect allegations that this debate is initiated in the elections, or that this is one pre-election campaign. It's not clear why you think HDZ is counting on the defense vote, and you don't count in the SPD. I think it's a sad finding. I wouldn't go in another way, I could fix it yet, but I think this is the best opportunity for you to show the Croatian public and the defenders that you are with them at least as much as HDZ, and since we need the two-thirds majority to support this law and protect the Croatian defenders and the Constitution, because I think they have earned it, and I think the rights are a little bit bitten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76286	Correction, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76287	Thank you very much. My colleague Leko said incorrectly, and my colleagues have already corrected some, that this is the HDZ proposal and that it is pre-election, part of the election campaign. My colleague Leko, I will repeat what my colleague Huška said, this is not a proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community, so I am more surprised by my colleague, Leko, when the SDP expressed his gratitude to the defenders, why you share the defenders with the parties. They didn't even make it back in the '90s. We don't have to share them now. Here are the defenders, this is proposed by defenders who can be in different parties, who don't have to be party members at all. And this is not because of HDZ, nor because of other parties, this is because of the interest and protection of the rights of defenders and members of their families, so that their colleague Leko does not happen to them as the SDP thanked the defenders in 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76288	Thank you. Let's concentrate on the correction. So he has the word "Mr. Joseph Salapic" for correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76289	Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would correct Mr. Lek's incorrect allegations that the HDZ, the HDZ club, did not want to consult the opposition parties on this bill, or a proposal to amend the Constitution. Mr. Leko, that's not true. On the Committee on the Constitution, we were alone, just as you SDP did not want to participate in the work of the Constitution Committee when this proposal came, and some of you have vice-presidential seats and for months the public needs to know you have been avoiding coming to committees, avoiding working in the Assembly, and for that you have been paid, and for paid and empty chairs you have not earned a salary. On the Committee on the Constitution, you didn't say either about, or against this, so it's not true that we didn't want to consult, we consult on committees here at Parliament's session, and we barely gathered a quorum to put this legislative proposal in the parliamentary procedure at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76290	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76291	... It actually takes 102 votes in the Rules of Procedure, but well, that's less stuff. [[Specially enabled.]] But secondly, I claim that the incorrect full debate, the pathetic debate of my colleague Lek about the SDP's relationship with Croatian defenders, is because, as he says, not everyone would have had a negative statement in each SDP step. If they are commended for creating this state as defenders, they will immediately put on their nose a few crimes that will clearly increase, then defenders who have come to this status in various ways and so forth. So either it is or it isn't, and if it is, then you're still doing a comparison of what's more valuable in the whole story, not the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76292	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76293	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I ask you nicely, I believe you heard what my colleague Markovanovic said, and I can't believe you let him say that. I can't believe it. Correcting my quasi quote, he accused the entire party of delivering and transforming Croatian defenders. So where's my colleague Markovanovic's argument? What are you talking about? Are you blind to the eyes? So do you know who delivered it? ... Well, you're saying that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76294	We can believe, because constantly in this assembly, the institution is being misused continuously by correcting incorrect allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure, only more or less is a replica of something that we can generally accept. Otherwise, it's permanent. And we have another correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76295	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, counterpart Leko reiterated one inaccuracy that has been repeated today among opposition representatives and clubs throughout the morning, that the HDZ proposal is on pre-election times. It's definitely a fact and it's true that this is Mr. Psence's proposal and defense associations, and if everyone were to treat defenders and defense associations from the heart the way we talk here, then we shouldn't be saying today that no one has consulted and no one has called for consensus, because if it's true that we're experiencing defenders in such a way, then no one should invite us to a consensus that we give them what they want. Simply, colleagues and colleagues from opposition clubs, Croatian defenders should not be a coin for... what you guys do all the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76296	Thank you. And we have very short on behalf of the promoter, namely on behalf of the Government, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go. Well, then let's go to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leco said that if the amendments to the Constitution were adopted, the defenders would be more equal than others. That, Mr. Leco, is simply not true, nor is it true. What makes them more equal than others? And now all these rights exist, they've been fulfilled for years, it's about that, and it's clear that there's only a possible way of amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. That a simple majority would no longer be needed but would require a two-thirds majority. That's what this is all about. And what I said in the opening statement, so when it comes to key matters in the country, and the relationship with Croatian defenders and the victims of the Homeland War is undoubtedly one of the key things, that political consensus is needed, that is, the consent of all political options.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76298	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club on the agenda item we started, which is the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Dinko Buric has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76299	Dear Mr. President, the respected representatives of the Defense Association, Mr. Minister, with an associate. Mildly persecuted for righteousness, their Kingdom is heavenly. Blessed are you, when you are wronged and persecuted for my sake, and all evil lie against you; and they persecuted the prophets before you. You're the salt of the earth, but if the salt gets angry with what it's gonna salt? It's nothing more than to throw himself out and get people to step on it. You're the light of the world, you can't hide a city lying on a mountain or a lamp being lit to put under a pot, but on a candlestick to shine on everyone in the house. So let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and the glory of your Father who is in the heavens. This is how Jesus taught the disciples on the mountain in Matthew. Living words of the living God continue to ring out in the hearts of anyone who believes. And how many lives do we find in those words today when we talk about Croatian defenders? For centuries in the Croatian people, living to know that it is worth dying for three things: for God, for country and for family. Guided by this knowledge and by this belief, Croatian defenders 20 years ago were naked with a crown around their necks to defend their family, homeland and God and they died for it and they were wounded for it and their tears poured out for it, but they defended all these values worth dying for. And what do we have today? Croatian defenders persecuted and injured, Croatian defenders of salt and the light of the country of Croatia, but the salt that has angered some and which is no longer for them but to throw themselves out and that people are trampling on it, the light of Croatia which is not placed on the candlestick to shine on everyone in the country, but those whose salt of the country is infuriated and pulled under that vessel only when it suits them and when they need some of that eternal light, which is mostly every four years before the elections. Today we have before us a proposal to pass a constitutional law on Croatian defenders. In this proposal itself, there would be nothing controversial if we were not aware of who the initiative came from, but rather the proposal, if we were not aware of what time this proposal was coming and if we were not aware of what purpose this proposal was coming from. Respecting the fact that the initiative comes from several defence associations reminds me of the fact that defence associations are not all Croatian defenders. When you talk about who the initiative for the adoption of this law comes from then I am proud to point out that I am myself a Croatian defender, a volunteer of the Homeland War since 28 June 1991, the reserve Croatian Army who spent 23 months and 11 days in HV troops and I have the right to speak and express my views on this proposal. Whatever the fact is, the proposer of this constitutional law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ Government, the same one who has for years been ruthlessly located, identified, arrested, transferred to prisons, politically mounted and judged by just the Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76300	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76301	You said the purpose of this law is better and stronger protection of the rights of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76302	Dear Representative Buric!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76303	And I'm taking you as a Croatian defender
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76304	Dear Representative Buric, Honorable Representative Buric, please Please. [[/Intruder Buric: I'm listening. I'm listening.]] The Croatian government does not even arrest any other actions. We have a system of tri-division of authorities that must be respected. Please continue your discussion in that sense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76305	Listen to the debate. It's all about the agenda, and I beg you, Mr. Chairman, that you do not disturb me in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76306	It is my duty to warn you of something you say and it is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76307	I ask you not to disturb me in the conduct of my duty, which is to speak in the Croatian Parliament. You said that the purpose of this Law is better and stronger protection of the rights of Croatian defenders, and I ask you as a Croatian defender and from whom you protect us. What dangers from HDZ protect us from when the greatest danger for Croatian defenders is precisely HDZ policy. You treat us defenders by offering a beating and a carrot. The Croatian generals and heroes of the Homeland War after the beastly persecution have been imprisoned in Croatian and White World dungeons, and those who burned and burned our homeland, the abolized enjoy the parliamentary salaries or parliamentary pensions. And they enjoy listening to the demagogue pranks of those they fought against. There aren't those we fought against, and even today, at this point in the agenda, they're enjoying the constituency bar. And you're telling us today about the protection of Croatian defenders. Gospić, Split, Karlovac, Osijek, Sibenik, Pakrac, Sisak, Vukovar, hero cities, cities of the victim of the ruthless savage Serbian aggression. Cities whose destruction was not answered by any of those who destroyed them. But cities whose heroes, whose defenders today are responding for defending them, and for defending them. Croatian Generals Gotovina, Markac, Norac, Glavas, Mercep, Brodarac are already in prison. The symbols of the defense country, the heroes of the Homeland War, were crucified and beaten to a pillar of shame, and crucified by our Pharisees. They were persecuted by Mesic and Racan, but the eloquence and identification, arrest and transfer, and then the political installation and packaging followed under the leadership of Ivo Sanader, with the heartless and unspeakable help of many from his surroundings, and in particular we remember the help of the man who today proposed and explained this proposal to today's Vice-President of the Parliament of Mr Vladimir Seks, a Croatian general who doesn't even remember where he fought, nor the army he commanded. But he knew and knew how to locate and identify and arrest and transfer. And he knows how to politically mount and make mistakes. I'm hanging in there. [[/Employing Capricorn: Representative, stick to the topic. You're talking about the law.]] This is all about the law. It's all about the law. [[Employing Capricorn: Please stick to the topic!]] You offer better protection of our rights and one by one you persecute us and shut us down. They'd say our people stop defending us, because from such a defense we're getting more and more hits. Croatian defenders have been sold to the white-world hohstaffles, Serbs and Croatian haters for the Jews. The Chetniks are appalled, and Croatian defenders fear arrests at every crossing of the state border but also in the homeland they created, defended and defended. The chief state lawyer Mladen Bajic is a mother to the Chetniks, and to Croatian defenders often as stepmom. Europe orders our authority to obey and Mladen Bajic satisfactorily accuses and arrests Croatian heroes. By installing indictments against them, relying mainly on documents by almost the main assistant for the persecution of Croatian defenders Sava Strbc, and how much level of mutual trust and respect for Mladen Bajic and Sava Strbc is best said that this same Sava Štrbac Zagreb County Attorney General has even proposed to witness the prosecution of Croatian General Mirko Norc. If not for Osijek lawyer Drazen Matijević had previously filed a criminal complaint against Sava Strbc, Savo Strbac would have witnessed the general's trial, Croatian General Mirko Norac. Yesterday, three of us MPs visited both recently closed and imprisoned Croatian General Djuru Brodarac. The man is also bitter in the infidelity of what is happening. It's particularly limited by the fact that exactly in his words more than 80% so-called. evidence of the documents of the veritas of Sava Strbec. This power will remain remembered whatever they say to me except for the robbery of their own people and for the famous location, identification, transfer and arrest of but also for something else. It will remain remembered for another wetland which in practice proved very dangerous for Croatian defenders. Those are action plans. When anyone from HDZ announces an action plan to Croatian defenders, it is not well written. The first is an action plan for the arrest of Croatian General Ante Gotovina. We know what came next. A terrible and shameful Hague verdict and 24 years in prison for a Croatian hero. The action plan for the elimination of Croatian General Branimir Glavas from political life was soon forged. We know what happened next. Equally terrible and embarrassing sentence of the Croatian judiciary and 8 years in prison for Croatian hero. He followed an action plan to equalise the guilt of the aggressors and victims of aggression under the orders of European and world powers that the Republic of Croatia never wanted. He was arrested and sentenced to 18 years in prison and another Croatian hero, Croatian General Mladen Markac. Recently, a new action plan for the pursuit of Sisak's defence hero led by the already mentioned Croatian General Djur Brodarec and Special Forces Commander Vladimir Milankovic was re-arranged overnight again from the same external circles. Both Brodarac and Milankovic and Bosnjak, but also Tomislav Mercep are already in prisons. But that's not all. There will be dozens and hundreds of Croatian defenders in prisons, as this is what those from European and world circles who cannot reconcile with the fact that an independent and independent Croatian state was created precisely thanks to the most Croatian defenders. Since the former state-owned HDZ, very little remains. Even Tudjman's line is famous In line with the policy everything has been converted for Croatia, Croatia for nothing, in everything for the chair, the chair for nothing. [[/Employing Capricorn: Stick to the Theme. The Honorable representative of the HDZ is not a subject, but a subject of the Law on Defence. Please! Stick to the subject. I'll have to give you a measure.]] And today you offer us better protection of the rights of Croatian defenders, hypocrisy, Phariseeism and the duality of this policy never ends. HDZ policy towards Croatian defenders is like a poisonous kiss. You're a black widow for Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76308	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76309	In words you defend us, and in reality you persecute us, Satanize us, locate us, arrest us, and transfer us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76310	Your Honor, I'm giving you a warning because you're not sticking to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76311	Be patient and give me some time, just give me some time. Not a word has been said, nor has anything been done in connection with the Hague court's findings on the ruling of Croatian generals Gotovina and Markac, but not in terms of the equally terrible and Croatian past but also the present and above all the future,... The Croatian judiciary's finding in the ruling of Croatia's General Branimir Glavas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian court ruling Branimir Glavas marks the beginning of the Homeland War with a joint criminal enterprise of illegal Croatian paramilitary formations of ZNG and HV. The UN court's ruling on Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac ended the Homeland War was marked by a joint criminal enterprise. The entire Homeland War is marked by a joint criminal enterprise. The basis of the creation of the Croatian state is the Homeland War, if the Homeland War is a joint criminal enterprise, then the foundation of these verdicts and the Republic of Croatia is marked as a criminal creation. All this was written by The Hague, but also by the Croatian court, and by the ruling silence. If all this is done to Croatian defenders is a condition for joining the European Union, then we Croatian defenders do not need such entry into the European Union. Several well-paid chairs in the European Parliament are not worth the blood and life given by Croatian defenders, nor the dignity and pride of their children and their parents, but also us who have remained alive by God's will. When the rulings respond, talk about the existence of a united anti-Croatian force, which, at all costs, today wants to bring down what we have won in the Homeland War and created an independent, independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. This is true, but the association anti-Croatian venture is not only part of Savo Strbac and its veritas, nor just various so-called "storbs". Governmental pro-Serb-oriented associations well-paid from international sources, as well as funds from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The destruction of Croatia's fundamental independence also includes representatives of the highest circles of the Croatian government. Because how to explain to the Croatian public the almost incredible fact that 39 judges of the former SFRY, 97 and a half, sits in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia of 40 judges. Only one judge became a judge in the independent Republic of Croatia, there were judges who tried even Croatian springers in 1972, as well as those who sentenced several years of slavery to Croatian patriots and because of singing "Arise Bana" and "Vilo Velebita". With this in mind, then neither the findings of the Glavas verdict that I already met the Croatian public 3 weeks ago, which deny the existence of aggression in the Republic of Croatia until 8 October, whose assembly of the National Guards and the Croatian Army are treated as illegal paramilitary formations, which until 8 October '91. only legal units on the ground of Croatia are considered units of JNA, then and such findings that threaten the constitutional foundations of Croatia's creation are not surprising. Having this fact about the composition of the Supreme Court, there is an understandable question of what kind of justice, not mercy, but justice from such a court can be expected by Croatian defenders. This proposal for constitutional law is nothing more than an unclean conscience wash, because of a policy that has led to Croatian defenders in the past seven years. This is just another action plan, this time for the manipulation of Croatian defenders. But HDZ must also take care that no party, as already said, and because of everything that has been done in the past seven years, then neither HDZ can claim Croatian defenders. They belong not to political parties but to the Croatian people. That HDZ really cares about the constitutional law on Croatian defenders, then the ruling majority could have done so in June of last year when the last amendments and additions to the Constitution were made, but they were not the elections. Three weeks ago, I warned of the almost arrest of General Djura Brodarac, unfortunately that happened before I knew it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76312	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76313	I'm bringing the end. It is said that Croatian defenders are the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76314	Bring the end, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76315	And that's true and unquestionable. You interrupted me, I've got another minute and I've got a hitch.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76316	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76317	But unfortunately, too, it is a shame that this government also took from the children and families of the dead Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76318	Bring the end, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76319	I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. And at the end of the messages and associations of Croatian defenders, do not let yourself be anyone's puppet, especially in the sense that we Croatian defenders are proud to have flowers and light candles on the graves of the dead Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76320	Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76321	I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76323	You're offering us constitutional law, and we Croatian defenders are ordering you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76324	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76325	We're changing the constitutional law for the Law on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76326	Thank you very much. You've finished your speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76327	Give us an abolism, stop haunting us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76328	Thank you very much, let's move on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76329	And close, and we don't need constitutional law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76330	Finish it, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76331	I'm finishing up. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76332	No more, please stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76333	On the other hand... Give the constitutional law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76334	Your Honor, I'm taking it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76335	Or whatever it is you want to do to stop them and their abolism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76336	I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76337	Start... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76338	And I take away your word on that wheel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76339	Identify, determine and transfer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76341	You know what, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76342	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76343	You're so distracting me in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76344	Thank you very much. Please leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76345	That I'll give you the yellow card.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76347	And next time in the election, you'll get a red one, because you're distracting a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76348	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76349	In the act of duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76350	Thank you very much. When you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76351	You've both got yellow and red charts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76352	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76353	Because you're not acting as vice president properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76354	Thank you very much. It's your style.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76355	In my style, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76356	I judge, I sue, I... Thank you. You can go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76357	You may be ashamed, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76358	Thank you very much. You've finished your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76359	Ministers of War of the Croatian Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76360	Thank you very much. You've finished your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76361	How do you treat discussions on the subject... when it doesn't suit you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76362	Thank you, please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76363	I'll leave, you'll get another red card.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76364	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs, I can't help but say a few words after this debate. The proposal to raise this law to the level of constitutional law is a perfectly normal proposal, because it was proposed by defence associations, but also by another important reason. The law under which it is co-operated with the Hague Court, the law under which defenders from Croatia were taken is the constitutional law and constitutional category, and when it is an obligation for defenders, it is a constitutional category, and if their rights should be protected then it is the law of the ordinary category. It is therefore important that at least in this sense these laws are equalized, and I think that is an argument that we should use and that should also be respected in the vote. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the first violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe a series of articles of our Rules of Procedure have been injured, but I will call on one 209. I think it is extremely inappropriate for someone to bus that the Croatian defender to speak to the Minister of War this way. In this way, all specialists are offended, thus insulting the reserve composition of Croatian police who were the first Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, many forget, because you colleagues can express your political views, but in this way talk to a man who was the war minister of the Republic of Croatia and vice president of the Croatian Parliament, I find it extremely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76366	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76367	You can't talk, please. Your Honor, you cannot speak. I took away your word you can't speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76368	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76369	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76370	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76371	Your Honor, you cannot speak. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76372	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76373	Your Honor, you cannot speak. Please. You can't answer that. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76374	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76375	Please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76376	But the War Minister has no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76377	I'm taking you away from the session and interrupting the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76378	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76379	I'm asking Mr. Buric to step away from the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76380	... And what you do today is a disgrace. [[Specially enabled.]] It's a shame of everything... I said I... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] You who are false... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] There will be more of these points, sir... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] There'll be more of these points. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Shame on you. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76381	We're moving on with the session. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76382	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - I appreciate you, you were a war minister, probably a good war minister, but you're an extremely bad vice president of the Parliament. You can't ban a representative from speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76383	Your Honor, I can do it!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76384	On the other hand, another war minister is now standing in Osijek in front of that county penitentiary and a real protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76385	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Keep him standing there, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76386	Let me say the closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76387	On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76388	I'm not gonna stop. All of you together if
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76389	Don't do that, don't make a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76390	Let me finish my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76391	You can't because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76392	Well, you do it all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76393	Your Honor, I'd like you to proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76394	All of us together today may be ashamed of this situation in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76395	Thank you very much. No, I'm not gonna kick you out. Don't look, I won't kick you out without worrying. ... Stanko, come in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, I'd like you to sit down. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76396	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is after the decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the decision to lay down the draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted today by the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing the proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It proposes that the rights of Croatian defenders be governed by a constitutional law which is subject to the same procedure as for the adoption of organic laws, i.e. by a two-thirds majority. The proposal for these changes and additions came from the Homeland War associations and was motivated primarily by ensuring the country's constant and continuous concern for the defenders and victims of the Homeland War regardless of certain political differences. However, as conveniently repeated, it should be pointed out that Croatian defenders are precisely responsible for living in a free and independent Republic today. They exposed their lives to the defense of our country. Many have come out of war with visible wounds to the body and invisible wounds to the soul that cause many of them to experience great difficulties today and cause them to suffer and their families to suffer. On the other hand, there are no rare criticisms and their rights which are further affected by them, and it must not be forgotten that many of them have not returned from the war and that other women, children, older parents, in the words of the family have lost their foster parents behind them. In order to defend the state sovereignty and establish the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia at all, had it not been for Croatian defenders who, in such ungrateful conditions, had won our victory. It is they that we can thank for the fact that today we have the opportunity to build modern, democratic and sovereign Croatia. Today, after 20 years of the creation of an independent and independent Croatian state, we are discussing strengthening the constitutional and legal position of Croatian defenders in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, those who have defended the newly created Croatian state in a fair, legitimate, defence and liberating Homeland War have also enabled its existence. It should be pointed out that Article 58 is. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is already prescribed that special care by the state is devoted to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. However, so far, the laws governing their rights of the Croatian Parliament do not bring two-thirds of the votes of all MPs, which should also be amended in their favour by accepting this proposal of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We in the HSS club firmly believe that there should be no dispute within the parliamentary parties on the role and importance of Croatian defenders for the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that a general consensus should be reached on this issue. By adopting this proposal of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the text in which it was organised by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and which lies before us today, it will ensure that the rights of Croatian defenders are governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws. The adoption of laws governing the rights of Croatian defenders by two-thirds of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament necessarily implies consent and opposition on this issue and permanently removes any use of the position of Croatian defenders in Croatian society for daily-political purposes. In the year when we mark the 20th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Croatia, and when we are before joining the EU, the HSS club will support this legislative proposal, which we believe is also a statement of respect and recognition for those who selflessly put their lives in the defense of Croatia and its citizens and thus enable it to be a democratic and free country today that independently decides which community of states and joins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76397	Thank you. Before further discussion, as the clubs have finished and we move to individual debate one notice, 79th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 6 July 2011 at 13:30 in the Hall "Janko Drašković", room 202/II, Vice-President of the Committee Gordan Maras. We're moving on to an individual debate. He is the first respected representative of Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's something that could have just gotten very complicated. Namely, what we are obliged to do to the defenders, so provide them with a place in the Constitution, a well-deserved place because neither this Constitution nor this state would have been at that time to defend a large part of our population, each in their own way. And the strongest ones, the best ones were on the front lines no matter which parties they belonged to and whose children were at that moment. And that moment we should have moved on, we should have kept that relationship to the defenders. However, it is obvious that later defenders came to another plan and talked more and more about something else, so not about brave defence, not about the creation of a state, but about a series of things that no country that has its own defenders did, that's for sure. So, both the media hack and the hickey of various political options went directly to defenders, which is actually the saddest story in the whole story. I had a chance the other day to listen to Samobor where the 151 celebration was. The Samobor brigades and other brigades, the delegation of President Josipovic, above all by his very general Stipetic, who, after one commendable sentence on defenders, immediately began to beat up on everything else, so on the defenders. And especially threatening the register. So, it turns out Josipovic and Stipetic will publish the register so let's see who's the defender, who deserves to be inside, who doesn't. It is not their goal to publish the register, but their goal is simply to say that defenders are inconclusive, that there are both such and such ones, so in a very ugly way to talk about defenders. And it's happening all over Croatia. The team with Stipetic, so Josipovic's advisers walk around and spread exactly the attitude towards defenders such as should not be in a country where there has been a recent war in history, and in this war indeed won and won. I think the least we can do for the defenders is accept this proposal on the Constitution, ensure that their rights are guaranteed regardless of the political options and the political majority and that all this relationship to them shows that there is not much will. In fact, I have to go back a little bit to the SDP's Club of Representatives, where the unusually warm talk is about defenders. So, what we don't hear from any of the SDPs today we heard here, and we wouldn't have heard it for sure if the SDP campaign hadn't started long ago, and then, as part of the campaign, it would have been convenient to have defenders on our side. So that's why all these attacks are going on right now to do it for this and that, because actually every single one of them is going to be careful what they say at this point. There is, therefore, little, but they have their speakers through the sayings of the president of the state and the people around them who have very much joined the SDP campaign. So I suggest that we all meet together even today's debate if it's possible to put aside a little bit completely, to accept this law, to meet here on Friday and gather enough hands in the air, and I think that would be just fair and fair to the defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76399	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76400	My colleagues and colleagues, we are just discussing this last class on everything else we had a chance to hear this morning, according to my deep court, showing how cynical, unnecessary, politically dangerous the debate you have imposed in this House. It is dangerous for several reasons, because you antagonise defenders with the rest of Croatian society, because you want to antagonise a Croatian society that has never been more unique in its history than in the time of the Homeland War. And I now say, as defender, gentlemen, raise your hands from the defenders, we don't need political cartridges or SDPs, let alone HDZ. At the time of the war, the robbery was being robbed and the robbery was being sponsored. Gentlemen, don't play defense. We want to be part of Croatian society, part of the National Corps, we want to work and make a fair living and not be privileged in this society. It's not the wish of any honest defender. I speak for those 350 thousand people who didn't come here for any privilege. The policy that you impose on this topic is inadmissible and extremely socially and politically harmful to this country. Keep that in mind, that's not worth a piece of power that's why you raised this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76401	Dear MPs, I've let you say it all the way, but you've replicated what Krunoslav Markovanovic isn't talking about at all. You can't do that. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76402	Well, I don't think we're really doing this because of a piece of power, because the government is either it or it isn't, so let's let the bits of power go. But the fact is that what you have chosen as a defense attorney and other defenders is that by coming to power on your own, you have completely turned it around. Let's remember, we're not going to repeat the relationship between Pandzic and your government to the defenders, but all you said was enough is actually a denial of everything you wanted to say. That as a defense attorney, you did this thing, and in fact, alone in your position, you completely turned your back on the defense attorneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76403	Thank you. The individual debate goes further, distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I must admit that I am a little surprised by the tones and debates like this especially when they come out of the mouth of people who are defenders themselves and who have been involved in the Homeland War, so at the time that I consider it to be at least my concern, that it would be the most honorable and most valuable period of my life. Because at that time, we all went after one idea, the idea of a free and independent Croatian state, and we were prepared in those conditions in which we lived and worked to give everything, give life, give parts of our body, and unfortunately many were on that path and gave such a sacrifice. We also heard here that it was this proposal to amend the Constitution, that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers would become a constitutional law in the function of a pre-election campaign. I just can't agree with that fact. We know what the order of passage was. Some colleagues even asked why it was not such an initiative when the constitution was adopted, but it only appeared now. That is precisely what confirms that this was not the HDZ initiative as a party but was the initiative of defence associations because this initiative, we know for itself, went somewhere in February of this year and it had its phases and this is now the final phase of the implementation of that law. I must say here as a Croatian defender and repeat, I have already spoken in previous debates about that no Croatian defender has made himself rich by consummating the rights of the Croatian defenders' rights. These people sitting here, also those who were at the gallery, are not the richest people in Croatia. They're not people who went in '91, '92, '93, '94, '95. in the fight for an independent Croatian state because of '91. There was no law on the rights of Croatian defenders for years, and even those who were Croatian defenders did not, and when the law was passed, they did not know that they had certain rights under that law. Here I am as a camper, as a man with a military disability based on torture in a camp, in a Serbian camp, I didn't know that I had this right or that I was interested in somewhere in '94. A year. We had one goal at the time, and it was an independent and sovereign state in all of its territory and for that purpose we were willing to give everything. It also bothers me when some colleagues here today speak or in previous discussions have said that in this way the Croatian state will be burdened, that it will become a burden to the Croatian state, I must say here that it is not true and I must deny it, because we all know that the consumption of the rights under this law has been founded and many defence associations, it has been self-employment of the ministry because by encouraging employment has also helped to make this economic and financial global crisis easier to overcome and for every commendation it is. It is also impossible to understand that some of our colleagues are saying that defenders are privileged caste in Croatian society, and we know that most Croatian defenders are also employed and today work and behave their duties and are not meant to be a burden. But you simply saw the events that preceded this initiative, how much was the unity of the Croatian people at the time when they considered it necessary and were ready to show that unity publicly. Therefore, no Croatian defender wants to be privileged, but every Croatian defender, every participant of the Homeland War wants to be recognized because this is the time, what I was talking about, most people consider it to be the most honorable time in their lives. I cannot understand, too, that some colleagues say HDZ will profit from the adoption of this constitutional law. So HDZ has 65 MPs in the Croatian Parliament and it lacks 37 other colleagues so that this law can pass in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, HDZ cannot profit without the other representatives who raise their hands and other members of party clubs here in the Croatian Parliament who raise their hands for this law also not profiting along with HDZ. Therefore, I also find it incomprehensible that certain parties' clubs here would vote for this law, but they were not asked nicely and did not go to negotiations with them. So what kind of negotiations can be about this law? This law can be accepted or not accepted and that's the whole story. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I appeal once again to rise above some party frameworks. This is a law that is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially Croatian defenders, and we see that Croatian defenders in today's society, most of the society do not consider themselves privileged but simply want to protect their rights acquired by law, especially the rights of the most vulnerable part of the defence population, and these are children of the dead Croatian defenders, widows and fathers. That is why I appeal for a consensus once again and for us to rise above the party frameworks. Thank you very much. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76405	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76406	Thank you very much. Mr. Honorable colleague Shantek, you and I both know where we were at the time of the war, and we have acted according to our Constitution, Article 47, which states that the obligation to defend the Republic of Croatia is the duty of all citizens. So we did as our conscience tells us, but also the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, regardless of this, it seems to me that, in view of everything that has been stated so far, it is because of the action plans that many of our generals lie in prisons both domestic and foreign, as well as washing their consciences because of the further jurisdiction of the military prosecutor's office in Belgrade, which continues to have a lot of right, to say so in Belgrade, to arrest our defenders whenever they remember it. And not only that, so what do we do besides say that we're still protecting our defenders in constitutional law. How do you do something about it? You have no suggestions, but actually this is a pre-election time and you know why this is all about and why this debate is just like it is right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76407	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76408	Dear fellow constitutionally every citizen has the right and obligation and duty to protect his country. However, if all citizens did so, they would not have among Croatian defenders and volunteer status. They are, however, defenders who have recognized that their obligation is to defend their country and in difficult times, and these are defenders who have recognized that their obligation is to defend their country at the time you mention, which is the summer of '91. In the summer of autumn of '91. I must admit that after I returned from the camp when I saw who was defending Croatia, that these were people who were not mobilized, the mobilization began only in the 9th month of '91. For years, I was even more convinced that we were right and we were going to win the war. If you are talking about this second part of the law, Croatia is a legal state, Croatia is a democratic state, Croatia has a trio of authorities and we are today suspected of certain crimes can help most in a way that we apply as witnesses and testify in their favour. I call from here and appeal to all my colleagues who have any knowledge that can help our people in prisons, who are in court to report as witnesses and help them in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76409	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. In what, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76410	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, don't be surprised. I guess I do. I'm thinking for myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76411	Tell me, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76412	Therefore, Article 209. I wasn't talking about witnesses or the testimony. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76413	Your Honor, your rep wasn't what he was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76414	This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76415	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues, defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War and the family, today I listened to everything and I couldn't believe that there was so much misery in us Croats. Namely, this Law, which is our association representing all the defenders or defenders who are interested in representing them, has asked that only the current state of the rights of Croatian defenders to be guaranteed, means by one constitutional law, that not a single majority should ever think about how they want to change that law but simply have a two-thirds majority in this amendment. The government handled it. It's come to the Parliament, and there's been a discussion about these things, and then there's wonders, and we're surprised, and we're talking about campaigns. I haven't heard from any HDZ people today who said something that we'll get one more vote in the election. If we take this data from the Ministry of Defense that we have 55813 military disabled and 12087 killed in the Homeland War and we take one piece of information that we agree on or disagree that Croatia defended the Circuk of 500,000 defenders, where the largest number of these people has been mobilized in the military-raid action "Storm" then we will come up with the fact that we are really defenders in the minority if we take the list from '91. In addition, we add to this list Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina who, in the same day, in the same trench, in the same uniform, with the same rifle, defended their country in the Republic of Croatia, and then in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will get the information that it is somewhere around 5 million Croats. And if we refuse the population to 18 years out of 25%, then we reject the population 25% to those over 55 or 60 years, we're going to get some 2 and a half million military taxpayers, and it says we were half a million, 500,000. Well, we here by this law if we now want to protect those half a million people we certainly have two million more people on the other side who weren't, and even though the Constitution required that we defend our country. Indeed not all of them were able to perform certain tasks. But they weren't all for war either. I don't see any reason why everyone doesn't say that these rights of the Croatian defenders who are today and we swear to the defenders who are here today that we can't legally do one constitutional thing, just because tomorrow it doesn't happen to anyone with that classic majority that we're going to change it, so we're going to take it. I will not blame neither the SDP's authority nor the former minister who in 2000, in 2003, was denied people, so thank God the court eventually returned it. We've been under specific conditions. I'll tell you your personal information. In 2001, I had a solution there that I was not a Croatian defender. That's the first time I've said it. Just because I was born in Derventa. I am proud that I was born in Derventa and that I lived there and that I should seek my right in Derventa, means in Republika Srpska where I am, where I have fought both there and here. Indeed, the rule of law worked, and then the judgment eventually returned. Now there's a question from Lucko, there's a war minister, from Lucko, where did people come from in Lucko, first training? From all over Croatia, from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. Hundreds, thousands of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and no one when they came to the table at the eighth in Slavonski Brod, at 3. The guard brigade, in Special Forces, in all the tigers no one took care of whether to take the first check-in at some address in the Republic of Croatia, then take the gun, but rather take the rifle. We had a negative experience back then. Tomorrow it can be repeated by any authority that it lacks money, and we know that this ministry, this government spends more than 6 billion on Croatian defenders. He says we will go out half a billion or a billion, and these people who are in the Croatian Council of Defense, who, this year and last year, who were included in the interstate agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are wounded and have received a certain church or pension, live in the Republic of Croatia, and have defended the Republic of Croatia along with all other people. It can happen to someone and tell them we're going to take it off now to save them so they can sue us, so while we're in power after that we'll lose and someone else will pay for it. And something that certainly hurts me like a man and a soldier and a warrior and a commander because there are people who were not in the Republic of Croatia at the time of their death in the Republic of Croatia, so they don't know. There is one thesis that the Croatian army attacked Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gentlemen, I'll tell you one thing now. While in Bosnia and Herzegovina there was still peace, and the Croatian soldier had no weapons to defend his home, as a third of Croatia, 30% of Croatia was occupied with the Republic of Croatia attacked by the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Smotajica, Slavonski Brod and all of Slavonia, Smotajice, Slončar, Zupanja, from Banja Luka through Banja Luka from Bana Luka through all those other places to Bosnia and Herzegovina are JNA with Chetniks from Serbia, from Bosnia and Herzegovina attacked and destroyed municipalities such as Okucan, near Lipik, Pakrac. And those planes, they killed for killing children on Slavonski Brod, were moving from Bihaq. Therefore, we can discuss this now. And there is no problem that Croatia went there to do something else. We can talk because we don't know things. But the first cannon grenades from Leješje came to Slavonski Brod, the first large caliber came from Motajica to Slavonski Brod and not to speak any further. I would simply ask everyone, I would ask everyone on behalf of all our defenders, those people who gave the most of themselves, and we know those early years that no one had thought about buying it, people were selling the cow, buying the gun, no one was thinking about the rights, if he was wounded, if he died, how he was going to be. Everyone worked without pay, without any privilege or obligation. They went knowingly to defend their country, they went first to defend their threshold, their street, their neighborhood, their city, and so on to all Croatia. To pass this law and not allow any, I hope that we will win the next election and I am sure, but that we will not allow any more rights of Croatian defenders without a two-thirds majority can change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76417	Thank you. Now we have five replicas. First of all, the Honorable Representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, here's my colleague Biljic, this last line of yours is very dear to me, so let's not let anyone else touch the rights, the defenders, the words or the deed, or any failure. I wanted to say something in the life of the Croats there are sanctities and these are the three most important, these are faith, family and country. Faith, family and country were the sanctities that Croatian defenders defended, only those who carry it within themselves, those who carry it in their hearts, it is difficult to understand that you will agree with me, both agnostics and atheists. It's hard to understand those who weren't prepared to go to defend her, it's hard to understand those whose homeland war was not a spiritual father, but some other war. It's hard, but today they're asking us colleagues to ask them to vote, to kneel before them and... Oh, my God, did that happen? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there is no dignity and only general awareness of how we will implore them, and therefore it is good that this law should be included in the law, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that no one can ever again do any injustice against Croatian defenders and the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76419	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76420	Here a colleague would thank you for the replica, namely patriotism, faith, church, family, now whether anyone believes in church or believes in something else, it is his problem, certainly that they should be some sort of foundation of one man. 15, more than 15 years have passed since the military redistribution of Storm. It is high time we took down the topic of Croatian defenders, let's put it in constitutional, let's put two-thirds of the people to vote in the Assembly, that one who wants to change this should collect two-thirds, and knowing Croatian democracy and the Croatian people will rarely be able to get more than two-thirds of the option... And then we will simply solve and we will no longer politicise around Croatian defenders whether we need them for elections or not for elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am responsible and I am sure that the Croatian Democratic Community does not have 0% thought that this is a pre-election trick. Let's once put on an ad act and tell the defenders we're always drilling about Croatian defenders, those who created the state, let's now say it goes into the Constitution, and it won't be possible for anyone to be vaccinated anymore, it won't be possible to change that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76421	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76422	Here's a thank you. Somehow my name often slips through here directly or indirectly, I thank my colleague for mentioning me, but extremely constructively. I personally feel that there is no reason for this law, this Law on Defense to be raised to the constitutional category. And why do I think that? Because we have achieved less consensus on the existing Law on Croatian defenders, which has long been provoking recommendations. He has changed four or five times, and he has been brought down to the level of 2001 law so often attacked by the law of 2004. And now that we see the cost structure, according to the 6.1 billion report for the defenders, 5 billion goes to pensions, 750, 60 million on permanent rights, means all other rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defenders are 300 million kuna. 5 billion I say goes to pensions, and now no one has told me yet whether it means raising this law to the constitutional level of inability of a future government, any to change the amount of pensions as it was a year ago, two days ago when pensions were reduced by 10 percent for certain categories of users of defence pensions, and that the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders has not been changed. Why? Because there was no money in the budget. So what if God doesn't get into this situation to run out of money, whether it's going to have to be changed under that law, as constitutional law, or whether it's going to be enough to make a decision by the Ministry of Finance or by the Government when they adopt a state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76423	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76424	Here it's called the main argument that the fuse is, but we can write anything if there's no money to pay off that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76425	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76426	And the main problem is pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76427	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76428	Comrade Pancic, you said that we brought all the political parties by consensus, maybe not really, not all of them, but if we brought that consensus, we're going to cement it so that we don't discuss it anymore. I mentioned you as a minister because you were then a minister, but I didn't blame you or the government, but tomorrow it could happen because of what we said there's no money. Croatian defenders have also shown these years, when they saw that there was no money that the bag was empty, and then they kept silent even though they were saying today why you didn't go out on the streets when 10% was taken off. They knew there was no money, and so they did, and I'm sure that Croatian defenders and tomorrow, but hopefully we won't have any more needs, we won't have as many black days as we had, that we'll have enough money that our Croatian defenders can only get bigger pensions, and then they won't get smaller, but that tomorrow they need the same Croatian defenders to tell themselves there's no problem taking another 10%, Croatia comes first, and then our receipts are in second place.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76429	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76430	... I have for one reason, because I have been called by several defenders from the former Croatian Defence Council, so here's a distinguished colleague, since you have a better relationship with the ministry, since today we are all full of the mouths of Croatian defenders, to check out this fact that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is paying for the last 35, so it's a difficult wartime wartime disabled, paying for accommodation in spas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Varazdin or Krapina spas have been proposed. However, that the health minister replied that there is no place for them in Croatia but to look for those places, there I ask the minister to respond, and on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that was also heard yesterday on a television show where it was discussed, where they reported themselves on the show, and that they were suggested to go there, far away. For me, the members of the HVO were Croatian defenders, and while we are discussing the Croatian defenders here, I would ask you all not to share Croatia in, I am a Christian, but I am also fond of both members and those who do not believe in God, because it says in the Constitution that all citizens are regardless of religion, sex, the membership of national equal citizens of the Republic. In addition to the already known and numbered Croatian generals who are now chasing European, Bosnian and some other prisons, I would like to see, and also to the normal Croatian prisons, and against a series of defenders against whom the proceedings are being held, I would also warn of a defender who passed the similar fate of Mr Tihomir Purda, who is Veljko Maric, who is being
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76431	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76432	I'll bring it in. Which you still don't know anything about. Both the Croatian government and the ministry have not launched action to get him out of prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76433	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76434	How fortunately I was born in Derventa, and I live in the Republic of Croatia then I had the chance to be a member of HV and HVO. I can only say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry both during the war and after the war and today takes care of all the victims of the Homeland War, means members of the HVO. I don't know, the first time I've heard of someone who's a member of the HVO, even though they've been given pensions in the Republic of Croatia all these years so they can't go to spas. I think it might be an individual case. But in general, this ministry and this government are certainly the mother of members of the HVO as well as of the HV. As far as the Maric family is concerned, my support and I think that there should certainly be something to do about this defender coming to his family in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76435	Thank you. We now have a replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Given that he was still here this morning debated on the subject of what his colleague touched, concerns the war in BiH, I think it is always important to note and always explain and always say that once and for all, a myth, a fake myth, so to speak, not the truth about Croatia's relationship with BiH. So, this is exactly how you spoke about one Croatian cooperation regardless of the border at the time of the aggression on Croatia and on BiH and in defence of this aggression I would like to actually present some important data. One is unequivocal that Croats contributed most to BiH's sovereignty in a way that is in Parliament in '90. voted the Declaration of Independence of BiH, which could not be voted without their votes. And that was a prerequisite for a referendum decision that the Croats went to over 90% and voted for an independent BiH. Therefore, and this was also a prerequisite for BiH's international recognition. Not to mention the contribution, the military contribution of the HVO to the defence of the space at the time of the aggression on BiH. On the other hand, I have repeated this countless times here, and I will always do so whenever different attitudes are expressed, as they were carried out in this part of the debate this morning, which is that all the support, all of BiH's assistance during the war and aggression on BiH, either by sea or by land, came from Croatia or through Croatia. And if it hadn't been for the engagement of the Republic of Croatia, I would have been responsible and as a participant in the war, BiH would have collapsed. Just as it would be very difficult to defend Croatia without the support of the Croatian people of course from BiH. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76437	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76438	My colleague Bagariæ, someone may be angry or not angry and say I'm wrong or I'm right. But if there were no RS and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina would not be today. That's for sure. The first ones to take guns seriously were Croats from BiH. Whether it was in Savina, whether it was in Herzegovina, whether it was in central Bosnia. And how could we do that if Mother Croatia and Zagreb didn't help us at least give us food to eat. Thus, from these days until today, this has never changed. The Croatian Defence Council is the most responsible that Bosnia remains complete. And all those who talk and claim that someone from Croatia wanted to share BiH, and I'm not going to say he's lying, but I'm going to say that he doesn't know, that he's uninformed, that he simply doesn't need to talk about it. BiH Croats preserved BiH's foundations with a rifle, on time with a rifle. If there were no Croats in BiH and the help of Zagreb to us who went down and the Croatian defenders who came at the beginning and took some experience and returned to their hearths in their homeland BiH would probably not have been because the army that was with that technique would have destroyed it, it would have been worse than in Srebrenica. That's why I can only say on behalf of all those members of the HVO that I commanded, and there were several thousand, I can thank the government of the Republic of Croatia for all the support they gave those members of the HVO in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76439	Thank you very much. And the last replica, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76440	A colleague of BiH has thanks to how you said both the attitude and the help of Croatia. But Posavina, those of your Posavina, is gone. It is not in the sense that Croats live there in a percentage of 1% to 2% and that they are exiled from their hearths. Well, you lived there, too, so now you're here. So, there are several myths that Mr. Bagarić spoke of, and not about those myths where Croatia is being accused of, it is a disaster of such a bribe, but there are several personal myths from which some of this constitutional law came into effect, and it is not necessary because they paid their participation according to the principle of who bought it, the cave, well. It's a very small number. I'm not talking about the mass of defenders who took part in it. They don't even have status yet. Here I am today contacted by Mato Uzarevic of the 108th Brigade, so he cannot even exercise his defence rights. But since we don't care about you as government about our generals and defenders in prisons, Mr. Maric, etc. How much less worry about the civilian victims you were talking about, how many were convicted of the Butch camp where 40 civilians were killed, among them is Dr. Schreter from Pakrac, who knows Huška better. So the Grjevac camp between Pakrac and Požega where 20 civilians were killed and more than 300 Croatian civilians passed through. Who was responsible for 28 children killed in Slavonski Brod that's one whole class? No one. So that's what we're talking about with this one misunderstanding. And here we are going more politically and pre-election purposes to this constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76441	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76442	My colleague Grubisic, I would like to correct you, Posavina has unfortunately not in those frameworks that was before the Homeland War, so Posavina had Odjak, Oresje, Brcko has the Shamac unfortunately Bosnian Brod, Modrica and Dervente Croats do not manage them. For the defense of the Bosnian savvy, the lives of the Bosnian people gave a thousand 700 Croatian Council of Defense, but they did not only defend Dervent and the Bosnian Posavina, they also defended Croatia's homeland, because you know that in that part, in that part of the parish, all the way up here behind Slavonski Brod that it was a line of defense under... under Doboj and in these places. Thank God you couldn't go directly to Slavonic Ship in that part. But surely these people gave their pain and what could have been done to that famous corridor, which was simply crucial in all of this and in these diplomatically ultimately steps that took place in Deion, that they simply found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time. I can talk about defending that part because I'm the 4.7th last one with my unit out of Derventa. Therefore, they defeated us militaryly because there were more and because the whole of Croatia. The Bosnian plant was lying on the corridor that bound Banja Luka, Knin, the only road that could reach Serbia was via Derventa. I think everyone knows what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76443	Thank you. I would just once again point out that the law on co-operation with The Hague is a court which obliges Croatian defenders to respond to which obligations they must respond if requested by the Constitutional Law and that there is no reason for the law that we prescribe the rights of Croatian defenders to also be constitutional law. Thank you. [[What about Brodard Gjur? Is he in Haag's court?]] Please, no trespasses. ... Please behave, we're in the assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Government, Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a few things. First of all, the answer to Mr. Vinkovic. I don't know about this case you're referring to, but the fact is that three years ago an agreement was signed on solving problems and problems related to members of the Croatian Defence Council and that this agreement is fully implemented and that this is the first time Croatia has systematically solved the question of the victims of members of the Croatian Defence Council. But we'll check what you said. My colleague Pancic, the 2004 law of course has touch points from 2001. However, it is a whole new law that has a whole series of other solutions that were not in the 2001 law. And that's the important difference. If you're talking about a consensus being reached on the key issues of the defender, then why the fear of this law becoming constitutional law? I don't see any reason. If we all agree that the existing level of rights that has been in operation for several years and which has been implemented for several years has become the Constitutional Law and it is not about the fact that this law cannot be changed. He'll be able to change then, but his changes will require exactly what you say consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76445	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76446	Mr. Minister, when you say the 2004 law is a whole new law, it's wrong for that. History doesn't always begin from us or the 2001 law was not a new law but was based on previous legal solutions from the former state, because we had wars before, and then from the 1990s, as was the law of 2004 based on all the previous solutions, including the 2001 law. He has changed several times, as was said here. And the last solution I pointed to was the pension insurance rights, he returned the provisions of the 2001 law. When the hole was created, when it was seen to break and that balloon returned to the 2001 solution. There are, of course, new provisions and good provisions that no one disputed as well as in the 2001 law there were provisions that were not controversial to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76447	Thank you very much. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76448	I'll try to get this help to the Minister to review, well now that we're not taking the lead, this is what I'm saying in good faith, you'll see there's really 35 that someone has reported there that they can't simply, whether Croatia can't accept it, but mostly mentions Health Minister Darko Milinović who said there's no place in Croatia that I can look for a place in some other spas, not to mention which. To my end, the issue of war rapporteurs who have not yet been resolved is a matter of status. And look, the media is filming us, a lot of them were on the front line of the battlefield, and we're witnessing it, and you and me. Therefore, I would ask that the status be resolved if this law would already be passed, regardless of who will vote and for what reasons it will vote for and for which it will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76449	Bring the end. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76450	This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure because you here...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76451	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76452	207. So you're giving all the wrong information, accusing the Minister of Health of things Mr. Health has nothing to do with. So, if you know about that information, bring me that information, and we'll talk. I come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I came from yesterday and I haven't heard from anyone about this problem that you've qualified as a problem that the minister didn't want to solve. If so far the members of the HVO have been treated without any problems in the spas in Croatia will be in the future and are now. And that problem is the way you presented it, here I am arguing from here even though I don't know about it, it doesn't exist that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76453	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76454	Article 209 is injured here, and 207 states that no one can speak at the session before asking and receiving a word from the chairman. This is Article 207, colleague Bagarić. As my colleague, Bagaric, the chairman, allowed me, I did not accuse the health minister as a representative, I only asked the defence minister to check the allegations that were made, but you do not have to sit on your ears. The chairman didn't even give me a warning or anything...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76455	Please. Neither one of them is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76456	I'm begging you, I just got myself this Rules of Procedure, he went from Zenica to Mostar, and I was in the weddings in Mostar, so I came across there for a private visit, so I got my Rules of Procedure back.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76457	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Intruding Vinkovic: In the case of a Croatian general.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76458	And I hope I don't have to go to other Croatian generals in the white world anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76459	Your Honor, here's a thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76460	Thank you, too. And who sent him there is another story.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76461	So that concludes the morning session. I must say, however, don't use the Rules of Procedure where it really doesn't make any sense to use it. We continue at 3:00 p.m. and will be the first to be Ivo Andric Lužanski and the second to Petar Mlinarić. Thank you very much. Goodbye. We'll continue the afternoon session. The item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the Construction and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. number 842. An individual debate. The first is the announced distinguished representative Ivo Andric-Lužanski. He's gone. Then he is the second respected representative of Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The initiative to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which would have declared the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families a constitutional law, came from all defence associations from the Homeland War, the state level, 42 associations, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted this initiative and sent it to the Croatian Assembly. The proposed amendment of the Constitution since its formal legal basis is found in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as in the Assembly Declaration of the Homeland War, where the unmistakable contribution of Croatian defenders to the creation of independent Croatia is clearly highlighted. The Constitutional Law on the rights of Croatian defenders in particular the rights of the victims, the disabled, the families of the dead will be further strengthened, as any violation of the legal rights guaranteed in this case will be a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We are familiar with examples of non-compliance with the legal provisions in the employment of children of the dead Croatian defenders. This proposal does not mean politicising the use of Croatian defenders for political pre-election purposes, but rather vice versa. If the rights of Croatian defenders will be brought or changed in the future with a two-thirds majority of all MPs, then this involves a political consensus on defence issues, so to depolitise the problem of Croatian defenders. The adoption of the constitutional law will not freeze existing rights, it will continue to be able to change, supplement or abolish, if necessary, but with a high agreement of two-thirds of parliamentary deputies. The adoption of constitutional law does not mean the creation of a privileged caste of Croatian defenders, but rather the protection of their integrity. This proposal will not protect those defenders who have in any way sinned on the positive legal rules, all those found to have potentially unlawfully exercised any right will be eligible under the Penal Code. The existing Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families to the greatest extent regulates the rights of victims of the war of families of dead defenders and Croatian wartime wartime disabled. It is therefore particularly justified to discriminate positively against this extremely vulnerable population, such as justified positive discrimination in the case of national minorities, from the legal rights applicable to all defenders in the existing law, are the right to bury with military honors, the right to double internship during participation in the Homeland War, the right to share in the Defence Fund, and the right to take advantage of employment in public and state institutions under the same conditions all other legal provisions apply to war victims. The proposed amendments do not foresee any increase in the existing costs of implementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. I would also point out that this, for this constitutional change of the law, we should all vote, all those who went to war willingly and who carried Croatia in their hearts, with a crown around their necks, did not know what they were going to be, what aggression they would be, but they went, they put their lives on the line, and so if we remember them, if we respect those who created Croatia, then raise our hand, and that's the hand for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76464	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76465	Well, here's Mr. Vice President, I want to get involved in this debate and support this bill that we want to raise the defense attorney's rights to the level of constitutional law. We heard this many times this morning, it was sought by defenders, the Croatian government accepted and suggested to us here through the Committee on the Constitution. A few months ago, they asked for legitimate reasons, we all know that this budget cost nothing, that there are no additional rights and that there is no reason not to make sure that society, or the Croatian state, would not return to them what was not ultimately provided. We have heard that there is no state in the world that has won freedom in an unequal war, which has not given its defenders honor. We are also looking for a positive attitude towards the founders of the state, and these are our defenders, through the media and through textbooks, and through us representatives in the Croatian Parliament. If it hadn't been for the defenders, we said this morning, I would have said it again, there would have been no Parliament, there would have been no Constitution, there would have been no government, nor would we be here today to speak freely. I also want to say it's not the same to talk about defenders in Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula or perhaps in hero Vukovar, or perhaps in Dubrovnik, these are topics that cause emotions, and here I heard a lot of our colleagues say, for some I didn't even know what war route they had, so, it's really spoken with a lot of emotions, but also with a lot of arguments. I'm convinced that by Friday they'll be working on their conscience and that otherwise our friends from other clubs will come forward. We said not to seek the defenders of mercy but to honor and dignity, and if, by chance, the law should be changed in the future, for its change, it should be broad political will, broad political consent, which means the two-thirds majority, which means 101 votes, which means the consent of all political or political options. There is no dilemma that this defence issue is one of the key issues of our young country, it should also be mentioned that this year is the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Croatian state, the 20th anniversary of independence and indeed would be an excellent contribution to this great anniversary. All the countries in the world care for their veterans, just think about the way America talks about its veterans, what honors they have and what they have. Well, I'm sure when our defenders went to war, they certainly didn't count at the time as Mr. Bilnjic just said they didn't count on rights or privileges. The privilege is gone, but they were counting on the defense of the state, and I think today we really owe them. We are part of the victorious Croatian Army and we must not forget that. We must express our respect and gratitude for everything they have done in the Homeland War, and I do not want to sound pathetic, but they have written the pages of a recent Croatian history with their sacrifice. This is what we must not forget, and that is why it is necessary to vote this law, raise it to constitutional level in order to remove any doubt that defenders will change their policy options one day in order to treat them differently. They must never feel the political changes they felt in 2000 and when the defenders suffered the great humiliations that we talked about this morning. This is about politicizing. It's not about politicisation, it's just like the War Veterans Committee concluded about depolitisation. Because right now, depoliticization is two-thirds. Which means that two-thirds of all parliamentary deputies, so all the political options would vote for this. In that case, it's quite depolitic. And it's totally that argument that I think is unfounded. It was also this morning that Croatia was in a bad situation, trying to turn the debate on another track, and I want to repeat here that it would certainly not give the EU a green light for Croatia to join and allow the conclusion of negotiations that Croatia is in such a state as it says. It's also a very absurd thesis that we heard this morning from a representative of the HNS Club that we know this law will not pass, and we propose it. What would be the point of proposing a law that won't pass? We are just trying to convince all our other colleagues and colleagues to think carefully and, if possible, to influence their conscience and our discussions to change their attitude by Friday. I don't believe that attitude can be so cemented and that we're just digging into our positions and everyone's saying ours. I believe that both the HNS club and the SDP will change their minds by Friday. What I would like to say for a short while is, of course, that I should take this subject off the agenda, put it on the level of the Constitution, and not the defenders privileged, although they themselves have secured that status and should not be about it. But I just want to say for a short while, if we're not able to raise this to constitutional level, we need to ask ourselves what's wrong with us. We have a glorious past, we have every assumption of an even better future, especially on the EU threshold, but let's light up the face of the present. Why am I saying this? Because you already have today, I was born in '57. So I read about that war, learned about that war in '41, '42, 43, it seemed to me a very distant past. Today, children born now and born a few years ago are far more distant from this Homeland War than I was from that war of World War II that we learned about at school. And now you can imagine from that child's perspective, from the perspective of today's student who didn't experience that war that they think of him, what do they know about him? They know what they hear from us, they know what they read in the media, they know what they read in the textbooks. The only way to protect and that we who were contemporaries of that war, who lived at that time at an accident or fortunately because the Croatian State created itself is to illuminate the present in a way to ensure and guarantee defence status through raising to this level. I believe that I may use hard words, but I believe that it will work in other clubs and we will reach an agreement by Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76466	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76467	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Why are we raising this law on the proposal of Croatian defenders to the Constitutional Law? So that what happened with the rights of Croatian wartime wartime defence attorneys at the time of the coalition government may not happen. We all had the opportunity to see what the relationship to Croatian defenders was then and just to remind you that this resulted in thousands and thousands of lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia. And that we are all in the name of compensation for the damage done to Croatian defenders, but also in the name of what was not carried out in the work, which was then called the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, in the past few years we have paid a billion and a half kuna. The unlawfully implemented procedures for repealing and abolishing the status solution of 4 280 Croatian military disabled persons, reduced basics for personal and family disability, reduced orthopaedic allowance, reduced family disability pensions, non-compliance with the legal obligation for 100% military disabled first group are only some of the procedures best described by the coalition authorities to Croatian defenders at the time. And where today is the president of the SDP who is willing to assess this proposal to the unserious and explain that the constitution is not the price of gasoline to change every Monday. No, gentlemen of the SDP, the constitution is not the price of gasoline. The constitution is the most important document the state can have, and those who were willing to give their lives for it are best aware of. They did not budge before the heavily-armed JNA, they reacted to Serbian balvanas in the early 1990s, the first responders to the Blood Easter and the Serb attack on the papal police. That's why I think Croatian defenders with their rights should enter the Constitution. The constitution is always defined as a set of fundamental values of a country. If defenders are not the fundamental value of the Croatian state, then I don't know who they are. And while some fled to America to sleep over the war, others under the pretext of different functions in the service of the state in Europe, and all in fact to escape from the front lines, during that time the defenders made available everything they had. Your lives, your health, your family and your existence. And that's why defenders are the foundation of this country, and that's why they deserve to be in the Constitution with their rights. Because if we could change the Constitution to erase Statehood Day or to rename this High House the name of the Croatian National Assembly to the Croatian Parliament we can change the Constitution one more time. This time for the honour and dignity of Croatian defenders, and hence the Croatian state. Because the Croatian state was created by Croatian defenders and this is a way that we can now give them the merited recognition and gratitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76468	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76469	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I will briefly refer to the presentation of my colleagues, Lek, who, on behalf of the SDP club, spoke to Croatian defenders but also to associations at the gallery, said "We will be correct in achieving your rights". Here I will try to explain in my debate what it means to protect the rights of Croatian defenders, Croatian military disableds and their families correctly in the party's organisation. This means unlawfully implementing the procedures for repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian military invalids and permanent rights at the time of the coalition government and for no less than 4 thousand 280 and not the subject of the family, and in such a way as to take from that category 1.5 billion kuna which has been returned to subsequent legal solutions. I will also remind you that in 2009 these permanent rights were 88 thousand 906 users just to get the impression of abolishing what rights it was. Furthermore, this means reducing the basis for family and personal disability, reducing the orthopedic supplement. Furthermore, this means reducing family and disability pensions, and further this means not fulfilling the legal obligations of assigning personal cars to Croatian military disabled 100% of the first group. This means abolishing the right to services of persons who provide and care for the assistance of Croatian military disabled persons refers to the status of carers. This means the question of the survival of the right or the abolition of scholarships for children of Croatian defenders. Only in 2010 and 2011, this right was achieved by 10 thousand 527 children we add to them and trust rights means another 4000 535 scholarships. Since 2006, the total scholarship has been 41 thousand 031 scholarships. This further means that the group testing of Croatian defenders with PTSD is possible on those who remain. This further means abolishing funeral expenses after the death of Croatian defenders, this means abolishing honour at the funeral, and such colleagues and colleagues have only since 2005 been 9,000,753 Croatian defenders died during that period. This means further that the rights of Croatian members of the Croatian Defence Council, I think we do not want to know what it means to give the rights correctly or to exercise the rights of Croatian defenders of the Croatian Defence Council correctly. Furthermore, this means the housing of Croatian defenders, calling into question the continued housing of Croatian defenders, those who have not yet achieved this right. This means colleagues and fellow MPs that Croatian military disabled and Croatian defenders will again be false and burdensome on the state of Croatia. Perhaps you would have trusted your colleague, Leko, and your members of your club that when you passed the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, you quoted the original basis of the Constitution of Article 1 and Article 3 you would also appreciate and believe that today you and your club members are also contributing today as you say raising democratic standards not only for some categories in this country but for the most deserved. We'd appreciate that, but we don't see that you're going to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76470	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Suzana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76471	Thank you very much. My colleague Marinović, you have shown very nicely and very well argued and confirmed the SDP's thanks to Croatian defenders, who was presented by his colleague Leko in his debate on behalf of the SDP club when he spoke about this law. I have to, and I want to share with you what occurred to me when my colleague Leco said he was thanking the defenders. He brought me back not from 2000 to 2003 but returned me to the 1990s when the same party scattered the elections, made it possible for the first multi-party elections, but at the same time seized the weapons of territorial defence so that Croatian citizens could not defend themselves against the threatening Serbian aggression. That is what the SDP and the way the SDP guarantees and proves its gratitude to Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76472	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that mostly everything has been said by colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. I would, after this debate that we have heard especially from some colleagues who are not here in the assembly right now, say a proverb that says about us being stronger and more about us saying that we are out of everything we're saying, no matter how much yelling or don't know how to make our arguments. So, unfortunately, I wish I hadn't witnessed here today some sort of division in the assembly between those who have one attitude and those who have another view of this important issue. Everything else is just a mere excuse. So here they were talking to colleagues on behalf of the HDSSB for a pay phone, even saying that they basically have nothing against this law, and then why they won't vote, they said they're bothered by these, they're alive, dead. Every one of them is in their way, but they won't vote. Therefore, some problem in understanding even Croatian defenders no matter what they say. When it comes to some other clubs here, there's no need to mention them individually, they've certainly all explained to God their reasons why they won't give their vote. But no rational argument could be heard. All we've heard in fact was about the accusation of those who went with this bill of how to collect points with them, how to trade with them, how we run the campaign, how we hypocritically know this law won't go away, so let's go with it. Well, my people are just the solution in the hands of all those people who said it. Let us be denied let them give their voice, and we will be... and we would be happy to do so. Therefore, I want it simply to say, clearly, as I want it to be made clear, I do not accept, I do not honestly accept or think that the attitude of those who have asked me to speak of our defenders and associations is to put this law in the process that it is just a matter of protection. It's not about that, it's about all the attacks on the Homeland War and everything that goes along with these attacks and all those problems that go with it, and it's about raising the defender's question to a higher level and simply putting it into one framework that belongs to the whole defense story, and it includes people and institutions and states in itself. If we do this, then we protect and raise to a higher level and our first president, we protect to a higher level, and we place our first defence minister, the late Gojko Šushka, and all the living ministers, living at that time who fought and led this nation and this country. We've put the whole Homeland War on one higher level, so if it's not so someone can explain to me their arguments that it's not like that, and not that it's really just floscules and politicizes in a variety of ways, it actually turns off the topic. There was talk here about everything and everything just to get off the subject. I have already responded not to these answers, but man cannot look back on that after 20 years of war, we are still at the assembly, in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the nature of the war, especially the nature of the war, or the role of Croatia in the war, among other things when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since we're part of a linemate Mati answered, I would only once again say one finding that I absolutely don't doubt whether it's true or not. Unfortunately, some people still have a political and personal and with the late President Tudjman and some other important people who created this country and how they run it. However, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not interested in my people at all, these people are not interested in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor are they interested in how the war was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as he looked, who attacked Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was happening there, because if they were interested I would have met them there at the time. There were no such people there, neither now nor can you persuade them to come there, nor can you open with these people any question and talk about war, but justified. 'Cause look, I'm a doctor, I spent the whole time there, I was there, but I was there, so I guess I know what was going on. Let's make your argument, no, Bosnia and Herzegovina is essentially not interested, but they are for personal reasons or political leads dealing with the late president. The creator and leader of such attitudes is unfortunately the former president. Well, man of God, that's the man who broke up in politics towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, you can imagine with the late President Tudjman after the signing of the Washington Peace Agreement, which is absolutely incomprehensible, illogical and ultimately untrue. Unfortunately, some of their truths are being drawn on these issues and others who among other things find reasons not to accept this bill. Here's one more time, and also because of what's been said, my support for this bill and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76474	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76475	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is also very short and all, of course, in support of this bill of law, namely the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think two facts should be pointed out in the first place. In fact, the Croatian Parliament decided to join the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in this sense on 27 May 2011. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament decided to lay down a draft constitutional law on amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and all in the context of the proposal for Croatian defenders' rights to be governed by the constitutional law adopted in the procedure for the adoption of organic laws, of course 2/3 of the votes. Today, we have before us a proposal for a constitutional law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which represents the last phase, i.e. the third stage in the constitutional process, related to constitutional regulation of the rights of Croatian defenders, i.e. the procedure for adopting or amending laws directly concerning the rights of Croatian defenders. Subject changes relate essentially to two articles of the Constitution where it is important to mention the basic and emphasized one, and we often forget it in our discussions, so the basic amendment, or addition to the basis of this proposal, which will take place in our Constitution, is that the rights of Croatian defenders are governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws. What do I want to point out? So far, in our Constitution and constitutional provisions, if it is in the original foundations of Croatian defenders, the Constitution is defined as the basis for the establishment and defence and Croatian sovereignty and the Croatian state. On the other hand, the constitutional provision requires that the Croatian State devotes special care and protects Croatian defenders and protects Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities and protects widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. This amendment does not affect the rights of Croatian defenders established by the law, so the scope of the law is either increased or reduced by this change. Therefore, the rights of Croatian defenders, and this should be emphasized, neither extend nor reduce the proposed amendment or addition of the Constitution. With this amendment, the basis of the constitutional provision of future rights of Croatian defenders will only be changed by the basis of constitutional law, i.e. by the procedure and procedure provided for for the adoption of organic laws, which is 2/3 of the majority. Therefore, Croatian defenders do not become any elitist population in the Republic of Croatia, nor caste of privileged ones, nor will their position in the legislative sense become different because their rights stem from the existing law that is in force, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. However, it is this change in the population that attaches importance to the constitutional position they deserve, especially in terms of the establishment and defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments to the Constitution should therefore be seen as a logical consequence of the discussion of the constitutional provisions contained in both the original foundations and in the text of the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, the amendment or the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be supported because we, in this way, have the rights of Croatian defenders and all that has already been discussed in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, raise as one special constitutional category, indeed as a special constitutional category, but not in terms of developing or prescribing certain concrete rights of Croatian defenders, but in a way that can change these rights in the future I would dare to express myself with consensus, i.e. with political support or with the majority, two-thirds majority of Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian defenders have indeed earned this, and therefore support these changes or proposed changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and there is no reason, in particular, any argument as we have had the opportunity to hear in one part of the debates so far, especially the opposition MPs who challenge these constitutional changes, especially with the basis of the non-compliance with the constitutional principle that we are all in this sense equal to the law. Of course, and on the basis of this constitutional change, we will all be the same in the Republic of Croatia and will continue to be the same before the law only established by the law of the rights of Croatian defenders will be able to change only by procedure so that constitutional provisions can be amended, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It's final. This Proposal for a Constitutional Law should absolutely be supported and rejected by all the arguments which went from a constitutional and legal aspect in challenging the constitutionality of the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76476	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Representatives and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion, the proposal for a law which, in this Reverend House and this morning and the day when we included this proposal in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, should primarily have one atmosphere of ceremony, one atmosphere of respect, one atmosphere of understanding of the very way and the need for such a proposal of the Constitutional Law. It is a shame that the Croatian Parliament says that we were unable to discuss whether this proposal will pass or not, whether the clubs of opposition parties, first of all I mean SDP and HNS, will support this proposal or not. When Croatia was defending itself, when independence, independence was created, when it was killed in Croatian cities, when innocent civilians of Croatia showed their honorable role, their awareness of the Croatian homeland, their awareness of giving their life for independent Croatia. Today, there would be neither free Croatia nor Croatia, nor Croatia where we live today, nor us MPs who today respect this proposal in the Croatian Parliament and carry out the will above all of the Croatian defenders who created the foundation of this Croatian state and for this basis for 20 years of independence in Croatia, for the 20th birthday of our country, we cannot find a consensus in the Croatian Parliament. We can't make a deal, talk about something that should have been honorable, historical, and patriotic. And it is a shame that today all morning we have experienced huge insults that this is the election trick of the Croatian Democratic Party, which primarily supported the defence initiative to raise their status to the constitutional level and to get what they deserve. It would not be us if it weren't for them, and it's embarrassing that any party, especially one who claims to be the leading party after the elections in Croatia, would behave like that in the Croatian Parliament, that they are not there at all, that they don't come to the board when we have discussed the initiative on the Committee on the Constitution, that they're destroying the quorums and that they simply say that this is an election trick. All we do in this year is all for the SDP election trick, all we do is win the election. To win the election, the HDZ will say to Croatian voters, Croatian citizens. And around this honorable intent is created so falsely, mocked, said to be a circus, that we've brought representatives of defense organizations to applaud us. They came with their own will, with their heart, and with their pledge for what they had experienced. So how do you tell one mother who lost her son in the Homeland War that this is what you're looking for? As one of the children that the Croatian state is studying today, we have here a report from the Croatian Ministry of Defence on how many children are taken care of, how much the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Government is taking care of these children. How to explain to them that their father cannot enter the largest basic document in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Constitution. How do you tell that kid it's a circus and we're using the defenders and the kids to win the election. We have won our election victory in 17 years as far as we rule in Croatia, because we have fought for the Croatian state, for the Croatian people, for the Croatian children who are educated in this country. And anyone who makes such a mockery of this proposal is ashamed of Croatia. Anyone who leaves the assembly in those moments, anyone who calcifies with whether they get a plus or a minus in the election for it is not worth mentioning. It is not worth mentioning anyone who destroys the foundations of the Croatian state, and the foundations of the Croatian state have been created by Croatian defenders, and we have been given an honorable role to respect their initiative and to proudly introduce our country into the European Union. It's not a flossula. This was the life and historical goal of the Croatian people from the first Croatian president, the late Franjo Tudjman until today to our government leading Croatia to the European Union. And anyone who has mocked this initiative in this way, and this legislative proposal, I believe, does not work in the interest of the Croatian state, but on the contrary. And that will best be understood by those who have suffered a tragedy in their lives, in their families, and in their homes. And the one who calculated with such tragedies is manipulative and does not respect Croatia's state, does not respect the bloody foundations of our statehood that we had to make bloody, or people and defenders who died for that country. Today we can breathe much easier, introduce Croatia into the European Union, pass laws, harmonize laws, talk about the university, discuss education, about scholarships. But if it hadn't been for them, if it hadn't been for the defenders, it wouldn't have been for Croatia. And there should be an end to every story. And the one who thinks he'll get plus or minus, the voice one or more in Croatia because of that he doesn't love his country, he doesn't have Croatian statehood in his heart and he doesn't understand the blood that's spilled for Croatia. It is the strength of the Croatian people, which is primarily the strength of the Croatian Democratic Community and of our government, Prime Minister Kosor and all of us in the Parliament who could understand and understand that in 20 years of Croatian statehood, the least we can do for the people who have disappeared and given their lives on the plate is to put them in the Constitution, in the Croatian Constitution, to raise the law in the category of constitutional law and to respect those who created our lives. And it's a sacred moment for me. And it's for me and as a young man who's been educated in this country and who's looked at from another perspective of fighting because I was a minor, I can understand and I had my own family situation where I lost my parents in another way. I understand children who are educated in Croatia and who are obliged to give their deceased parents the right to be built into people, and the Croatian state is obliged to create the foundations of those children for the future, for the European Croatia and for the freedom of Croatia that has been bloody achieved. That's why I support this bill. And I'm gonna do this again. Today was supposed to be a session of the Croatian Parliament. We should all unanimously support this, not calculate on any basis, with any election tricks, for any electoral vote, this is the sanctity of the Croatian state, and my patriotic initiative and my understanding, the respect of those who gave their lives for Croatia we will show on Friday when we individually vote for or against, and then I call on Croatia, above all on youth, because I still belong to the category of those people and advocates who support young people, to see well, to well assess who respects the blood and sacrifice of those who gave their lives for Croatia, and that is sacred to me, and I support this as a representative in the Assembly and my party and I am proud of HDZ, the defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76478	Thank you. It's her turn to be respected. Replies two. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague, for your presentation, which is really great, but I would like to replicate to you once again, that for the implementation of this law, we really need no lip, no kuna, and it represents one symbolic, one exaltation and one status of Croatian defenders in our Constitution. And when you were talking about kids, I have to point out to you that exactly those kids, as you pointed out, deserve it. You need to know that there are more and more children in our hospitals who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, and we think of these children, and this is one symbolism that gives meaning not only to our defenders, but also to their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76480	Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76481	Thank you very much. I spoke here from the heart today, because I understand best he can understand the one who, in his families, has experienced some tragedy, who has lost someone, and who understands what this means. This is primarily help, nothing is taken away, no right will be reduced, in monetary terms it means nothing, it's a noble goal and it's something that first of all when you talk about it, when your heart hits harder than you can think about at that point, then you know it's honest and honest, and everyone in this country will understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76482	Thank you. Another replica, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a short replica, and I certainly absolutely agree with the distinguished colleague of course with everything you've said in your debate about defenders, about the defense population, about their children. However, I would refer to that part of the debate when you spoke from the constitutional point of view, in relation to the objections we had this morning, that this amendment, i.e. the amendment of the Constitution, will automatically cause it to be a sign of equality in the sense of non-compliance with the constitutional principle of inequality of citizens, so equality of all before the law. I would particularly like to stress in this replica that this is actually one of the small doors, one I will dare to point out in this dissension and in the context of the defence population and in relation to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is not a matter of any kind of inequality, the basis of these constitutional changes is not put anyone, based on the status and importance of Croatian defenders themselves, and only in a way that when we discuss, when we talk about their rights, when we are talking about their laws, so I will say about their law, so much about the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, that it is necessary, in the end line, that the broad political consensus, that these things are needed in terms of potential changes and two-thirds, so that there is absolutely no solution to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76484	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76485	Dear colleague Tomljanovic, that's where we fully understand each other. It is not the Croatian defenders of Article 58, it is not a threat to anyone's right, no one is put above the law, it is fully about manipulation of will and manipulation of Croatian defenders, it is entirely about manipulation of noble intent, our intention to place Croatian defenders on the constitutional category at the level of the Constitution of protected rights. So nothing will lose, but the Croatian defenders will get their historical, noble, national role in the Croatian Constitution, Croatian defenders are the foundation, they are all articles of the Constitution, and no one can say that in any category something is taken away and reduced. In 20 years, I will repeat, and that is very important to say, in 20 years of Croatian statehood we did not deserve to manipulate the Croatian defenders in the Croatian Parliament, and our Committee on the Constitution is ashamed that we were catching the quorum, that we were catching and praying to talk about it and we could not get SDP at our pay sessions for which they were paid, for vice-presidential seats, and then in the Croatian assembly, it is said that we are manipulating and that this is the election year in which we are looking for an election victory. We will get elections based on all our merits and pledges in these two years of work of this Croatian government headed by Mrs. Kosor, and those who do not understand it continue to sit where they have sat for all 17 years, which is one fat opposition, and it is easier to manipulate not to come, avoid and lie, but rather to support noble initiatives, which will best be understood by those we are talking about today, which are our Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76486	Thank you. It is now up to representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I commend and welcome the initiative of 42 associations from the Homeland War, that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and members of their families rises to the level of constitutional law, thus becoming a constitutional category, because they deserve it, and we are obliged to enable them to do so. I thank the representatives of the Associations of People's War because they have recognised the efforts that the Croatian Government has made since 2004, and have invested in implementing new laws, which respect their rights, and which have restored dignity to Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime peoples, families of the dead, missing and imprisoned Croatian defenders. In efforts to correct their wrongs and humiliations from 2000 to 2003 that must never be repeated again. In the year in which we mark the 20 years of the establishment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, 20 years of statehood and independence of the Republic of Croatia, and the year in which we ended long-term and difficult negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union, this proposal is a point on and, thanks to those who are the most responsible for having an independent, independent and democratic Croatia elected in a fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating Homeland War. I welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which accepted and recognised this initiative in April, and submitted to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And yes, I support the draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was delivered to us by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Never a shorter and more content change of the Constitution. A change that, in my deep conviction, we should bring consensus. I should say, because in club debates, we heard different tones, and the voices of some are very quiet, they're almost not heard. Because this amendment to the Constitution, colleagues and colleagues speaks less of those who initiated it than of us who should adopt it. Because it does not increase any rights, does not require new material separations from the state budget, it is a measure of our patriotism, a measure of national pride, it has defined us according to its modern history, to those who have chosen body parts and blood to have their own state. It guarantees future protection of the rights and dignity of defenders and members of their families. This is what we insist on when we want to decide on future changes and any additions to this Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to the two-thirds majority. I remember today, and I don't ever want it to happen again, that one senior state official in 2009 when the crisis in savings started, began cutting the rights of Croatian defenders to that extent by reducing the costs of burial for Croatian defenders. Although it was then the president of the Republic of Croatia, today's former and forever last president of the former state. Therefore, for me as well as for most of my HDZ colleagues today, it is not a question of why the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families should be converted into a constitutional law that we decide on by a two-thirds majority but is the question of why some are not here today and why some are not in favour of it. My colleague Salapic spoke well, and I think of national pride, dignity and ours, and when we respect Croatian defenders, it seems to me that the conversion of this law into constitutional law is another, that there should be another reflection of the maturity and democracy of the young Croatian state. In today's debates, only the right side of this assembly remained at the height of that task. It is sad that the left hand side is lagging behind whenever there are patriotic topics, when national topics are always missing their support. I hope that the defenders, as well as the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have had the opportunity to follow this debate today, will recognize the efforts of the Croatian government to raise the law on the rights of Croatian defenders to the level of the Constitutional Law as a question of our pride and the issue of our determination in the year when Croatia celebrates its 20 years of independence and its statehood. From all these things, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76488	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Susan, I'm going to rephrase to you very briefly, and I'd be much happier if today's debate under this law had happened in that direction that our opposition had discussed how and how to help local self-government units, infrastructure land for defenders, those defenders who, in accordance with the Law on the status of Croatian defenders, exercise the right to housing. In particular, there are 240 defenders in the city of Sibenik who, according to that law, exercise the right to housing. The conditions have not yet come to this because here is the additional sensitivity of help definitely and the units of local self-government so that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can also start building apartments and satisfy in fact that defenders exercise their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76490	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76491	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, you took a nice picture of the problem that exists in your midst, in your Sibenik, which seems to me the same opposition in power. However, the opposition here in the Croatian Parliament would not be so long an opposition if it were to be known to put the right side when issues of national interest. In addition, you encouraged them to resolve, to try to address issues of importance for the life of a local defender. But, colleagues Klaric, and you and I both know that even when the Croatian government passed in 2004, when the Law adopted here on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families that the opposition had left this assembly and this is what has been successfully done in these four years, that is, 3 years of this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76492	Thank you. It is next in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76493	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I support the draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System by act of 29 June 2011. On 27 May 2011, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and on 17 June 2011, a decision on the establishment of a draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Republic of Croatia under the proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitution, and on the initiative of the defenders of the Homeland War, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 21 April 2011, proposing that the rights of Croatian defenders should be governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws by the two-thirds majority of votes. The existing Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which governed the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families from 2004 with amendments and additions in 2005, 2007, 2009 and 2010 was adopted in a regular procedure with a simple majority of votes. Given that the fundamental precondition for the establishment and defence of state sovereignty and territorial integrity was a successful defence in the fair, defensive and liberating Homeland War, which was primarily presented by Croatian defenders, all assumptions for a coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern world and opens up a number of approaches to this world in political, security, economic and cultural terms. Croatian people and citizens in the Homeland War confirmed their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent, independent, sovereign and democratic state. Deeply respecting the historical role of Croatian defenders in the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia, the need to protect the rights of Croatian defenders is imposed by constitutional law as an organic law of the highest rank in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, I would remind myself of the role and importance of Croatian defenders was recognised in the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 to the additions of Chapter 1 of the original basis with subparagraph 13. Likewise, given the upcoming accession of the EU Republic of Croatia as an independent and sovereign state in internationally recognised borders where freedom, equality and respect for human rights and the rule of law of some of the... constitutional order, as well as the fact that in this year, 20 years of the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia contributes and the role of Croatian defenders in the establishment and preservation of the Republic of Croatia have invaluable importance and meaning, and show the need to regulate the rights of Croatian defenders by special constitutional law. For all of this, I support the draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which provides that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is adopted in the procedure prescribed for the adoption of organic laws by a two-thirds majority of all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76494	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said your colleague Grbić very nicely, respecting the Croatian defenders' contribution, respecting it. And I think today is a very important word that we should have heard today because we had the opportunity to see that our Croatian defenders had experienced humiliations. And on the occasion of our country's 20th birthday as an act, let's say and thank you as the predecessors have said this one act would indeed be worth it. It is, therefore, surprising today that we have heard from fellow opposers eternally grateful. Eternally grateful it somehow seems to me to that Shenoin known to be human as Shenoa said human is thanks water to the top of the sand. And I'd still like to call my colleague Bagarić, we can say what we want eternally or one way or another, but I think he's speaking louder and what my colleague Bagarić said is what you're doing, not what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76496	Thank you. And we're moving on with the debate individually. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76497	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This discussion today of the image of this House may best state the political dishonesty of all that has been heard here today. One topic that our opposition colleagues say doesn't matter. They were full of Croatian defenders' mouths all morning, love for Croatian defenders, and at the same time, when it comes to supporting a bill that basically changes nothing compared to the existing state, there are a priorities against it. However, today’s debate may have been an opportunity to remember how it all went and how some told us at that time that we were not playing war. Because somehow this time of '91. The year remember what was ever of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It was a reserve composition of the MUP and were units of National Protection and some other units depending on what situation it was in some part of Croatia. Real mobilization in Croatia began practically in the 9th month of '91. A year. Then they told us don't play war, it's not so dangerous, where you go etc. She never said to HDZ that she did something or that she was the only one defending Croatia, but it is an irrefutable fact that the link between HDZ and Croatian defenders is simply unbreakable regardless of who liked it or who didn't like it for the simple reason that we've been together since the beginning. And what perhaps, at the end of this debate today, needs to be made clear and it is clear that this initiative is not an initiative of the HDZ. This is an initiative, an initiative from the Homeland War Associations. Perhaps this initiative of the Homeland War Association might have wanted to remind us, and force us in a certain way in that unity that was in '91. A year. However, as we heard the answers this morning at the initiative of the Homeland War associations. Why didn't anyone from HDZ ask for a consensus? So why look for a consensus for something that's white clear and white clean. So should any SDP or HNS or IDS be told what is wanted by the Constitutional Law? Should someone here today be told that some of the rights have been abolished and that on the basis of these reduced rights based on the lawsuits received by Croatian defenders during the period from 2005 to last year, more than a billion compensations have been paid. Those people who were with us in the assembly who were the most disabled and those who were at the gallery, no one should tell them what their rights were in 2001, 2003, and how their rights grew after 2004. They simply felt it in their incomes, felt it in their status, felt it in their relationship with them. And I think turning the chicken upside down today that it wanted to be shown that this HDZ pre-election trick was actually a desperate attempt not to resent Croatian defenders without in principle going against what they're up against. Because if God did not allow them to come to power, the first would be their 2000 Croatian defenders, mothers, births and employees in the state administration. It's just a fact. These are the data recorded in the laws adopted by this High House, and this can also be seen through payments from the state budget. Therefore, colleagues and fellow MPs, masks have definitely fallen today and I think that we from HDZ should again send a clear message to everyone, gentlemen we will not allow any Croatian defenders and family of the dead Croatian defenders to be anyone's commentary coins and political crackdown because don't forget that those who have nothing to say always as a joker draws out a defence register. And why always the defenders? What if we were to pull out some other registers all the time? Let's talk about how many members there are in that number of privileged pensions, and we'll see. But why call people, people got something based on certain laws that adopted this House, no matter what social political order. They have received certain rights and we as democratic and government and the state should respect that. And so what needs to be done clearly in the end, I will conclude with this, say the Croatian Democratic Community supports this initiative by Croatian defenders. To those who are saying that no one has consulted with them, he has not asked them to be a consensus, let them just do what they said today to feel for Croatian defenders and I don't think we're going to have any trouble voting this law at all. Just let them do it, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76498	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Bozo Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, today we have heard a lot of harmonic but also a good number of disharmonic words in this House on this very, very important topic. A fellow Shuker spoke to other colleagues about the consensus, whether or not he needed it, whether or not we should have talked about it. I don't think we're talking about a present from the Croatian defenders here. If we all agree that they created the Croatian state then their place is also in the Croatian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76500	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76501	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bishop, you just said what might have been the taste of this debate from this opposition section of the assembly today. There are always talk of certain privileges and rights of Croatian defenders. It's not a privilege, nor did these people go to war to gain some privileges. They went primarily to defend their country and nothing else. What rights they have after that, that's the decision of this House of Commons. No law could have been passed without the decision of this House of Commons. But I would also like to remind you again exactly of certain periods, it is clear exactly how the political option applied to rights, to Croatian defenders. Thus, these are facts, and simply no one can overwrite as sweetly as they try to speak. Because don't forget that a saying by a former parliamentary representative based on a debate of a representative who was this aggressive this morning, was precisely on the claim that Croatia was an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76502	Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. He's gone. He's losing his word. HDZ representative's club, five-minute debate. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76503	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I have to say that I had a chance to see this debate today and listen to it, and then remember that time in '91, and those young people who came in shoes, who came in shirts, who came in jeans and we couldn't do anything else and we didn't have anything else to give except what they came in for. Most of them came with the intention of fighting for this country. They didn't ask where they were supposed to go, they didn't ask when they'd get the equipment and the guns, but they were ready to go. Many of them never came back. Many have returned wounded, and today many of them have been and have come to this Croatian home, not to press anyone, not to ask, not to beg, but to see people who decide their fate. None of them ever asked for any rights or went to fight for those rights, went to fight for this country. This House has passed the Co-operation Act with The Hague Court, this Chamber, in this House, and that law obliging all defenders and people who participated in the Homeland War and in the government and in the fight commits to co-operate with the Hague Court, also obliges the Croatian authorities to co-operate with the Hague Court. And that law is constitutional law, it's a constitutional category, that law obliges us to report to someone because we've been at war. Is it normal then and logical that the law by which we prescribe and determine certain rights to these same defenders is also a constitutional category? Why a law that prescribes the obligations of Croatian defenders would be constitutional and more important than a law that prescribes rights. It's a fundamental dilemma for me, and whoever suggested it was a great suggestion. And whoever doesn't vote for that law will have to take a good look at himself in the mirror what he's done. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76504	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On Friday at 12 pm, we will vote individually on the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76505	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move on to the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that is P.Z. No. 842, Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure, and on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, we will hold a first-name vote on the Proposal for an amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The secretary of the plenary session will read the name of the MPs and MPs who will declare who is for the adoption of this law, who is against and who is abstention. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The rules of procedure for the adoption of this law require a two-thirds majority of all MPs, at least 102 votes. At the proposal of constitutional law. We'll read now. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please get involved and get nice loudly every MP or MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76506	Djurdja Adlesic – for. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76507	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76508	Ivo Andric – for. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76509	Third, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76510	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović – v, Željka Antunović – v. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76511	It's not usual for a special mood to be expressed here, so I'm asking you to refrain and let us finish this vote. Please, who was it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76512	Željka Antunović was against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76513	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76514	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76515	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76516	Ivan Bagarić – za. . Arsen Bauk – v, Luka Bebić – za. ... [[Applause.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76517	What's the matter? ... Well, I said if you can hold back, please! ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You don't have to make anything special out of it. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, let's move on. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76518	Davor Bernardić -, Goran Beus Richemberg -, Susana Bilić Vardić – for, Mato Biljić – for and two liters of blood.; Bozo Biškupić – for, Dragutin Bodakoš -, Ivan Božović – for, Biljana Borzana -, Rade Božnjak - za, Marin Brkarić -, Perica Bukić - for, Dinko Burić -, Vesna Buterin - za, Karmela Caparin – za, Gari Kappelli – za, Brankica Crljenko -, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec – v, Ivan Čehok -, Zdenka Čuhnil – za, Tomislav Čuljak – za, Luka Denon – v, Miljenko Dorić -, Igor Drmić -, Josip Đakić – za, Šima Đurđević - za, Mirjana Ferić-Vac - for, Stjepan Fiolić – for, Žzdenko Flego – v, Zdenko Franić – v, Josip Frić – v, Josip Frić – Zažica Gražica – Zažica, Zažnč, Zaž
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76519	The first one's Branko, then Stanko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76520	So Stanko said, and Branka read it. Branko Grčić – v, v, Stanko Grčić – za, Boro Grubišić -, Mario Habek - v, Ivan Hanžek - v, Andrija Hebrang - za, Goran Heffer -, Mirela Holy - v, Mile Horvat -, Zlatko Horvat - za, Silvano Hrjelja -, Danica Hurša - v, Davor Huljak - za, Nadjak Jelaš – v, Ivo Jelušić – v, Boris Žerković - za, Romana Zarković -, Željko Jovanović -, Ante Jurčević -, Damir Kajin -, Zdravko Keluć – za, Nedeljka Klarić – za, Boris Klemić – Za, Za, Boris Žalinko Hrović v.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76521	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76522	Let me read it again to those who weren't at the first. Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Dragutin Bodakoš, Biljana Borzana, Marin Brkarić, Dinko Burić, Branko Crljenko, Ivan Čehok, Miljenko Doric, Igor Dragovan, Ivan Drmić, Mirjana Ferić Vac, Josip Friščić, Boro Grubišić, Goran Heffer, Mile Horvat, Silvano Hrelja, Romana Jerković, Željko Jovanovic, Ljubo Jurčić, Marin Jurjevic, Damir Kain, Zlatko Koračević, Ante Kotromanović, Marija Lugarić, Goran Marić, Zoran Milanović, Boris Miletic, Neven Mivica, Mirdo Mrsić, Zvornir Mršić, Ranko Ostojić, Ivica Pančić, Tonino Picula, Vesna Pusić, Niko Rebić, Ivanka Roksandić. ... I'm sorry, I didn't round you up, it's Niko Rebic, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Zdravko Ronko, Ivo Sanader, Vesna Škulić, Boris Šprem, Šemso Tanković, Marko Turić, Davorko Vidović, Zoran Vinković, Antun Vujić, Branko Vukelić. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76523	The result of the vote is this. It joined the vote by 101 MPs and MPs, of which 69 for, 29 against and abstention 2, the others were not present. Thank you very much. So, the Parliament's session continues on Tuesday at 9:00. We said Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday at 9:00, there'll be no breaks, we'll do as much as we can, a little bit longer, and we'll start with the agenda point Final draft regulation impact assessment law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 844. So 12.7. Tuesday at 9:00. Good-bye and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76524	Now we move to the next point - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on drug abuse, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 835 Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by committees on legislation, European integration, health care and social care. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Drug trafficking and the prevention of drug abuse have been resolved by the law on the prevention of drug abuse brought by this High House, which in the previous debate when certain changes and additions were made, and when the name of the drug law itself covered all drugs. It also means those that do not belong to the group of intoxicating drugs, which it has foreseen, are in line with the European Union Directive in part of the use of the means authorised on the market and for the purpose of treatment. What needs to be said in front of you today is one amendment to the Drug Act, which is a further alignment with the directive, which addresses two important issues. The first question is to resolve the question when the medicinal product containing the substance is transferred to the list of drugs across the border of the Republic of Croatia, who is to prescribe the transfer authorisation across the border and how much of this medicine as such can be transferred. What today's legal proposal brings to you is that it is a doctor of general medicine who treats the patient and who will give the patient the opportunity, therefore, to confirm which will be created under this Act and the Regulation by the minister, and in the amount of up to 30 days of stay abroad, after which, abroad, in the European Union, a medicine for further treatment can be obtained in the European Union. The second important category is to explain that the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse provided that complete records of drug trafficking and drugs containing water through the Ministry of Health and Social Care are to be sent across borders in cases where the Ministry of the Interior and the police are to be sent samples, in which case the central unit at the Ministry of the Interior which deals with such affairs is to be reported every six months by the Ministry of Drugs and Drug Information, which is specifically related to the analysis. We hope that these two provisions are clear enough, and as far as compliance is concerned, we can only say that, with these amendments and additions, it is practically in full compliance with the directives of the European Union which, therefore, are accompanied by traffic and the prevention of drug abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76526	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? European integration? Health care and welfare? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ MPs Mrs. Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the 2001 Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which has been changed in 2002, the third and fourth, 2007 and the ninth. This Law regulates the protection and life and health of humans, the conditions for growing plants from which drugs can be obtained as well as the conditions for the production, possession and trafficking of drugs as well as substances from which drugs can be obtained, control of the cultivation of drugs, measures to combat drug abuse, the system of prevention of addiction and help both addicts and occasional consumers. According to the applicable law, persons crossing the state border as we have heard from the opening presentation of Mr Golem's State Secretary may have medicines that contain drugs based on medical documentation in the amount necessary for personal use and for a maximum period of up to five days. People on substitution therapy in the terminal phase of malignancies also based on medical documentation up to a maximum of 15 days. This medicinal product must also be notified to customs when crossing the state border. The draft law we are talking about today complements the existing in a way to transpose the Schengen acquis into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the 1994 Executive Board decision on the certificates entered in the Convention for the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement which regulate the carrying of drugs containing drugs and psychotropic substances. The draft law introduces a form that is identical to all countries of the Schengen area, and is issued by an authorised physician to the person travelling to the countries of the Schengen area in the amount necessary for personal use and at most for 30 days. The second amendment concerns compliance with the Council Decision of May 2001 concerning the regulation of the transfer of drug samples between Croatia and other countries for the purpose of the exchange of data on analysed samples. To this end, the Ministry of the Interior will set out national contact points for the transfer and analysis of drug samples. The body will report to the Ministry of Health and Social Care every six months on the drug exchanges made. This proposal to amend and supplement the law continues to bring domestic legislation in line with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter 24. – Justice, freedom and security will certainly facilitate the cooperation of all EU Member States in the areas of police cooperation and the fight against drug abuse. This modern approach is incorporated into the additions to the Emergency Procedure Act by the HDZ Representatives Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76528	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76529	Thank you very much. It's actually quite short, because there's nothing controversial about this law. Therefore, these two basic provisions are amended to extend the number of days within the Schengen regime where medicines containing something entering the drug register can be used. And another thing, so this national point. However, the SDP club will support this law. However, it might not be bad to explain something that could create confusion. In fact, it's a little confusingly defined what happens when it comes into effect. So, also what in this period until Croatia enters the European Union. So it is not clear to me whether, therefore, this applies exclusively and definitively to Shengen because if this applies, then this law can only take effect once Croatia has joined the European Union. Because there's one rule you need to bring home the Home Secretary. He'll be here in six months. The regulation of the second by the Minister of Health will therefore be adopted within 30 days after we enter the European Union. So I think we should define that. Because then we'll open up a problem. Why? I think that the register of drugs that contain drugs actually in Croatia and in some European countries is not compatible, that there are a number of substances that are treated in Croatia in one way, and in those countries in another way. The second problem and the other thing that should be defined actually raises the question today what Schengen is, whether or not this law applies to Denmark and France, so those countries that have announced and changed and abolished Schengen at their borders, that means whether or not I have to admit that I do not know how this is treated in the European Union or in the European Union, but should be given answers to these questions, or whether, by the time Croatia enters the European Union, so up to 1.7.'13. the year, or 30 days after, whether, during that period, foreigners in Croatia can comply with this law when it enters into force, because Croatia is not within Schengen yet. I hope it'll be quick. Because it's simply opening up some spaces and misunderstandings, so I'd like to ask the Proposer if he can answer these questions. Because, as we know, part of the legislation, especially criminality is not in line with most of the legislation of the criminal European Union, because, as you know, Croatian legislation does not know the difference between easy and heavy drugs, yet, let's say here, terms such as possession for their own use, but in medicines, until, for example, in criminal law, this termology is recognised, and in most European countries, this termology is recognised, therefore, easy drugs for their own use. So simply because of these misunderstandings and misunderstandings that could lead to this law, I think I should actually, so I'm not repeating the question that I raised. Thank you very much. So the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76530	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76531	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The HNS and HSU Club will support the proposal submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, but here we want to share with you and some of our concerns. It is clear that this very short legal text actually refers to something that at first sight makes it easier to make technical solutions when going out or entering across the state border, when it comes to the Republic of Croatia as part of the future European Union of 28 members, i.e. in the specific case of the Schengen area, which we hope Croatia will soon be an integral part of. However, as counterpart Lucin said, we are not in this sense completely clean, which means in particular in the specific regimes within the Schengen area, that is, when some of these provisions come into force. On the other hand, what concerns us are two facts, the first is that a whole series of world-renowned authorities in the fight against drugs recently announced one opinion and a recommendation to the United Nations that in some ways shocked the world, which is a message that humanity is losing the battle with drugs, or that it is losing the battle in programmes to combat drug abuse. And the other thing that worries us, which is that this is about the law that treats people who are on substitution, so mostly heptanical and methadone therapy, is that the whole system of therapeutic communities is being built up, and that's what key people in the system are warning that there are fewer and fewer people who solve their problems within these communities, because the health system is much simpler and in some way more comfortable using substitution therapy and there are more and more former addicts that we can't even say that the former drug addictions are actually kind of extending to substitution therapy. In this sense, we would like the government to take a more active, or more proactive position in this matter, and to see that the changes to the Penal Code are also understood as opening up space for all those repressive elements of our system to be directed towards manufacturers and distributors, so to drug traffickers, and not towards end consumers, especially in some species, especially in cases of so-called. personal use. This law is so interesting because it introduces these new terms, it may be that we are used to this new term and that we are more likely to think later, and we are deciding on changes in the Criminal Law, so that this terrible problem, a social problem which is not only a health problem, which is certainly a social one, which is an economic one, and ultimately an educational one because many of the people who become addicts leave the system of education, are not qualified or ready to participate in the system, or the labour market, so that the government is headed by that hierarchy, and the pyramids that are defined and socially called in this country to work on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse, so to place itself in a more proactive position. And in the end, I'm going to repeat one more time, the law as proposed is acceptable to the HNS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76532	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76533	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this bill first contains one human thread. It is in line with the Schengen Agreement on drug-containing medicinal products and psychotropic substances, and this is positive as long as the person has the drugs in the amount necessary for personal use for the purpose of treatment or treatment with medical documentation. National legislation in the European Union has a wide range of measures in the use of drugs. For example, many countries of Europe and worlds have tolerated or decriminalized the possession of cannabis, i.e. marijuana and hashish if used for medical purposes. The measures are divided into three categories. The first is unlimited sales, second limited sales and third limited sales without medical supervision and limited sales with health supervision. For unlimited sales, consumer protection laws are in place to control sales, in particular the sale of new drugs and psychoactive ingredients in legal shops or how it can be sold in coffee shops. In the case of sales without medical supervision, the restrictions relate to a certain age of the buyer and to the licensing of those shops that they sell. While with health supervision where it's sold then the laws that regulate the sale of drugs are in force. In recent years, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom have introduced restrictions on the sale of cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine used in the manufacture of amphetamines. In Austria there is a limited sale and... In order not to abuse medical records or possible counterfeits, it requires very close cooperation between police and customs services in the fight against drug trafficking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state of drugs in Croatia is not very good, and I think the alarm bell has been ringing for a long time. The drug problem in our society has spread considerably, and I find it insufficient to arrest as many drug dealers as possible. A global war against drugs and organised drug crime is being waged internationally. More effective measures must be taken in Croatia to prevent and stop drug dealers and drug addicts. Unfortunately, many drug addicts become victims of various drug dealers who establish a slave relationship and force such victims to various crimes. Some addicts are willing to do anything to get their hands on drugs, so they go to the extent that we could follow the public that a mother addict prostituted a 7-year-old daughter just to get drugs. According to some recently published data in Zagreb, at least a ton of marijuana, 87 kg of heroin, 47 kg of cocaine, a few kilograms of ecstasy and amphetamines are spent annually. These data are based on a 9-month study of waste water that reaches the Zagreb central treatment plant. It's actually about the urine analysis of the population in the wastewaters. Such analyses are carried out alongside Zagreb by cities such as London, Milan, Lugana, etc. One of the problems given insufficient attention is also the problem of employees of workers who are under the influence of drugs in their jobs. I'm reading in one diary yesterday, and that's in the Daily List, as a Rijeka employer calls in that people come from the Employment Office all kinds of drugs. I believe that there are things as well as employers who rob and immorally exploit workers. However, all in all drugs for the drug with medical documentation yes, but I am also for the more active role of police in the detection of drug dealers and narcotics in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76534	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Kunst is a short replica more because of the clarification than the opposition to what you said. We are practically speaking in this law on drug use for medical purposes and the right to transfer them within the Schengen area. However, some things confuse me about some of the experiences I have had in certain contacts. Once upon a time I know and as a patient, I was given codeine and codecative which were later banned because of that drug component to say so within the drug and how reliable and lasting it is then. Whether to change the relationship with certain medicines that are in use and later to find that they are harmful. As far as this law is concerned, it is incorporated and ensured that there is one duration, that there will be no change and in such a way that there will be misunderstanding. For example, the experience with our bookie Perkovicka from a television conversation that I watched and the explanations about how she got into such a situation was said to have been used with a preparation on whose declaration the preparation was not written by a component that made her practically rated as a person who used illicit preparations. So, could it be that the case simply does not apply, or that the declaration does not say what should be known, so that in such a way we cross the border into certain problems as it has received certain suspensions, etc. Because that's where you pointed out as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76536	Thank you very much. We won't hear the reply to the replica now. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Bianca Matkovic is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what you State Secretarys said, and here's a proposal here for a law supplementing the drug abuse laws, and it primarily changes to align with the EU, with the Schengen acquis, a '94 decision. on certificates within the meaning of Article 75 concerning the use of medicinal products containing drugs and psychopathic substances. We are harmonising our legislation in this area with a pattern as similar as in other EU countries that the competent authority, or the authorised doctor in the home country, issues a person travelling within the Schengen area and contains drugs in the amount necessary for personal use for a maximum period of 30 days. We also coordinate this with the 2001 EU Council Decision, and regarding the regulation of the transfer and exchange of drug samples between Croatia and other countries, which, as counterpart Klaric said, determines a national contact point for the transfer and analysis of drug samples, thus strengthening police co-operation between our competent ministry and other mines. I have to admit the law itself is short, clear, determining, a little dry, but the subject is very serious. Drug abuse and we ourselves are aware that drug addicts themselves in their goal of getting to drugs do not run over from anything and that sometimes just some drugs are being used. I hope this prevents them from being properly controlled so this won't be another way to get through the system and get their hands on the drugs. This is an opportunity for me to talk about some problems and some of the information that I came up with by studying my own addiction problem, so here if you'll let me have a few words for a second. According to the 2009 UN Office for Drugs and Crime estimates, between 200 and 250 people worldwide depended on intoxicating drugs of which 30 million depended on them, and 250 million consumed some kind of drug. When we talk about the EU, around 13 million Europeans consumed cocaine at least once in their lives, aged 15 to 64. In Croatia, we have about 8,000 registered addicts. When we look at an educational level that tends to get into drugs and that drug is the goal, 15% has just finished or has not finished primary school at all, 69% is the SS, 6% has completed higher school and college. It's usually an unemployed person 42% while 31% has a regular job. As a rule, they live with their parents, it is negligiblely unknown that around 30% of registered addicts have children, so they have someone to worry about, that the accompanying diseases that go along with Hepatitis C, B and HIV, and generally the average age in which addicts die, go back to being 33 to 35 years old. Recidivism is common in people who have had judicial problems, these are 51% repeaters in court proceedings. But I'm telling you all of this for reasons to see that people who are addicts don't overdo it, and neither drug abuse nor drug abuse that have substances in them and can serve them at least in a certain treatment of their addiction. In Croatia, which is very positive and I have to... with my colleague Kunsto in one I do not agree very much made in the last few years. Some 600 different stands and lectures for parents and school workers are held annually as part of regular preventive programmes. About a thousand 300 special programmes were made by officials of the Department of Prevention and Outpatient Treatment of Dependence. And I think that the prevention and non-patient treatment system in Croatia is stable to function well, to keep addicts on treatment, is increasingly due to inadequate treatment or relapse, but I agree that we should work on doing more. Therefore, this bill should be supported, the youth should be educated, good controls should be done and doctors should be well controlled who will issue licences just for the transfer of medicines means up to 30 days across the border for sick persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76538	Thank you very much. Sima Luchin's representative has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76539	Thank you very much. Since we're kind of expanding the subject. I agree that addicts are actually ready for anything but we addicts have to start to see as sick people as desperate, not as criminals. And this significantly determines the entire approach to treatment and socialization, etc. Yeah, fighting drugs is a dangerous and big story. Why is she dangerous? So because you've been here for a few years, especially in Great Britain, where you have great successes, you have statements from the head of the MUP and the police that you should think about legalizing drugs, because the fight against drugs can't actually be won. On the other hand, when you look at the structure of the Croatian story, you have a situation where all police successes are thus over 60% closer to 70% than 60% of the criminal charges filed by the Croatian police are related to addicts, drug possession. And they simply spend the capacity of the police, the prosecution and the courts on what they shouldn't spend on and then there's a fight with big dealers. That is why we must do in Croatia what most European countries have done, which is to distinguish easy from heavy drugs, distinguish drugs for the market or for dealing and for their own use. Until we do that, we're gonna keep going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round, and there's not gonna be any more serious progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76540	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Bianca Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76541	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucin absolutely agrees with you that you should not view addicts as criminals, but as sick persons who need help and put them on the path of healing. But I personally believe that on this path of healing and in that aid that we provide them with methadone replacement means heptanons prolong their addiction and agony. And they'll do absolutely, unfortunately I'm telling you from my own experience. We had a case of addicts in the family so then I know best what I'm talking about, that they'll do absolutely anything and agree to any treatment to be given replacement therapy. We don't consider him a criminal, but we consider him a person who needs help. But in these treatment methods, it is absolutely necessary to take care of the shorter path, not the longer way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76542	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76543	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, like my colleagues, especially Shime Lucin, who spoke on behalf of the SDP club, I support this bill because it is really important to accept something that is quite logical and that EU countries, and we will become a full member tomorrow, ask to be protected from any abuse, even if patients who use medicines that have such substances to be regulated, to be even limited to 30 days if they stay in one of the EU countries. However, as this is about the final proposal, so we can say something broader, and already here, counterpart Kunst has well noticed, that the fight against drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory. What statistics show and what we can all agree on, and unfortunately, we must agree that the use of drugs has expanded in Croatia and that, while we are already passing laws on how to protect the EU from the arrival of drugs or the entry into those countries, whether we have the right, not only the right, but also the duty to protect our country from the entry of huge quantities of drugs, and that is our biggest problem. As our system was set up, that's what my colleague Lucin was talking about, he was absolutely inefficient. Well, when it turns out to be inefficient, I don't know how such a tenacity to push still existing measures, especially in our criminal legislation that didn't produce fruit, which have accumulated, which have led to the dystrophy of the entire criminal justice system, from that police to the penalty system. It is our prisons that are the victims of drug dealers, drug lords, who remain untouchable in this system. The information of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and almost all county courts dealing with this problem are alarming, i.e. by punishing the perpetrator of drug abuse. The data are alarming where it is said that around 80% of the criminal trial is being tried on milder forms of drug abuse, which means that our criminal legislation, that our entire repressive apparatus, which is a trom, but which is expensive and overpriced, will deal with those who should first and foremost be helped, especially by the basis of the Criminal Law, by forced treatment, and only then, by these other measures which have been at war with every legal order, which is prison. How successful was Croatia in catching those who stand on the pyramid of this system, who are constantly talking, and we all agreed that they have already become prominent citizens, who are never drug users and who are really, we can agree with these words what counterpart Kunst said, who simply keep in the slave system of this. And now that they're being punished simply, the procedure is so that they won't be responsible for the merger yet, and that would make it difficult for themselves. They never give up one step above themselves, let alone those at the top of a pyramid that they often don't know for themselves because they're at the bottom of that criminal organization. They never reveal, very rarely, who sold them drugs and thus close the circle and simply the system ineffective because it cannot come and break that pyramid. Croatia is otherwise inefficient in the fight against organised crime because it cannot penetrate those structures. He picks up the last ones a lot. And that's why the system has to be pragmatic, away from any of us thinking that it's socially acceptable behavior, that every single drug use is harmful, especially for that person, for his micro environment, for his family, for a wider community because society pays dearly for the treatment of such persons. Therefore, what I mean is that Croatia is finally imagining that drugs are so worried that even patients cannot enter their medicine into the European Union if they do not have the necessary documents. Medical documentation and are limited only to 30 days of use, to imagine how to sink and kilos of drugs, heavy drugs come to Croatia. Here we repeat very inefficient, and Croatia has to wonder where the drugs come from in Croatia. In this way, punishing those who are consumers, who have become therefore, and the patients will not solve their big, big problem, and it should not be repeated among us that they are mostly young, and young people should primarily be protected, not only by education but also by measures of warning, treatment, and then only by this strictest system. I therefore appeal that, with these amendments to the law, the Croatian Government needed what was so many times and promised to find here amendments to the Penal Code in which we will then bring our criminal legislation into line in this segment, in this chapter of drug abuse and with the law of the European Union, all to be more effective in this monster of modern times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76544	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So he stuck to my ear one quote from counterpart Antičević-Marinović that the system is absolutely ineffective and that it absolutely does not work. I hold it incorrectly because the system includes the entire system and the health system, from specialised institutions and the whole system. I'm just telling you one piece of information that according to the drug lord's register, the number of patients treated has been segregated lately. So the health system, in any case, in that part, maybe this part that you're looking at aimedly in accordance with your profession, maybe it should, in any case, take certain steps, but if we compare the part because the data is interpreted that those who deal with this dishonest work make a few billion euros profit. Then you can understand in that part the difficulty of those who struggle with that problem. But the system in this part of the health care system, I'd say it still works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76546	Thank you very much. We also have one replica, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, Ingrid, you said the system didn't work. I'd actually say talking to people who do that if we lost a little bit of the battle. So, without continuous prevention, without interdisciplinary access to the problem, I think that's the key thing that we're losing the battle because I wouldn't say that nobody's doing anything, I think everyone in their segment is doing a lot, and there's a lot of money out there, but we don't have results, so I can say we seem to be losing the battle. In fact, it is a danger to our area because the transit area, the country between producers or consumers, had an increased offer, each day an increasing supply, every day an increasing type of drug that appears on the market. And we also know the data that when the limit is taken, when it starts with the experiment, it gets younger, younger our children, and that's why it's a danger. And that's why I'm telling my colleagues, no continuous work, no interdisciplinary access, and we're losing the battle a little bit, and that's why we need to ask ourselves why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76548	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76549	So I mainly focused my debate on this criminal law aspect, and I couldn't say, nor did I say that nobody does anything, but what is done in this system is done in the wrong way, because nothing else does almost criminal justice but deals with this problem, and the effects are what they are. The judges themselves are talking, so get that good part out of us so we can do important things. Over 570 criminal offences in our criminal law are found as a basic criminal offence as mild and severe as possible. And so, by misusing drugs with this article of two, three, of several items and those milder forms, our criminal justice is concerned. So let's imagine that. So when it deals with 570 other crimes if it only deals in two-thirds and more than two-thirds of just three, four, or one criminal act, or three, four of its lighter or heavier form. And our penalty system, we have to sort it out, this mole that comes there for the first time, the primary delinquents where for years then, or for a lifetime, they're kind of marked in the light of the pre-determination in spite of the good education of these people and the staff that are in our pen system. I can't give them all those educational, I can't do all those educational tasks, I can't work on their retraining because it's just such a capacity that he can barely put them anywhere. And we practically send them to crime schools because those who were right are usually later reported to us as repeaters, as repeaters, and re-decitators. And that's something that we have here, like that system that we've set up like that doesn't produce results. So let's change it! The crown will not fall off anyone's head, and in particular the waist itself warns you about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76550	Thank you very much. Now the word has a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76551	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I would agree with my colleague Matkovic who said this was a relatively smaller law, but extremely important because this area and the complex phenomenon of drug abuse is really important and requires attention and absolute debate in that sense. But we've had a lot of discussion about this phenomenon in this High House. So every year when we report to the government office on the prevention of drug abuse, and every time, here's the debate today that confirms it we're hearing really the statistics that surprise us. Indeed, here is every piece of information from this number in the world of 250 million but also what a colleague of Kunst has presented, indeed, each one gives us cause for concern and concern. But certainly our attention is focused on what is the situation and in that part of course there are key strategic documents, so the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, the Action Plan, and of course there is a legal framework. It is of course a register that was established in the 1980s. And in that part, I think it's very important to say that this 2001 law that has been complemented and changed on several occasions on the prevention of drug abuse. He regulates, therefore, to protect people's lives and health, drug control, so the conditions of growing plants from which drugs can be... for construction, possession, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the supervision of the cultivation of plants that can, but also by the provision of Article 24 of that Act, is prescribed, so that persons crossing the state border as they can transmit, as they have been able to transpose in accordance with current law. Because we heard that, therefore, people who are on substitution therapy, people who are in the terminal stage of the disease, of course, crossing the state line, in which they can own a drug-containing drug. Namely, on the basis of a valid medical file in the amount necessary for personal use for a maximum period of five days. But also that the persons who, therefore, were on substitution therapy or those at the terminal stage were up to 15 days. That's what we heard. However, in this process, thus harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, we have harmonised a number of laws and regulations and in that part, as we have heard, there are these two amendments. So, this one first. This legislative proposal therefore complements the provisions to be transposed by the Schengen acquis, hence the decisions of the Executive Board of 22 December 1994. So about these certificates and patterns that would be unambiguous and that would fill the family medicine doctor so that they could do it in quality. Because we've witnessed in the past few years that some have gone abroad, so they've been doing their best to carry it. And it was really hard to do, so people when they were sick are really very difficult. So now this is being coordinated and can therefore take 30 days of such therapy up to a maximum of 30 days. The second amendment is as we have heard that the legislative proposal is in line with the Council's decision of 2001. Therefore, regarding the regulation of the exchange and transfer of drug samples between the Republic of Croatia and other countries for the purpose of the exchange of data on samples analysed. Therefore, a single contact point is determined which would be at the Ministry of the Interior, but under the obligation that the Ministry of Interior should report every six months to the Ministry of Health and Social Care. In any case, I believe that, too, this area that we have spoken about and given the seriousness that it will in some way help those who need it and improve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76552	Thank you very much. It is now up to representative Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I think this short bill, which contains only five articles, has been explained and explained by my predecessors and predecessors in their discussions. So let me just briefly refer to something that SDP colleagues have listed as a problem here, how many articles of this Law, when and at what time they enter into force. This short law, which is also the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on drug abuse, has five articles that determine the time of entry into force of this Act, i.e. its application. The fifth article therefore found that the provisions of the article first and third come into force on the day of Croatia's entry into full membership in the European Union, and then we have two more articles left. This is article 2nd and article 4th. So now let me translate what my colleagues have been saying. A pattern is introduced, a unique form for all countries of the Schengen area by which people who need medicines containing drugs or other substances, which have so far been able to carry beyond the border the amount necessary for 5 or in another case for 15 days, will be able to do so in the future after 1 July 2013, i.e. that dose will be in 30 days and on a special form. And then this criminal provision also contained in Article 3(3) that a person who is not on the prescribed form and with the necessary medical documentation will be punished with a amount of up to 10 000 kuna, that is, the provision of Article 3 which also enters into force in 2013. So what I am asking the Secretary of State, too, is whether what now accepts, or adopts these, this proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Drug Abuse, which is now, which will change immediately afterwards, is the establishment of a contact point that is placed in the Ministry of the Interior and which is then twice a year, or every 6 months, as explicitly stated here in Article 3, paragraph 3 of this Article, must be notified, or reported by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And another question, why in Article 4(2), we are giving time, if this should take place immediately, why are we giving time from 6 months to the Minister of Interior to adopt a regulation within 6 months of the date of entry into force, and the Minister of Health, or the Minister of Health, who is responsible for the adoption, or 30 days for the adoption of the rules upon Croatia's entry into the European Union. Therefore, with these two short questions, it may immediately be answered what some predecessors have asked before, I will support the amendments, i.e. the addition of the Law on drug abuse, because they do not require any additional funding from the state budget, they mean further harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and eventually, when we become a full member of the European Union, they will also bring certain benefits to those who, when crossing the border, have to bear with them drugs containing drugs and other substances that have to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76554	Thank you. And now the individual debate of the respected representative Ivan Bagaric follows. Here you go. It's just, I apologize for the failure, she was a replica representative of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleagues are right, you said as many short articles as possible, but I think they're very important. They're talking about substitution therapy that can actually be prevented in this way, it's about preventing abuse of substitution therapy. We know that part of the drug like that ends up on the street in the so-called. The illegal sale, and it becomes a gray number, actually I'd say a black number because surely such ones, in that way, are actually prevented from coming into the treatment system. We know that in most European countries in the treatment of practices, this substitution therapy is short, and then followed by long-term psychotherapy, but we are actually being conducted so-called. Maintenance. And we also know that from the first experimentation, to going to treatment, it's been going on inadmissible for about 10 years, and the successful treatment is actually just proportional to the time it started with interventions. However, in this way, it is actually good that it prevents illegal, because it is exactly illegal, which is what prevents the black and gray market from going to treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76556	Thank you very much. And a response to this replica, respected representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76557	Comrade Bonačić, I agree with you when you talk about the problem where all substitution therapy ends, but let's go back to the provisions of this law and so far the substitution therapy could be transferred across the border, so when we leave the country at the dose needed for personal use in 15 days. By joining Croatia in the European Union, the dose is increased to 30 days, and I also praise this fact that even if it is used, even if it is necessary to use substitution therapy and when it comes to addicts, it will be in a better position than it is so far, and especially when it comes to patients who can carry a dose of medicines within 5 days, which can certainly cause them certain problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76558	Thank you very much. Now with the apology again, the real word is represented by Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My support for this bill, and since the law is not great and it does not create any opposition, then I will take the opportunity as well as everyone here and look briefly at the question of which, of course, the law we have spoken about, and I will certainly look back at some of the discussions of my colleagues from the SDP. I spent my childhood in my little dear Tomislavgrad, and while I was there I almost never met anyone who was taking drugs. I think you were talking about a man who I don't know was somewhere I don't know where so he came back, so he's doing drugs, not drugs, but he was more of a mysterious phenomenon. Does that mean the system worked well there? Now my Tomislavgrad is becoming a drug problem. What does that mean? Does that mean there's a bad system of prevention and protection, and dealing with a drug problem? So I want to say if we start from the assumption that almost 250 million people in the world are using drugs, but that almost 50 million of them are addicts, then neither Croatia is an island, nor can there be, nor can we close the borders, nor can we change the mental circuits of the drug mafia and the power it has. What do we have left? It's not like we have any confidence that we can achieve I don't know about free country drugs or how I don't know what. So... What we're doing now is we're left with a system which, unlike your grades that we've heard here, in my opinion, is effective and that maintains one stability when it comes to prevention and treatment and everything that goes with this vicious, generally everything that carries drugs like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else do we have left? So we're left with education, we're left with family, we're left with school, we're left with a church, we're left with a local community, and we need to work on it. And we need to work on every step and we need to do a lot of steps together. And it's not going to help us, nor is it helping that we and this issue, when it comes to, I don't know, I don't know, the drug debate, that's how we share. While someone from the SDP is talking in a way that nothing works. So, not that anything but around the system doesn't work, the system has failed. So we need to keep stressing that something is not working because, like when we're in opposition, we don't have a responsibility to something that doesn't work. And by the same logic, we're probably responding about that way, here's about what I'm saying, but I think it's a lot more real. So it's up to us to deal with that problem. We deal with the problem of the first cigarette, we deal with the problem of the first marijuana, so don't take it, never take it if possible. And simply develop one policy, I repeat, of family, of school and at every step that our child never comes into contact with the first cigarette or with the first marijuana. In that context, that is our attitude. There are no easy and heavy drugs, but there are drugs because the division in such a way as to justify and, in a certain way, make it a little easier to get into that system, unfortunately, that vicious black circle. And finally, finding that addiction isn't a crime. Well, it's not true and it's not necessary that it's not a crime. Why? Because addiction leads to crime, unfortunately. So, a person trapped with addiction would achieve what he wants? Here we have heard what fellow Kunst has said, which people are able to do, unfortunately, to achieve it. So they can be as addict as much as you want, but they also commit crime. Therefore, we help them absolutely, treat them, I don't know, respect such persons, do everything that can be done to help them, but above all in the whole country is for all of us to build a system that, I don't know, as much as it can prevent everything that goes along with this dangerous fact, and that is that we can't really prevent the impact of drugs as evil that comes outside of Croatia, enters Croatia, I don't know it or I don't know my emissaries and it becomes a problem of course Croatia as well as the whole world. Once again my support for this bill, my support for all those people who fight and carry among other things, I say successfully how successful it can be in these circumstances in the Republic of Croatia with drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76560	Thank you very much. The yellow replica board was raised three times. First of all, Representative Sima Luchin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76561	So I have to admit, I'm surprised by the claim that addiction can be a crime. I mean, like a non-dependent can do a crime, so this addict can do, unfortunately, do it more often because he needs drugs. I think that logic might argue that somewhere in the light of the 300 thousand people in Croatia who have problems with alcohol are criminals. You see, I mean, as well as the claim that there are no easy and heavy drugs. I mean, if you look at the profession in Croatia today, don't go outside Croatia, see what the doctors say about drugs. Look what the cops say about drug criminals. Look what the state's attorneys say about drugs. In fact, everyone in their reports and when they have the opportunity to say something publicly, they say that we need to make that distinction between easy drugs and heavy drugs. As a doctor, you should also know that every drug does not create addiction. Especially every drug doesn't create physical addiction. And there are some drugs, let's say interesting which in the '60s and '70s was on the market that isn't on the market today because they just don't create addiction. So I think we should listen to the profession. I will not take this new example now, the most drastic, and this is the Penal Code where it is gathered the essential what the profession says legal etc. which in its proposal of the Penal Code, at least what we had in the draft, actually suggests that it goes in the direction of decriminalization when it comes to easy drugs. Now, we have a problem with politics, a policy that won't listen to the profession. So if you go to Rome, say, we want to be part of the EU, and if you hold and plant a stem or two cannabiss on your balcony, you won't end up in jail. In Croatia, if you are caught with one cannabis stem, you may end up three years to prison. So I think we need to be clear and honest when we talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76562	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's just too much to explain what I wanted to say and what I said when I said that addiction could lead to crime. So now to explain more would be really pointless, I think, and humiliating. So what, I can't understand that self-dependence isn't a crime? I said that addiction, or an addict, can come into a position more often and easier to achieve, to achieve, to commit some crime, etc., which is undoubtedly, which is an unequivocal truth, so you say whatever you want. The other thing is, you say every drug doesn't create addiction. But every drug opens the door to the one that can produce that addiction. Thus, the person who has never lit the first cigarette in life will most likely not be exposed to marijuana. I was lucky. So, I don't know what's gonna happen to me in my life, but here I hope I never light a cigarette, and I believe nothing more than that. I also think we should protect every child in that context. And I think we should be protected from such wise raids in yellow. And finally, I don't care if someone is going to get caught or not, I don't know if they're intoxicated or intoxicated, or with this much or so many grams, but I wonder what we can do to make as few people actually get in and get into the situation at all to reach out for that drug. I think things should be set up that way and that way to approach the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76564	Thank you very much. Next replica, Honored Representative Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, the system doesn't work, prevention doesn't work, that's the point. Let's let go of the legal system, Bagarić is right, colleague Bagarić is right, we can't close the borders, we can't shut down the addicts, we can't shut down the dealers, but we can do public health actions. But the health authorities for one or two terms are not supporters of public health action. They are not supporters of the basic thesis "Better to prevent than heal". It's not about habits, it's not about a colleague named Bagarić about health care, a colleague of Mayor Vrgorca about his city he was a teacher, it's not about being harmful habits anymore, it's not about what drugs mean, which means alcohol, which Shime said 280 thousand citizens consume alcohol excessively, and another 120 thousand consume alcohol daily. So that's the number of 400,000 citizens. While executive officials are supporters of "Better heal than prevent" we will have an explosion of drugs, cigarettes and alcohol consumption. And that's why the system doesn't work, and because he said shime politics interferes with the profession. And that's why today, Shime, I'm late for the Science Committee, we've withdrawn the laws of science, we've finally withdrawn, because the waist has spoken, let's not, let's not, let's not. Therefore, until we enter the prevention, while there are propaganda promotional messages of type One beer is a law on while Minister Fuchs and this authority and the health minister allow then we are not surprised at the public health indicators. Why do we live a year sicker than EU citizens, why have we killed the number 1 people under 70? Because for the past 8 years, there has been no public health action that suggests the harmfulness of alcohol and drugs consumption. And that's why my colleague Bagaric's system doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76566	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76567	Thank you. Do not convince me how you wanted to say that the system such as the school of course is health such as the Croatian Institute of Public Health, just a little, such as the county level does not work. So don't convince me, don't let them hear it worse, they'll say I'm surprised you're saying it. If they work, just a little bit, and I don't know what to do about what to interfere with, I don't know how you say the authorities here, our ministry is as if they're an obstacle to that operation. So just a little bit, let's remember all the activities that have been carried out in your time and that you've started when it comes to prevention. So, prevention at the state level of prevention, which indeed this ministry has triggered as such. Therefore, I understand that this is an election year, I doubt at all that people have the right to think or think that they think and especially predicate to certain positions, and that is acceptable, but it does not really say that this ministry or people from this ministry is an obstacle to exactly preventive examinations as such and in general I do not know how to improve the health system as such. That's what you know as well as I do. We did not withdraw those laws that you said, but only let them be discussed and discussed and that all people saw what it was about and made all their suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76568	Thank you very much. And the third replica, the esteemed representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the law is related to the EU and thus to a 30-day change, you mentioned Tomislavgrad, then one border area. And I come from the border area, and the fact is that in border areas we have more cases like that. I'd like to ask something else here as a question, the question of informing citizens I'm talking about our citizens who are crossing the border about that certain medicines that contain such active ingredients that fall within the drug category should not be transmitted without medical documentation. I'll tell you what's going on. In the middle of the month, there was a newspaper article that in the area of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County the number of older citizens who are very often unaware that wearing their Normabella, Diazepame and I do not know what they call pills to break the laws, that they can be punished up to 10 thousand kunas. So in this segment and informing citizens there is a need to do something further. Whether doctors prescribe such medicines especially for older citizens to warn them that in case they cross the border, go shopping, or anything, they should have medical documentation and should report both the amount and the type of medicine. So it's another segment according to this law. Therefore, in these segments of law enforcement, it is nevertheless necessary to keep in mind certain things and to do the same things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76570	Thank you very much. Now here's the last individual debate on this agenda point. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the executive authority, colleagues and colleagues. So, there is definitely more and more unfortunately more and more of our citizens of insurance companies who need for a number of reasons medical therapy, which in part contains opiate or opiate ingredients. For this reason, as Goran Heffer said, it is very important to warn them and to point out that the medicines they are taking, and since they need it, when they cross the border, and rarely cross the border, it was Posavina that it was Hercegovina or Western Europe must take not only medical documentation but must report that treatment. But I will return to public health and the fact that all of our parliamentary representatives said that there was an explosion between the other and the drug consumption. So I don't know who's in charge, I actually know who's in charge of the Ministry of Education and Science along with the Ministry of Health, not just for preventive actions, but for education, education, education. 280,000 Croatian citizens meet the criteria that alcoholics are, and 120 thousand are over-drinking, which means 400,000 citizens. Every 4th child in the 8th grade of primary school is overweight because there are no public health actions, because there is no education. Unfortunately, the number of drug users is increasing and increasing again because there is no education in high schools, high schools and primary schools. So I suggest that at least for these 2, 3 months, try to do some thematic session on the importance of educating our students about harmful habits. So, drinking alcohol, drugs and smoking. All of what all colleagues said and from a legal and medical point of view led to the fact that according to the public health indicators of Croatia towards the EU 15 and the EU 12, that they live exactly one year longer, that by the number of cancer deaths they are second and right behind Hungary and that the average age of life, for example, patients with cirrhosis of the liver, is caused by alcohol exactly 50 years when a person should be in power. So once again, because of the lack of education in primary schools and secondary schools and because of the lack of public health actions today, we are witnessing such a large number of our citizens who are drug users. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76572	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will be taken by the esteemed secretary of state, Dr. Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76573	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I am thanking you for today's debate, which she has now given me the opportunity to answer some of the questions that were raised during today's debate and to clarify some of the facts. In fact, I think this is the sixth year in a row in which this House is being adopted and reported on the implementation of the strategy on the fight against drug addiction and drug abuse, as well as the report on the implementation of the Action Plan. I believe that this extensive material that is before you every year certainly does not allow you to follow that material because from today's debate to read and a few things that I think are being denied by these reports and will be denied again by these reports. The increase in the number of addicts in the Republic of Croatia definitely exists, such as in the European Union, as it is in the end and in the world, and as the respected representative said, it is true that they have already said in the world that there is a tendency to lose the battle against drugs. I probably hope that this government or HDZ is not found guilty of losing the battle in the world, as it is constantly said that everything that is wrong in society has come from this government or HDZ, but it should be said that in Croatia the battle is not lost in any way as it wishes to be shown. The battle that is constantly being fought, the battle with new precursors, with new drugs, synthetic drugs, is being fought with that completely modern system where the anti-drug system has to be adapted terribly quickly and it adapts like drug trafficking via the Internet and many other activities. I'll tell you, here's every single time in the media to be publicly published, soon you'll hear, I don't want to be the one to bring it to the public when it happens, it's going to happen in the next seven days, but it's also going to be reduced to a huge amount of drugs that's been seized by large actions so that the claims that we're dealing exclusively with a poor young man who happens to be a little deluded, and we're immediately prosecuted, and that big dealers, smugglers and all the rest of them are absolutely not standing. The facts are like that, and thank God you can already do a lot of things. What's important to say is the following, the answer. The register of medicines in the Republic of Croatia is headed according to the ATC classification, the international classification which is also in all other European countries and to say that registers do not respond, that each other does not fit absolutely incorrectly. As far as the Schengen border is concerned, I warn that there may be a legal expression in the law, but what to say is that whoever has now travelled to the European Union knows that there is no customs duty between Italy and France, Switzerland exists only in the passing part, although it does not mean a member of the Schengen Agreement, is not a member of the European Union, etc. So what we are adopting today is the harmonisation of laws and regulations in the way that the Schengen border will be between us and Montenegro, between us and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in a small part of how it will apply because we also have existing regulations, how medicines are transmitted, as stated by a respected representative that some have been surprised that they cannot carry drugs just across borders or today. As far as interdisciplinary access is concerned, it exists, it exists absolutely, after all, because it was and it was the main goal of creating the Office for the Combating Drugs which united the activities of all resolutions in one of what they would say to an interdisciplinary approach. However, I would especially like to thank today here a representative who cited the problem faced by the treatment communities because every time treatment communities are started to interpret it then it starts to talk on the other hand about the great advantage of substituting therapy, neglecting the fact that substitution therapy should be just one transitional period and that we can freely tell the addicts, patients who are given substitution therapy that should only be part of it until they enter into the actual treatment and treatment process because substitution therapy neither gives treatment nor gives treatment. Today, certain activities have already been launched that within the framework of the office and within the framework of the agreement with all those involved in the procedures to help addicts to make one protocol in which to access, which are deadlines and how to get that which has become a trend, which is a substituting therapy in exchange for entering the therapeutic community. The initiative has been launched, some suggestions are already being made as to what protocols would be and that they will then contribute. What I have to say is that every time I submit a report on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I have specifically stated and prayed that we are constantly holding back the debate in the direction of proving that something weaker is a danger, something stronger. Addiction is addiction, and there's no drug that doesn't cause addiction. I think it was a small and easy way to put it in the heat of a struggle, and actually, the definition of drugs is to create addiction. So every drug creates addiction. To what extent, which species, but that addiction can go from one to another and these are already known facts. You shouldn't talk about it, you should see how it helps. Our courts and our state attorney's office and the municipal state's attorney's office and the county's attorney's office and the police have their own access and protocol, and it's not true that when someone gets caught with a joint that's immediately punishable and that we're full of prisons for minors who have been caught or younger minors with a joint. What this approach is said to them means to go to different programs for those who call themselves that, for whom we are all crying, one catch will be entered into our criminal records, before entering the criminal record and certainly pass a certain procedure when there is a chance that they will not enter the criminal record. But irresponsiblely interpreting some light and heavy drugs, perhaps you should write light, medium heavy, or make more categories, and therefore commit punishment is extremely irresponsible to young people, because those who listen today to this debate in the Assembly will again be mistaken. Look one is for, the other are against, so it's very likely it's not something so serious, we can go and then it's a very bad preventive public health action. If there were public health actions, I call here, I am sorry that some of them were not familiar with this, we have even a week of fighting addiction when we are in public and showing all sorts of actions, from those preventive and thus what was on the Flower Square demonstration of the police in which the drug is discovered and transferred, so that little might be greater interest in this area safe to show you that in Croatia, there is a very serious and coordinated and strong battle precisely to prevent drug access to the other side of the attempt to prevent young people from getting into it. Discussing that something is easy, something difficult, that something should be for a misdemeanor maybe it's parallel maybe now I'll go beyond context. But maybe it's really parallel to saying that a younger adult shouldn't even be responsible for that murder. Well, that's the first time. If it's easier to kill because we have a categorization to match the penalty. Let's not get carried away by that part. Let's not make any action when it went out with the young people to prove I did set the drugs on fire, and I didn't, so we'll support it. Let's all turn together to fight drugs in this system, because Croatia is wearing well, not wearing this way is certain that the situation would be much worse. As mentioned by the representative on the Balkan route, we will always be. The Schengen border will be Croatia's border for the European Union. I'm sure it'll be a challenge. We have a beautiful blue sea border that carries its positive and its negative sides. For this reason, it is clear that the police will have their hands full and it is clear that the public will increasingly respond when the police have one successful action and when a large amount of preventive programmes are seized and how they are brought in. At the end of all things, I have to say clearly and loudly, I have tried to see about direct questions. So, six months of adjustment, the rule is over by my information. However, we have a legal practice to give six months of adjustments so that the system can fully adapt to the new obligations that we are making to this Law and fully elaborate on it, and by the time we enter the European Union here, it is clear that we have 1.7.2013 and that is why we gave these 30 more days because surely the Minister of Health and Social Care will be in the new mandate, Dr. Darko Milinović can at that time have enough time to prepare a new Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76574	I thank the Secretary of State. And we will end this debate by correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76575	Mr. Secretary of State, you don't have the information, and you should have it because the State's Attorney's Office not only in its annual report but also recently on the amendments, or the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which was established by the High Criminal Court, that the public doesn't have the alarming information about this issue we're talking about. Therefore, it is not true what you claim and deny what I said in my debate that Croatia is effective in suppressing those who bring in drugs and large quantities. Here's what the State's Attorney's office is telling you. Yes, precisely for, or for drug possession, the municipal trial goes 70 to 80%, and the county court, where you in criminal law, therefore the government particularly insists on that. What Shime said was that with us, whoever planted one plant is considered a producer and is tried by the county court and has 50% of all charges and convictions for such a criminal act as if they planted plantations. And when did you catch the one who planted the plantation? It's for one plant in Pitar. That's the problem, and that's why we're inefficient. That should be different, because it's also a different social hazard. It's not the same plant and plantation to plant, and it looks the same to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76576	Thank you very much. Here is the final debate on this final draft of the law and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76577	We move on to the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on drug abuse, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 835, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority, 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76578	We are now moving to the next and last item for today's agenda, which is - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 836. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in boxes, and on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we have accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. Therefore, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care, and the reports of the Committee were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76579	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable gentlemen, namely the proposed amendments and additions to the current Health Protection Act, this law is in line with the Labour Act in that section relating to Directive 2003/88 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain types of organisation of working time. According to the proposed law, the time spent on duty and on call is considered working hours until the time in the health care professional’s readiness is included in the working hours. The maximum total weekly duration of working time for these proposed amendments may be 48 hours, and exceptionally due to the need for the service and with written consent of the workers may be longer than 48 hours, in accordance with Article 22. It's a directive. In addition, this legislative proposal provides that the level of payment will be determined until a collective contract for health care activities for work on duty, work on call and the level of payment for preparedness is signed by the Minister's special decision. That decision is taken by the minister with the prior opinion of the union, and the union's consent is also needed for the first and any subsequent amendment to this decision. The opinion, i.e. the consent, is authorised to provide trade unions that gather most of the employees in the activities of health and health insurance established under a specific regulation, and if such information is not available, then the signatories are trade unions which are also signatories of a collective agreement. This law also determines that the activity of the Palitative Care except at the primary level of healthcare can also be carried out at secondary level, which means that it also enables the operation and activities of hospitals, health institutions, and this also means better usability of certain existing capacities. Furthermore, the implementation of this Act does not require additional funding from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76580	Thank you very much. I'm guessing the committee's reporters won't take the floor, so I'm opening the debate. Let's go to the clubs first. HDZ club, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76581	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So the Health Protection Act, as you remember, was passed in a tumultuous December 2008, which was changed and amended on two occasions, and the same law therefore regulates the principles and measures of healthcare, the rights and obligations of persons in the use of health care, social care holders for the health of the population, the content of organisational forms, the exercise of health activities, the supervision of the exercise of health activities. The law also regulates the organisation of work and working hours in the public health service network, and it is important and important that Article 162 of the Law which regulates health care institutions in the public health service network to provide health care in one, two or more shifts in working time, preparedness or duty, etc. Therefore, the above mentioned article is defined as being on duty, so I would say a little bit again, perhaps on call, preparedness or work. So duty is the form of work when a worker has to be present at a health institution after regular working hours, and starts after first and second shifts, or second shifts, and ends at the beginning of the first shift. Permanent preparedness is defined as a form of work when a worker does not have to be present at a health institution, but must be available to perform emergency medical care, and the work on call shall be interpreted as a form of work when the worker does not have to be present at the health institution, but must respond to the call for activity. This came into force on 1 January 2009, however, as we talked in the previous law on the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, so in order to comply with the legal acquis, we adopted the Law on Labour and Labour, which is, of course, in line with a large number of directives, including the one mentioned in 2003 by the Secretary of State. And in that sense, there are these changes, and they say that the organisation of the work and the working time of the public health service must be arranged in a way that the weekly working time includes both duty and work on call, should not be longer than 48 hours a week, it may, with that written consent as we have heard. Another important newspaper that the duty, so the work on the call, is going into regular working hours, which is not. Furthermore, the legislative proposal lays down that, while the level of payment on the basis of work on duty and work on call, that is to say, the remuneration for preparedness will not be inherited by collective agreement, the height and payment, or by decision or the previously obtained opinion of the union, will be determined by the Minister in charge of health, and for the first and subsequent amendment of the decision, the special consent of the trade union. This is the part that I think is quite clear, and here it is, there were certain of course on the board discussions in that sense that this will certainly require additional efforts of the ministry both material and humane, in any case, but I would particularly refer to this second part of the palitarian medicine that will be special, I apologize for what I am saying, since in the name of the club I am speaking, which I will say, which will be especially welcomed in my Koprivnica-Kristevic County, where certain steps have already been made in this direction, because we know that in the matter of palitative, as far as I know it is known that there are certain, something has been done in Istria, as I know and in Osijek, these are my findings, but here I am, this possibility, so far in the primary health, and this possibility of creating a legal framework that this activity within the hospital institution will be published, especially in my hospital, especially in my hospital, and in my hospital care. As early as May 12th, there has been a hospital for paliatic medicine, a clinic for paliatic medicine that includes a population of paliatic patients. The clinic organizes training for doctors, nurses, conducts scientific research, and introduces new methods to improve the quality of life of palitative patients, therefore various procedures that are listed. In the infirmary, a specialist doctor is particularly educated in paliatical medicine and pain treatment, as well as a nurse to receive patients and documentation. And otherwise, the very activity of paliatical medicine would in some way imply, implies the Paliatical Treatment Department, the second, which is why I said the clinic for paliatical medicine, the third living room for paliatical patients, the day hospital in some way, and the fourth, therefore, hospital palitative team. I said something about the infirmary, but the Paliatical Treatment Department. Therefore, the necessity of organising the Paliatical Treatment Department stems from the fact that paliatical patients are being cared for by acute hospital departments by doctors who do not have any adequate training for working with paliatical patients, and therefore necessarily results in the creation of unnecessary and additional costs resulting from the surgery of unnecessary tests and excessive over-ordination of the most unnecessary and inadequate therapy for paliatical patients. The organisation of activities for the palitative medicine of predominants and the creation of a team consisting of specialists, educated in palitative medicine and pain treatment, a social worker, especially educated in working with paliatic patients, so full-time psychologists, especially educated in working with paliative patients, also first-graders of the sorority, particularly educated in paliative medicine and communication skills, and mid-sisters educated in working with paliative patients. The quality of the service provided to palitative patients other than the training of staff working in the Palitative Medicine activity must provide a sufficient number of staff which I would therefore have assumed in a way one nurse, bed. The objective of the Palitative Medicine Department is therefore to provide health care to patients with paliatical disease primarily to improve the patient’s psychophysical status and consequently to improve the quality of life incurably ill patients. A good assessment and adequate therapeutic approach make it very important to mention the rationalisation of drug and material consumption and expensive diagnostic procedures in other clinical activities in the hospital. So in conclusion I would say for a maximum of 5% of the total numbers, we see this in some way, 5% of the total number of acute beds in the general hospital should be available for re-use into the palitative, and continue... the ability for each hospital to assess cost-effectiveness itself and the percentage of the total number of patients' beds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're entering this percentage of the afternoon stay as mentioned. The living room itself for paliable patients is an organisationally connected area with a paliatical medicine clinic and is supplied to the hospital within the range of health care services to a paliable patient. A number of paliative patients require extended ambulatory treatment and therapy and, if necessary, a consular examination of other hospital specialists is available immediately. In the living room for palitative patients in the living hospital, staff who are working on a daily and weekly schedule at the Palitative Medicine Hospital. I've done a little work so far, but I think it's very important to say that because this is about a certain let's say a step that in some way would make this area... Secondly, a palitative hospital team would imply in some ways, it is expected, given the average age of the population and the incidence of incurable diseases, to use part of the acute hospital facilities to provide health care to paliatic patients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, the hospitally palliative team detects and evaluates such a patient, and in coordination with the Palitative Treatment Department, directs such a patient to the Paliatical Medicine Activity System. If this is not possible, the palitative team shall monitor the condition of the patient until transfer to the Palitative Treatment Section and shall actively participate in its management in the acute department. So I especially wanted to point out this area as we all face it. Of course, that first amendment, too, will support the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76582	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Now, on behalf of the SDP club, the word will have a respected representative, Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The truth, as counterpart Milinkovic said, is that the law is the one relating to palitative care significant progress,... I don't know if it's the primary, but he's lucky he's coming from Koprivnica, a town where Racan's government started a great project, a county hospital project. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a shame the executives for these two mandates didn't continue. Thanks to her living in Koprivnica, a town called Koprivnica, so they have excellent emergency care, have a great palitative center now, they had a great model of what a county hospital should look like and it's a pity the executive in the last two mandates didn't even think about it. Otherwise today they would have emergency medicine like in Koprivnica or on Rebr, otherwise today they'd have palitative care like in Koprivnica or on Rebr, and unfortunately equipment was bought, magnets, cts, angiographs for hospitals that didn't have surgeons, and unfortunately it happened. I would ask nicely, just now I asked Mrs. Jadra and Mr. Secretary of State to eventually either consider or allow the centres for palitative care to be made possible at the tertiary level. So also at clinical hospital centers. Why, as Col. Milinkovic made it very clear, because it is an interdisciplinary team, so to allow the university and the KBC or the University Hospital tomorrow that they are the very ones who are schooling everything they need for palimatic care. So, both the doctor and the nurse and the physical therapist and the social worker. So my opinion and my request is that you eventually put a tertiary level or recognize centres of excellence. A fellow Secretary of State Jurkovic is absolutely right about a new law that will talk about the working hours of us health workers, but of course he is wrong because he says that implementation will not require additional funds. Not this written implementation, which is part of the harmonisation of EU gains, so the acquis, but everything that will come out of this law, which means trade negotiations with trade unions, additional pay-offs, huge pay-offs, will certainly put a heavy burden on the state budget. So, it won't burden this paper, but it will burden the consequences of this paper. Which means, colleagues and colleagues, and there's a lot of health workers, that everything we've been on duty and what we're going to be on duty in the future will go into business and fit into 48 hours. He further says the bill: "Extremely due to the need for work, the maximum total duration including that work on duty," and I am on duty once a week, on a monthly basis 4, 5 times, is too much, "including working on duty can be longer than 48 hours with written consent of workers." The duty is not invested in the education of health care professionals because if it was invested in the education of health workers and the number was rising, it would have been as much of us this year as possible. Well, that's the consequence of Croatia, today. If we're going to expand the subject, every fifth unemployed in the City of Zagreb has a high school, a master's degree or a doctorate. Why? Because people who don't need the labour market are being educated. Instead of schooling who? Doctors, biochemists, medics, because they're missing, to make switch through the Science Act, so that you're teaching those you need, doctors, health professionals, to train electrotech students because they need Ericsson, Nikola Tesla and ICT, to educate people who separate from their parents and stand on the labour market. This is due to the lack of vision and misunderstanding of the mission, for example, the Law on Science, i.e. the Ministry of Science or the Ministry of Health. And that's why the fact that there's going to be a big problem when this law is implemented. They won't have anyone to work with if this is respected. There are two reasons why they won't have anyone to work with. The first reason is the privatisation of health care that has been made in the last few years, two years, so because a huge number of nurses, doctors went to private institutions, where they do not attend, do not work, are not prepared, and they can do their work day, and those who stayed in hospitals will not be physically able, physically, and now legally prevented from working. And all of us health workers work for enthusiasm and work because we love our jobs. So A, the consequences of the non-expansion of the quota of enrolment in medical schools, including the Faculty of Medicine, the University of Pharmacy, and higher schools, i.e. the School of Medical Nurses and Primates and B) the departure of health professionals from the public sector to the private sector, or the trend of privatisation will lead unfortunately to the absence of health care professionals, i.e. they will not be able to do their mission. And that's why, if we're already talking about the profession, and it seems to me that today all afternoon we're talking about the profession, the profession has sent an appeal, the alarm if the privatisation trend continues, the Croatian hospital's health care will become poorer, and private clinics will only become available to citizens with a deeper pocket. So, lucky the elections are coming, so the new executives will talk to the unions. It is unfortunate that the previous executive authority (a) did not talk to the trade unions, (b) what she negotiated, she negotiated a rise in salary returns if there was a two-fold increase in GDP which unfortunately has not been achieved, that at least it was achieved and c) The Economic and Social Council has not been functioning for almost a year and a few days. It is fortunate that the elections of happiness are coming that a new Economic and Social Council will finally be created and I am convinced that our unions will at least respect the opportunities to negotiate with the executive authority and thus understand the situation we are in. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76584	Thank you very much. Now two more corrections to the incorrect quote have been reported. First respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Ostojic said thanks to Racan's government, we in Koprivnica have great health care and emergency medicine, and so on as far as I understand it. I'd say that's incorrect. If Racan's government helped, I'm grateful anyway. But thanks to the governments since 2007, here after Racan's government over 200 million kunas invested in the hospital system, internal building and all other segments. And thanks to Minister Milnovic, he was sort of rescheduled in a hospital budget, a stable hospital because it is a prerequisite for being created. But you said one thing that I agree with, that I'm lucky to come from Koprivnica, I don't come from Koprivnica I come from Gola but I'm lucky to work there and work with doctors who are exceptional experts, who are enthusiastic and thanks to this enthusiasm here comes this palitative medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76586	Thank you very much. And the second correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. A colleague stated that the lack of doctors and general health care personnel is a lack of science. Namely, I would dare say that it is incorrect that it is just that, because many are broader aspects of the reasons for the lack of doctors and healthcare professionals in the Republic of Croatia. And we need to know that this case is not only in the Republic of Croatia but in all European countries and even in America where they say that by 2020 I think there will be 200 thousand doctors missing. So surely, compared to European countries, this problem is more pronounced in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76588	Thank you very much. And the last reported club for discussion is the HNS-HSU club on behalf of the club representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76589	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act that are now on our table one are in a series of amendments and additions to this legal matter that relatively rarely occur in the Health Protection Act, but this is not a compliance with any European acquis this law does not experience changes only in order to comply with our Labour Act. The second part of this law which has nothing to do with the Labour and Acquia Act but in its own way improves the health system because it is arranged to provide, among other things, the activity of palitarian care. That part isn't controversial to anyone at all. Neither one who understands the health care system nor one who understands the social protection system in Croatia and many others, where it has been something that has been inefficient in the Republic of Croatia for decades. So we suffer criticism that our system does not recognise the need for palitative care especially in those cases that this law defines or recognises by the term of the dying. And this is especially important in the smaller environments in the environments that are mostly rural in environments where all the burden of caring about the dying practically on families. So it's not questionable and it's entirely to support. We only hope to be a bit skeptical in view of the situation that there will indeed be the strength to define the activity of palitative care not only as an option but also to implement it in reality, or to establish as many institutions as possible in the existing system as possible. However, where we are particularly skeptical and where we notice housing autism is the first part of this law to define working time in a new way, including duty and work on call and where the need for new collective bargaining can actually be opened by Pandora's box. It is as if we are forgetting what will happen on July 1st 2013 as if we are forgetting what the principle of freedom of movement is between others and people in the EU and as if we are forgetting what problem the health system is facing almost all EU member states at this time. It is neither technical nor material but primarily human nature. And with the right of fellow Caparin, she is the number that should be concerned, as the entire EU is concerned, so must we. Because we need to know that because of the level of standards due to the level of wage levels, one part of health care professionals will surely look elsewhere for happiness and better wages. How ready we are to face and welcome this situation, or we will repeat the mistakes of some other countries that have entered the EU, whose health system has experienced a very difficult staff devastation and where it has proved that only private healthcare institutions have the strength to retain the existing position, because they operate on another principle, can negotiate pay policy differently and thus can retain their staff. The public health sector everywhere, in all Eastern European countries that have entered the European Union, suffers major humanities. Hoping that we will draw the personnel potentials of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, someone mentioned some other countries, Ukraine or perhaps some fourth or fifth ones is quite naive. It is quite naive because these countries are the human potential practically for the entire European Union, i.e. for the health system of the entire European Union. It is these days that we have the opportunity to see in the newspaper ads of employment intermediaries offering jobs to a relatively large number of health workers in institutions in Germany where people commit themselves to three times the salary, and in the status of care providers, rather than having it here as a medical technician, i.e. nurses or midwives. If we are not aware that this can cause long-term disturbances in the functioning of our health system, then these new provisions that we are offered can lead to a deterioration of the situation, or what Comrade Ostojić said, which is a lack of personnel. We have defined that public health institutions must work uninterruptedly, which means they have to provide everything, and that means both the human working conditions and the provision of all those services that the Health Protection Act has defined as an obligation. Will it be possible in this way, does the system have the means to pay and stop the possible drain of personnel? It's hard to tell now, but we can recognize trends and we can fear them and if we're afraid of them, maybe we'll have enough sense to confront them if they're negative. But what we all need to be aware is that we are about to have one of the most difficult periods in the entire history of the country where the entire public sector will come into great temptations. Integration into the European Union is not a painless process if it is taken lightly. If there is not a high enough level of responsibility to all the challenges and not only in this activity, in a whole series of others, countries that entered the European Union before us, which have negotiated poorly, which have negotiated in a way that shortened deadlines and agreed to unverified conditions today face a whole series of problems, but there are trends that we can Anticipate. If colleagues with right for years point out that the existing system of higher education does not produce sufficient staff of health activities and nothing is done on the matter that this situation is changing, then there is a logical question why we are doing it. Is someone doing this thoughtfully or are we so insidious that we are so irresponsible to the future? It is generally known how long the education of a doctor takes, doctors would practically say all their lives, but to get a doctor into an office or hospital takes very many years, very much resources and very intense work. If we don't realize that, then to decide today on other registration quotas in medical schools in the Republic of Croatia, the first effects would not be seen for 8 or 9 years. Are we aware of this, have we coordinated our elements of the system that should be responsible for leading one common policy? We don't see it and I fear it. We are afraid of such an approach that individual solutions are just being brought in paliably, that they are not harmonized and that the final picture is not actually visible. That's what we're afraid of and what we really need to change. To think strategically, this is what we need, not only in this activity, but in the health care system in particular. It is one of the systems that is most frigid when we talk about integration in the European Union, it is one of the systems that is most easily devasted by human resources, it is one of the systems in which many capacities are already overworked precisely because it is an activity that needs to function constantly, and the staff is getting smaller and smaller. There's a lot of problems that just swept under the carpet and that's just about to explode. We regret that there was no higher level of social responsibility to deal with these problems and these issues if we look anything else in the eyes a few years ago and that the last two mandates of the HDZ Government were not used for this. It would be a lot easier for all of us. So much will come at once, I remind only that there are some 600 laws in the sea, which the Croatian Parliament has adapted to the acquis, that more than half of them have provisions that enter into force on the day of accession to the European Union. Imagine what it will actually be a functional shock on July 1st, 2013 when overnight operation occurs entirely according to new models. We would have been much happier if the government had been aware of that and had prepared us to do so responsibly. Nothing's a bogeyman, it's not something we had to avoid. On the contrary, we should have done it sooner, we should have been more determined, we should have cut deadlines, and we should have had less... But we need to be aware that we are facing a time of challenge where politics has no place, but only work, work, work and for a long time nothing but work. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76590	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported a respected representative, Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. So here's after the debate of my predecessors I'll return to the law that's before us, the Health Protection Act, but here's only before that a short time ago. A lot has been done in the last two terms since 2003. I really wish that apart from the constant criticism that way would say something good, it wouldn't hurt. I do not agree with you for saying that the law that is before us is not a harmonisation with the European Union primarily because it is in line with the Labour Act which is in line with the Commission directives and with the acquis of the European Union. It's a system of connected vessels. So we can't drag it too far. First of all, this Law and this proposal, which is ahead of us, refers to the application of the European Working Time Directive, as the Secretary of State said, that time spent on duty and work on call is considered working hours. We know ourselves there are three levels of health care – primary, secondary, tertiary. We know what it means every now and then that I don't explain anything further. But I'd like to mention those four principles of primary health care. The comprehensiveness means adequate healthcare measures for all citizens in accordance with the law, continuity, the organisation of continuous health protection of citizens of all ages, availability, the schedule of health institutions and healthcare professionals in the Republic of Croatia that allow citizens to have equal conditions of health care, and the principle of full access, which means free choice of doctors and dentists, and with the aim of preventing disease, improving health. Because of this principle of availability, I do not think we should be afraid of the outflows of our brains into European Union countries as soon as we become a member of the European Union and neither of the arrival of brains in the field of medicine or of any other area in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has a quality frame, Croatia works on education of its staff and in the field of medical science. So I wouldn't talk about some kind of fear, about opening the borders. And you're right about the freedom of movement of workers, chapter two that was negotiated allows freedom of movement, freedom of employment. Where more people will be paid to go. But we must also be aware, so by their qualifications, they will be able to choose by expertise. But we also know that most of the new member states have shown some kind of transition periods in the last 15 years of European Union practice. Therefore, transitional periods do not need to be feared. But precisely because of this principle of availability, I think it is necessary to adopt this Health Protection Act because, according to him, it means that, due to the need for work, the total duration of the weekly working time can be longer than 48 hours with prior permission and consent of workers. The law also determines that the health minister will, with the previous opinion of the union, determine the amount of payment on the basis of work on duty and work on call. All that until it's settled by collective agreement. It's not a collective bargaining for a newspaper. It's not something that's constant. Depending on the changes in legislation, it is also being negotiated. So whoever the government is, what a colleague said was a new government. Anyway, after the election, there's always a new government going. But here's what I hope is the continuity that means taking care of it. So according to the laws we bring to this High House. The law regulates what Col. Milinkovic said about the fact that the activity of paliatical care other than the primary level of health activity can also be carried out at secondary level. I trust the Secretary of State when he said that the law does not require additional funding, but that it is a alignment with part of our legislation. So chapter 19. - Social policy and employment. However, I would repeat again as someone who has been here for many years has been in executive power. We do not make laws because of the European Union. We are passing laws because of, therefore, European laws because of a better standard for Croatian citizens. I will therefore also support this proposal for a law that is ahead of us of the Health Protection Act, and primarily because it regulates the principles and measures of healthcare, the rights and obligations of persons in the use of health care, social care holders for the health of the population, as well as organisational forms of performing health activities, and supervision of the performance of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76592	Thank you very much. Next in line is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I would just like to take a very short look at this problem with the number of doctors in Croatia and some comments from our colleagues who have been brought here. It was said, therefore, that we are aware of the problem Croatia is facing. I repeat this again is the problem that all countries in the world are facing, and among other things, because more and more of the population, unfortunately, is older in terms of Croatia, it is good for people to experience deeper age but it is not good for us to have little or not, according to this census and generally when it comes to young people's ethnicity. But also because of the increased need for health services as such. And so that's one of the reasons why we come into one discord in this relationship, why this discrepancy is because of the need and condition of the number of doctors. Doctors cannot be provided differently, nor do I intend to compensate for their potential loss in a way that or I don't know how to educate anymore, produce more doctors or activate doctors who are retired but who are in good health, who are quality doctors or bring them outside. And there is another fourth way, which is to make the doctor redistribute in the territory of Croatia. For example, there are works, published works that speak of this great difference actually at all levels in medical care, in the number of doctors per 100,000 residents, whether they are general medical doctors or specialists. And even within certain health institutions, so you have to take care of it and take care of yourself. Because as it is published, as it is written, and as it is actually spoken of, it is spoken of with the aim of regulating or dealing with the problem. I would add that it is very important to achieve the necessary standards. So this ministry is trying to do that, too. It is known that, therefore, the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency has been established. And it's not just a question, when it comes to accreditation as such and attainment in the quality of health care, achieving the very standards of quality as such, but it covers between the other and this problem, the problems of both people and people, that is, the staff, and in any case, the ministry has a policy that looks at this whole problem, and I think that it will actually, in fact, come to an end and now, and that it will come to an end and future with this problem. Normally, I would like to open Croatia's borders on one side tomorrow by entering Croatia into the European Union and those who want to enter Croatia through the European Union, but also those doctors, i.e. medical staff in general, so regardless of who it was or more or lower personnel in Croatia as a country that will be attractive tomorrow, it opens up a number of issues and this moment should be thought about and should be aware of. But from what we actually see, what we know, what we can follow, I believe that Croatia will not avoid this problem, so the problem of the number of doctors, because I say that all countries face this problem, but I have no doubt that they will find a way to deal with this problem. Here is the support for this bill, as well as support for policies that will provide a sufficient number of doctors, quality doctors who will continue to implement quality health care as well as so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76594	Thank you very much. It's two replicas. First respected representative of Dragutin Bodakoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So colleague Bagarić talked in his discussion about some kind of redistribution of the doctor, from even introducing doctors who are retired until I tell the import of the doctor, or the possibility that these doctors who are outside of Croatia are on conditions that we have here and work on. One word comes to the fact that the thesis set by Professor Ostojić, that there will be no one to work physically for all of this, but also because of these legal provisions, is the question of whether the situation will really happen in this situation and whether there will be a possibility that because of what is now both duty and preparation will be paid, whether there will be enough of those who will have a doctor who will work regular working hours, means serving those gro patients who come in working hours. What happens if I don't know someone who doesn't look like the boss, so he puts them on three alerts within that salary, and at the same time, what's called, individuals work on regular hours, and both work within 48 hours of working hours. So whether this way will allow for better work and greater opportunity for these doctors to do their job or not to think that with, related and what will happen will happen to both trade unions and all these payments that there will be more problems, not less with these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76596	Thank you very much. And another replica, respected representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76597	Thank you very much. My colleague Bagarić, I agree with you when you spoke about the quality of Croatian doctors. Well, I also agree with that claim when you said we might have a sufficient number of doctors, but they're not very distributed. As a rule, they were held in large centres because the clinical centres usually take young doctors, especially if they still have completed specialization, and then the rest of Croatia are left without a doctor. However, when we talk about salaries in the health system, or about receiving in the health system, maybe we should talk once, now this law changes everything that goes into pay, but let's not forget that even so far, duty and alertness have entered the retirement foundation of the doctor in Croatia. So far, when we talk about small wages, wages may be small, but receiving doctors in certain hospital centres are certainly not small, so pay should be distinguished from receiving. With these changes and the State Secretary's additions, if I understand correctly, now this all goes to pay and then we can, then we can talk differently, but their wages will be higher, so they won't be reduced, and yet they will increase, and then I can throw out these receipts, although let's not forget the extras that have been added to health care workers under collective agreements, and that's why I'm stressing these receipts, and I'm glad that because of the quality and due to these changes of the law, they're going to increase the salary. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76598	Thank you. Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would agree with the bill's proposal, where the maximum duration of working time per week includes 48 hours a week, and including duty and time per call, of course the preparedness is not included, which will be seen later in the agreement with the union on how preparedness will be, and ultimately, the duty coefficient will be. True, it is not true that you do not think strategically, that you are not thinking responsibly etc., it is certain that it is a good thing for the doctor himself, that you can really not say it, because the doctors knew for two or three days that they were in the hospital, that they would not leave the hospital and then we know that already after one duty, the doctor’s concentration really falls and that it can be counted as having one and a half changes in alcohol. A recent study was very interesting, where doctors, the same doctors who did colonoscopy after duty, and who did, say, colonoscopy in the morning. So the number of cancers from the same doctor was higher in the mornings than it was in the afternoons. So it's just saying that his concentration is lower, that he can't work as concentrated as he does in the morning, and that it's fatal for the patient. So what now, if we pass this law and we have to look back, I'd like to be self-critical, just look back at what my colleague was saying about the doctor's work on the possible redistribution. We can figure out that redistribution in any way, but I'd say we all have to look back at the places we work. For example, I can tell you that you have what I know 10 to 12 surgeons, that of those 12 surgeons you know very well that two, three work full-time and that their specialization exclusively says that they are doing surgical work because society really invests a lot, more than 100,000 euros for its specialization. While on the other hand, you can see that some people occasionally enter the operating room or, say, a month don't even enter that operating room. So society financed him to get in, to specialize and enter that surgical room, so he could operate and take care of the patient. What we should consider in the future is how to pay for such a doctor, which is used with a full satin and for which we know how much to operate in a month, so we should certainly pay him more than this doctor who enters once, twice or three times in the operating room in a week or say he doesn't enter once a month. What's going to be a big problem for us and what we need to organize in hospitals, and that after 48 hours, you're out of the hospital, that whoever's operating that he's no longer in contact with the patient he's operated on, that simply if you haven't been in touch with the patient for 2, 3 days, you don't know how his disease develops. This is, in my opinion, a huge deficit, but this should be compensated by the transfer of service, better organisation and better expertise of colleagues. The lack of doctors in both Croatia and other European countries is known and this is not news. At the end of 2005, the Croatian Medical Chamber, in colleges, has enrolled some 3.5 thousand students in 4 Croatian medical schools, and 13 thousand students are enrolled in eastern countries. Thus, in Eastern countries, they face the unemployment of doctors, and it is inevitable that when we enter the EU, that is to say, by favouring employment in the absence of doctors that these people from the east will come, especially because they do not have a language barrier. In the Republic of Croatia, 20% of the number of doctors is currently higher than in the EU. And after joining the EU, 10 to 15% of health care personnel leave the country. That went away from every country that joined the EU. What we face is that 600 doctors retire annually. 300 doctors from hospitals go to other jobs and annually graduates from 400 doctors. So that's one discrimination about how many of them are leaving, how many, among them some unfortunately, are dying. And so that's the problem with the lack. The Chamber also stressed the need for a national strategy to combat shortages of healthcare professionals. Some European countries have done so, and I believe that in the future we will have to think about it, because ageing of the specialist population as we know it, doctors are going to retire, the doctor's migration has become larger. So we'll really have to think about it in the future. What some have stated is that doctors are leaving due to pay, reminding me of a health care workers strike where doctors have just been shown not to ask for equalisation of salaries with EU salaries. This is exactly what they were able to make up for with their duty, their readiness. Remember that with basic salary, the doctor is sometimes on call, and there is also when he is not on call and alert. Thus, when compared with other professions and other wages, money is not negligible. For example, doctors sought better working conditions, better quality and safer equipment, less working hours, which has now been adopted, better organisation of work in health institutions, insurance against professional responsibility, more correct public relations and media towards them. So that's what doctors themselves insisted on. A lot has been done lately, and I have to stress in the last 5 years the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has paid 5 345 interns of which 2 223 doctors of medicine. In the last five years, the ministry has approved 2,904 specializations and rope specializations. A lot of things have happened, but you have cases, an example in my hospital in Bjelovar, you're calling for an internalist, for a gynecologist, you're giving an apartment, all possibilities aren't reported by any interns, no gynecologist. You just don't have it on the market. Even when you're offering specials, there are no people who will report to the specials. So I think we should open up other universities of this 4, not just Zagreb, increase the number of students enrolled in medical schools. I know it's gonna be hard because teachers are older. So, even when a professor retires, it takes a lot more years for someone younger to gain that experience and replace it. But anyway, it's good to think about it and be working on it. With all that, let's not forget the patient we're here for, and this law in some way, I have to say, he's going to hit a patient because every day his doctor won't be quite available to him as boredom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76600	Thank you very much. One is a replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the end, a colleague pointed out that the lack of a doctor does not solve even by giving specialization. I can see an example of a Vinkovska hospital highlighted as one of the examples so that both housing solutions and specializations managed to solve and solve these problems, even doctors from Osijek come from other environments and so if you want to get something, you have to give it. So it's obvious that the doctor can still be found, but in what way, so it's all to be stimulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76602	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In that sense, I think we should bring this National Strategy just for that frame, and on the other hand we're going to have to do, look each other in the face and tell each other how much it works. Because if you have so many hospitals on so few miles like Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Čakovec, Virovitica, Pakrac, then we really need to dismember and see if all these doctors in those hospitals are used for what they're paid for. And that's the only measure in me. Work, work, the work you've done, we'll pay you. If you don't get quality there and if it doesn't satisfy it, if he doesn't work and he doesn't have a job, let's say he's in some way gonna have to go to another hospital or he's gonna be out of a job. It's one of the options. Of course I'm not for it like I used to be told someone went to another hospital. Absolutely not, but he'll be forced to do his own job. At the end of the day, it is possible to find out why someone was fired, why he did not work, how much work and online everything is obtained, so that no one in Germany or Austria will ever get such a doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76604	Thank you very much. Here we come to the very end of an individual debate. The last registered respected representative, Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a colleague. Here's the law of compliance with the Labour Act, and we see what our working week is, 48 hours, duty goes into business hours, preparations don't come in, the payout height of course until the collective contract is arranged by the minister. I would like to welcome the palitative care where it is possible to bring both families and the sick and the dying, especially in secondary health care or in county hospitals. I would actually refer in my discussion to the lack of a doctor. Here we have also seen in previous discussions that this is a very complex problem that we cannot see that one side, that there is a problem in that part that has been paid and reluctant so far and insufficiently used both doctors and apparatus. I think it's time to pay for work and reward the work, and punish the work. But I think they'll think about it in the future. However, the fact is that the implementation of this law is not certain that all this will happen or that much will have to be done in walking and doing in walking. In fact, about three thousand doctors are missing from this one. We have an average age of specialists in certain hospitals passing over 58 years and we wonder who will work. Here is a colleague before me mentioned 4 of our colleges that is Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek where we have about three thousand 700 students in the environment we have much more. Therefore, we can say that we are expected to suffer from human insufficiency in the future. I would also point out and I think that's what my colleague Caparin said, and I'm afraid this part of the patient's non-monitoring if it comes out on duty, so it's already being completed for 48 hours, and now there's a period going on when in some cases it's actually necessary to keep track of the patient. I don't know how that's gonna be. I also agree that this is actually a improvement for doctors because on the one hand we remember the inscriptions that were recently, and that's what I think it was from Gračac doctors have been suing to work 360 hours a month, every other night being on call, a half-year's preparedness with regular working hours has been indicated, and that's what doctors have been complaining. What's left of them than going to sickbay. This is, on the one hand, a working week or a working week, a improvement for doctors as said in previous discussions. But I wonder what about our end-users, what about our fellow citizens, our patients? Will they have adequate health care? According to some data, we are the most qualified country by doctors where 2.2 doctors come to thousands of people and it turns out that we are somewhere at the bottom of a scale in the EU. The average in Europe is 3.8 per thousand people. I wonder where the strategic plans are because we have reduced numbers and students and all that. According to what strategic plans are for this state that it is. The doctor’s salary was also mentioned. I would actually agree that there should be even more rewarding for real work, but of course I'm holding on to that reward work, and the penalties are reluctant. Well, here's an example of Slovenians, the Slovenians are exempt from the pay cuts of doctors and professors, because it's some kind of social activity that's important that you say doesn't bring money as money but it brings a lot more from money. I can also say, and I agree with those colleagues who said that we didn't plan well, we didn't plan well on education or that followed some objective situation as it is to actually plan education. So I have to admit that we're irresponsible, that we're not thinking about tomorrow, and that just came tomorrow, it came today. And in fact, we're often in line with different laws, but we don't actually harmonize them with reality. So, I repeat, I'm not sure if we're going to have quality and available health care, which is basically what we all do to all doctors and politicians, of course, what our job is. I'm afraid we're going to solve a lot of things on the walk because today we heard the same thing so that we believe that we can deal with problems. I think we should be responsible for actually solving this so far so we don't get into this situation. And if it were a very complex problem, I agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76606	Thank you very much. And finally, the closing word on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76607	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. Everyone's been a little tired since this hard day. So let me just explain a few things. Namely, when I said this law does not require additional funding. Not only does it not require additional financial resources but compared to the existing legal solution, so on the current Article 162 which enters into force 3.8. That's exactly what we're changing. Thus, in the current article, both preparedness and duty is defined as a regular form of work. What does that mean? This means two things, so first of all fiscal instability by the end of the year would be necessary for the implementation of this article if it entered 3.8 by the end of the year in the budget another 316 million kuna. Therefore, not only does it require not only the additional decision of Article 162a but we also have savings by the end of the year from 116 million kuna, and at the annual level, the literal implementation of the current 162 article means 750 million kuna more. It's a basic collective contract and the current Labour Act. Therefore, the second thing that is very important, given these 48 hours and the literal application of this provision now if both preparedness and duty were defined as a regular form of work, the health care organisation would become almost impossible. So, we now define preparedness as a special form of work, therefore no longer as a regular form, and duty remains as a regular form of work and it is in accordance with the Labour Act, but not only with the Labour Act but also with Chapter 19 of the accession negotiations. So that is the law that is the law of compliance with the provisions of the European Union. Also very briefly, the thesis here was again unbound for these amendments, these legislative amendments to this Article 162 on the privatisation of health care, etc. I would only remind myself that this government has invested 8 billion therefore in the last three years 8 additional billions of kunas in the public sector, and I would remind you that in the course of the procurement of equipment again for the public sector is 825 million kuna, so only 9 linear accelerators, not to mention more. Not a single ultrasound, nothing really went into the private sector, it all goes to the public sector, and we really have a whole series of arguments, not to repeat them, because the minister, and I, too, have said several times behind this speaker a number of arguments that we have been strengthening the public and private sector for the past three years, but also in the organisational sector right now, although my opinion is that the future of health care is precisely in the good and complementary relationship of the public and private sector. The unions and the deal were mentioned. I would still remind you of something, if I were to hope that for a respected colleague and friend of mine, Rajko Ostojić, the doctor's strike does not mean a deal with the unions. This government, in our mandate, has been negotiating with trade unions and amending this article for a year and a half. And behind us, they're really hard, not to say the harder word, which is often referred to as "blood negotiations with the unions," our union representatives who are in contact with us every day, and we've come in a way, of course not with full consent, but we've come to an exit from this huge problem, but not in a way that we're like the Government in 2002 or 2003. I don't like to go back and I don't think you should go back to it, but when it's mentioned whether there's a doctor's strike. With the doctor’s strike, it is much easier for doctors and sisters to find a way out in this situation. And of course, just one more thing, the health reform in Koprivnica is mentioned here. I have this privilege that my esteemed colleague Ostojić, I am sorry that he is not there, reminded me of it, so throughout the term of the Racan Government the only thing that was made and well done, is a single united emergency hospital reception in Koprivnica. It is true, it's well done and we've built the United Hospital Reception Regulation according to it. And that's all from the mandate of that government that's been done. And for this reform in Koprivnica remember a little, remember, even the distinguished English consulting companies were engaged. Let us, gentlemen, such a reform is the only united emergency hospital reception compared to this extensive reform of Minister Milinovic's is at least an insult, if not funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76608	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this final bill. We'll vote on him as soon as we have the conditions. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you very much, and until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-06-0.u76609	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 836, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the session and move on to the announced item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 840 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Justice. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Mr. Zoran Pichuljan, State Secretary at the Department of Justice. Here you go.
