ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78767	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the government of Montenegro on police co-operation was signed in Budva on 17 March 2011. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on police cooperation is set out in Article 139(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The co-operation of the police of the two countries so far has been achieved at national level through the cooperation of criminal police, the exchange of criminal data and information, through the cooperation of border police, the exchange of information on fans and sports competitions, and through advisory assistance given by the Republic of Croatia in the process of joining the European Union. The Republic of Croatia and Montenegro confirmed their interest and showed readiness to further promote and deepen mutual co-operation by concluding a bilateral international agreement on police co-operation. The aim of the cooperation is to coordinate actions in the fight against international crime, which is why there is a need for action in this area to be governed by a bilateral international treaty. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on police cooperation establishes a legal framework for the mutual co-operation of the two countries in the field of the fight against crime, which specifically implies the elimination of public security and public order threats, the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences and the state of uncertainty in the control of the state border in the border area and the control of cross-border crime. The Act approving the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on police co-operation confirms that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are satisfied. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia came into force and became part of the internal legal order. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support confirmation of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the government of Montenegro on police co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78768	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78769	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. We have before us the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on Police Cooperation, which is actually one in a series of similar laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which are signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. Although the co-operation of police representatives of the two countries so far has been achieved at the state level which the co-operation... The police are therefore the forms of cooperation and are numbered, such as exchange of criminal data and information, cooperation between border police, exchange of information on fans and sports competitions, and through advisory assistance given by our country of Montenegro in the process of joining the European Union. [[You don't understand.]] I believe that the adoption of this law is important for increasing the level of security of the citizens of both states. All know that intensive smuggling lines of tobacco products, drugs and even people have been maintained in the southern part of Croatia and in the region of Montenegro and Albania. Also known in the media are police actions against those criminal groups that have taken those countries together with Italy. This is why an agreement has been signed to strengthen police cooperation by signatories, especially in the area of removing threats to public security and order, preventing and persecuting criminal offences and the state of security in the state border department in the border area and combating cross-border crime. I would particularly like to highlight a few articles of this agreement that I believe will especially enhance police cooperation. This is Article 6 which speaks of police cooperation in the repression of corruption and other crimes against official duty, Article 7 which speaks of surveillance and deliveries, Article 8 which speaks of the findings of undercover investigators and Article 9 which discusses the protection of witnesses. It is precisely those areas that are most important for the successful fight against corruption and organised crime. The specific area of the agreement is dedicated to cooperation in the field of border surveillance. Representatives of the Border Police of both states are scheduled to co-operate directly in the area of state border surveillance. Also, border police representatives can hold regular working meetings at local, regional, state-level to exchange information, organise joint actions, joint risk analyses, technical cooperation and all other forms of cooperation. For the sake of more effective supervision of the state border, the police may also agree to conduct mixed procedures along the common state border and establish joint contact services. The countries can also agree on other forms of cooperation under this agreement to speed up traffic across the common state border, prevent illegal migration and all other forms of cross-border crime. Also, in order to protect the state borders more effectively, to combat illegal migration, cross-border crime and to prevent the threat of police order, together with the common state border, can work in the form of mixed procedures, which I consider to be particularly important and very important. Although this agreement could actually be said to be a type agreement because Croatia has signed a series of such agreements with other countries, I believe it is an extremely important document whose application will significantly contribute to the security of our citizens and I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78770	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78771	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on police cooperation in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this Act establishes a legal framework for mutual cooperation between the two countries in the field of cooperation in the fight against organised and serious crime, and legally settles fundamental issues related to the prevention, repression and detection of criminal offences of organised crime. This agreement is the result of the mutual desire of the two countries to promote and deepen mutual cooperation that will contribute to improving the relationship between the two countries, and what is the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia in improving cooperation between the two countries is to remove the dangers of public security and public order, the area of prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, and the area of security in the control of the state border in the border area. The main objective is to confirm this agreement is to provide mutual assistance and to coordinate action in the fight against international crime. That is why there is a need for the two-sided international contract to operate in this area. The agreement itself on police co-operation between the two states was signed in Budva in March this year and was divided into eight chapters by its concept. In the first chapter of the Contracting Party, they shall strengthen cooperation in the field of the elimination of public security and public policy threats, the prevention of prosecution of criminal offences, the state of security in the control of the state border in the border area. Article 1 of this Chapter also provides for the implementation of joint police measures from mutual staff and organisational support and may, where appropriate, establish joint teams. The second chapter lays down general provisions on police co-operation between the two countries. The third chapter discusses the areas of cooperation between the police authorities of the two countries and covers the exchange, and the prevention of crime, as well as the exchange of information in development trends in the fight against corruption and other crimes against official officials. In Chapter 4, it shall organise specific forms of cooperation as referred to in Article 7 which discusses controlled shipments of drugs, weapons, explosive substances, counterfeit money in order to identify the contracting authorities and other participants. We've also arranged reconnaissances of undercover investigators. In Article 9, police bodies shall be mutually assisted in the field of witness protection. The assistance shall include exchanges of information, logistics assistance, and acceptance of persons to be protected. In accordance with Article 10 of the Contracting Party, a liaison officer may be referred to the police bodies of another State with the consent of its national, central authority. In Article 11 of the Contracting Party shall cooperate and exchange information relating to sporting events. The exchange also includes the delivery of personal information on fans prone to violence as well as the deployment and acceptance of police teams during the maintenance of these sports events. Chapter 5 speaks of cooperation in the field of state border surveillance. In this chapter, it is regulated that the representatives of the border police of both states cooperate in the area of surveillance and protection of the state border. The use of mixed procedures in accordance with national legislation, joint-contact services, mutual communication and telecommunications are foreseen. Chapter 6 provides for the protection of data in a chapter with officials who regulate criminal liability and liability for damages. Given the nature of the procedure that the state is formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already signed international treaty, and starting with a common desire to improve relations in the field of police cooperation between the two countries, I think this law should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78772	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Vukic talking about the differences regarding the status of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia in certain countries in the environment, so I must say in particular that Croatia has raised the standard of protecting the rights of national minorities to a very high level even for the EU. Many countries in the EU do not have the standard that Croatia has in terms of protecting the rights of national minorities. But what we will be working on as a full member of the EU is absolutely certain that we will work to ensure that the Croatian people where there are minorities in both Serbia and Montenegro and other countries enjoy the same rights as national minorities in Croatia. We'll work on it anyway. But perhaps Mr. Mlinaric was not confused when he said that Croats in BiH are a national minority, because some unfortunately have it in mind to turn Croats from sovereign people into a national minority. Unfortunately, such attempts are on the scene today, so today the legitimate representatives of the Croatian people chosen by the votes of the Croatian people in BiH cannot represent, they are not allowed to represent the interests of the Croatian people in the BiH Parliament, in the right way, to participate in the authorities in proportion to those of their people. Today, such a scenario is on stage, and we in Croatia need to make it clear that it is not acceptable, because it is simply not acceptable. And of course constitutional changes should go in this direction to maintain the consistency of all three peoples the equality of all three nations. And then it will not happen that one of the people is trying through the marginal groups of some marginal parties that do not represent the interest of the Croatian people to disprove the Croatian people as a whole. And we have this on stage today in BiH, and we need to say it loud and clear. Our interest is to protect the rights of the Croatian people in BiH as an equal and constitutive people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78774	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78775	Thank you. I repeat, the Croatian people in BiH are a sovereign people. What kind of scenarios, which anyone would like, etc., we remember the time when there were some scenarios so that there would be no Croats at all and there would be no Croatia at all. And it didn't happen. Why? Because we resisted it. And these scenarios that do not want Croats in BiH at all, not as a national minority, all Croats should resist. And this is one of the places to talk about it. And we representatives of the Croatian Parliament must not speak of Croats as a national minority in BiH. So the Croatian people in BiH are the sovereign, oldest people in BiH. The fact that he had such a history that today is the fewest people, it's not our fault. Because in this war we halved in BiH, we were also not to blame, that we could all defend ourselves and that we could defend all the places we lived and defend. We defended what we could and saved as much as we could. All the forces in BiH today are aimed at getting the Croats out of BiH. And that is the worst and ugliest message in the international community. This is what Cardinal Puljic was talking about, not only my words, but also his words, where he was clearly told either to assimilate or to move out. The Croats from BiH will neither be assimilated nor evicted. He will live on his own with the help of his Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78776	Final review, Committee Chairman Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you ladies and gentlemen who have been here, who are participating in the debate, who will bring your votes with your support to all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I think here I think of the Croats in BiH as a sovereign people, the Croatian national minorities in the European countries, and you have already done and given support to the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia concerning all these common but also Croatian emigrants. This is also an occasion, regardless of what is sometimes done without the authorities, but this is an opportunity, because we are talking about a particular topic that is not party and cannot be party, which must not even be in that domain of politics politically, so it is national. I will repeat the sentence that I said here when we passed the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and when I said that this opportunity should be removed from party uniforms and put on national Croatians and supported these conclusions with concrete, as well as this declaration that we had just discussed, just as the MPs had their views on these issues before and before this unfortunately staged appearance, and exit from the assembly. So I call on everyone to come, to give a vote of support to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia because Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and all Croatian citizens make up one unique space, a unique cultural space, and with Croatians in the Republic of Croatia make up a unique indivisible Croatian people. I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for having accepted the proposal and adopted the Strategy on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and for giving its opinion in terms of support for the declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH and BiH as a whole and for supporting the conclusions concerning the position of the national minority, the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. I am obliged here to say that we have also succeeded in part, and we thank all those who understand that when it comes to the position of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro. So the election law was passed in Montenegro and the request for Croats to be present in parliament was adopted, but in a certain way conditional. Therefore, this conclusion, I think, should remain current and we should vote it, so we will vote all but also this concrete one that refers to Montenegro because it was said that out of the total number of elections in Montenegro, Croats should go out so much as to make it 0.35%. So I don't think it's going to be a problem to realise, but in any case, it is in a certain way conditional acceptance of Croatian representation in the Montenegrin parliament. Let me Mr. Vice President from this place look back and on one more thing, I think it's very important to say. I read in different portals, on behalf of my colleagues from the board here, so I read in different portals how in fact all that we are doing now to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia from some is estimated unfortunately as throwing dust in the eyes. Unfortunately, that's what the people who have been sitting in this House have been saying for years. That's what the people who eventually participated in the Government of the Republic of Croatia say and who at the time could do everything we're doing, but they didn't do it. And I would say, unfortunately, they throw dust in the eyes and the Croatian public, as well as Croats outside Croatia. And I think that there is no place for such politics, here I guarantee that these proposals, that all of this we have done when it comes to politics towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is sincere, open, clear state policy towards their own people, a country that will tomorrow be a member of the European Union where many opportunities will be opened and that will stand at the same level for every man wherever he is. We know that neither the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia nor these documents that we have spoken about today and which we will bring will solve all the problems of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's relations with them. But without these documents, without what we're talking about, without the law mentioned, it's impossible to realize the objectives. So that law and these documents now that we're going to bring are one basis on which to be built. As a doctor, I have not seen a health system in any country work well if there is no well-regulated legislation. Good legislation does not guarantee good health care, but without good legislation, there is no health care. Therefore, everything we have done we have done in the best faith, out of genuine love for each man no matter where he is because every man we have is a Croat in BiH, a member of the Croatian national minority in the European countries or the Croatian emigrant and his descendant wherever he is, feels, lives together either Croatian and that man was ready and is now ready to sacrifice himself, work, to give his own life for Croatia. In this we could also testify in the defence of the Homeland War when we know that without contributions, without what we have done here and what has been done, but without the support of the Croats from BiH, without the support of Croats from around the world, it was impossible to organise a defence, it was impossible to defend the state. Some unfortunately wonder how much this can cost tomorrow when we pass these laws, how much will it cost to set up an office, a central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, how much will Croatia cost in terms of material amounts. Gentlemen, absolutely inappropriate questions. The Croats outside the Republic of Croatia did not ask how much the contributions they made to Croatia, how much health and life they gave for the Republic of Croatia are. And then finally, frankly, it does not stand at all for the Republic of Croatia, Croatia will only get a lot of it, if it makes communication with the parts of its people in the world, and there are as many inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia then it will show one strength, power of community, force of openness, at the end of the power that will be dealt with in a modern, future Europe, globalised with all its weaknesses and threats. Thank you again, thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78778	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I support everything Mr. Bagaric said, but that's not what this is about. As far as I know, you have placed the Water Act on the agenda, so I wonder, and it is unclear to me, given that there is no quorum to determine the agenda and whose proposal is the Water Act and how it entered the agenda without quorum. So I thought on that behalf to look for a break from the HDSSB club, unfortunately 13.30 is now but I'm telling me it's not clear that it's changing the agenda that's set out this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78780	The Water Act of the Government's bill of law has been discussed. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 12 pm with a vote on the debated points, including the final point of the Croatian Parliament's Disbandation. Interrupt session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78781	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of Montenegro on Police Cooperation, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 876. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and the Government of Montenegro on Police Cooperation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes. We move to - Final bill on the completion of the Law on Medical Insemination, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 873. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the report at the session. Does the Proposer want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care Mr Darko Milinovic. Will you? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78783	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Well, first of all, I have to thank all those who supported this Law when we passed it in 2009 after 40 years of lawlessness as far as this part of the profession is concerned. And I can say today along with all of you that I am proud of all the results obtained after the adoption of the Law on Medical Insemination. And I have to admit one failure, and you're sitting down and when we were in this House of Commons a reform of the health system, when we said that health care was something above the narrow party interests, when I said so I quote about health reform. I said I would come after me and into the oatmeal nest, of course in a political sense on Ibler's Square to try to find a consensus on such an important topic as health reform, as much as possible, by stressing health over the narrow interests and politics. We didn't make it. The SDP didn't accept, so here's to me coming to Ibler Square and talking about reforming the health system. But then I was convinced that the Law on Medical Insemination couldn't really be a battlefield for collecting political points in the way of numerous blows under the belt, and that's why I came here today to talk another truth about the Law on Medical Insemination, but also about something else. So when we passed this law that in many things is the most liberal in Europe and the world, by many things the most liberal, the best in Europe and the world, so when we passed that law, then I took for myself for a little time this morning and my associates, so I read some articles that wanted to derrogate, manipulate, offend all those who voted for this law, but not just them, but also the profession that supported this law. So I'll read you a few titles: Milinovic manipulates numbers for more babies... and foreign clinics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we will talk about the figures: After Milinovic's law, the number of artificial fertilizations fell by a third. This came from the ranks of the SDP, which we must say openly, without fear of criticism or from NGOs who have been manipulated by such incorrect data. See the title "The new law will give birth to fewer children", "Milinović's law has now driven doctors out of Croatia." Watch out for one piece of information very important. The pioneer of reproductive biology, professor. Kniewald says he has already started talks in the direction of opening private practice in Slovenia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, and many of his colleagues are thinking the same way. Mr. Kniewald after this asked for hospital employment, Mercury Clinical Hospital, and I hear that these days he's negotiating to continue and will request an extension of his work at Mercury Hospital. Now I ask you from the SDP after a year, give me one doctor who has succumbed to these insinuations, that he has left because of a new law from Croatia and that many doctors think that way. But what is worst, what is ladies and gentlemen is the worst and should not be afraid to say, what has hurt patients, the press conference of 24.8. Ms. Milanka Opačić, who sees her as an interesting problem of medical insemination, because this is a very important law so she is gone today, but I am sorry that she is not there, and says the new law has stopped all the necessary medical fertilisation in all clinics and at this point Croatia is the only country where infertility cannot be treated, Milanka Opačić, Igor Dragovan. These were dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, terrible messages that were most broken on the back of those who needed medical insemination, and because of these and such insinuations, such press conferences where under the belt on the most difficult groups in Croatia wanted to collect some political points. They didn't make it. That's why I'm proud today. We've been patient, you can laugh whatever you want, and as long as you want, but the numbers are undoubtedly on our side, so you'll hear them. I hope you won't be like some of the government organizations that you've just motivated your misinformation to step forward and say I'm manipulating the data. These are not the data of Minister Milinović, nor the Ministry of Health, but listen well to Željko Vranjš Director of the Clinical Hospital Centre Osijek, and Sinisa Šijanović Head of the IVF Centre. These people give information to which you laugh. Prof. Herman Haller and Nada Smiljanić head IVF, IVF you know this is these medical fertilization procedures, so she gave that information. You say they're lying. Dr. Crescent. Mladen Busic named him a liar, as well as Berivoje Miskovic as head of the IVF centre in the Holy Spirit, Prof. Cresu Rotin, director of the clinical hospital center of the Milordnica Sister, and Krunoslav Kunu, the man who deals with this, the head of women's diseases in Petrovo, Prof. Oreshković and Hrvoj Vrčić, who spent his entire life working on the team and Dr. Prof. Drazen Lucingera Clinical Hospital Mercury, the man who is dealing with this, the people who have sent these data that we are going to talk about today you call the unemployed, you call those who want out of Croatia, you call the manipulators, which is what Mrs Pusic and everyone else will not succeed, and once again I show you Milinović manipulates the figures. I will not allow anyone here, and there are no members of the Croatian Democratic Community among these doctors. I'm lying, there's one, but that's the data of the profession, that's the data we went out with, and that's the information that the health minister passed on to the Croatian public. After these harsh misinformations, after SDP says it's forbidden medically, imagine that disgusting, forgive me, President of the Croatian Parliament if I may tell a lie in this House, or a disgusting lie, let me be a little milder, disgusting untruth. ... Then the misinformation sent by both HNS and SDP, followed by e-mails dictated from the same source. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll just read a few. I'm not a bad person, but I'd really like to be referred to, imagine those hatreds, that you and your child or granddaughter have infertility problems. Don't give this to God or the greatest enemy. And look at this, that's from the factory of lies and misinformation. When our Law on Medical Insemination, as our procedure, writes to me one pair, not to me, but to myself, how was mine, our procedure for medical insemination is short, fast and successful, in accordance with the new law, on your request, when I get inspiration I will ask the minister for an apology and resignation. These and such information or misinformation have led to such and similar consequences. After all this, of course, to me as the one who has introduced the new law and there is nothing left to say but to say the following, which is what I said when we passed this law, that we will follow the implementation of this law, that we will follow all its results and that we will react in accordance with the cracks or demand of the profession. When I said that we are better for many things, and by many things and the best in terms of this Law on Medical Insemination, then I will read a few of the figures that teachers have given to those issues that have been declared by the SDP to manipulate, but I don't blame NGOs for, of course, buying into these and such misinformations. In 2008, under the old law it was born, it was 571 births under the old Law on Medical Insemination. 2010. 795 or 35.6% more or 209 births since the new law entered. You will have to learn to accept success and when I say you will have to apologize to the couples behind it, and now I am standing because you have misinformed and done again damage not only to them but to all of Croatia. As far as I'm concerned, you must forgive Mrs. Pusic and another piece of information, I hope we can share that joy together. That in 2008, 987 children were born through medical insemination procedures, and in 2010 under the new law 1248 children or 25.4% more or 237 children than under the old law. I'm convinced, please don't convince me that you're also lucky that this law has given birth to 236 children more. Ladies and gentlemen, we said we'd be very close to monitoring the application of this law. I said I wouldn't talk about this law for a year because it was almost impossible to respond to a number of misinformation, pranks and innuendos. But what we've done in these years of applying the new law, so the numbers say everything. And not only that, the difference in the success of individual IVF centres in the Republic of Croatia was as much as 2 to 35%, today by investing in new equipment and education, and you didn't forget that we also invested a million kuna in education, that we had singled out the medical fertilisation procedures from the hospital budget and thus provided an additional 22 million kuna, and thus, ladies and gentlemen, we got a total percentage of pregnancy, and after the embryo transfer of 30.1% in just 2 years of application of the new law. So we're better and the team should be proud. The team should also be proud of the SDP, despite the fact that you did not support this law. We're better than Germany, we're better than France, we're better than Switzerland, we're better than Belgium, and we're better than Italy. So, as important as it was, ladies and gentlemen, to regulate that area, to put it in legal frameworks because we also had the EU's message, the European Commission, that we are the only country with Azerbaijan that has not regulated that area. When we talk about the Law on Medical Insemination, remember at the beginning of this government that we said that we would also pass this law as I don't know about accreditation, categorization of hospitals that have been spoken of for 30, 40 years. And of course to mention, you were four years ahead of yourself when you didn't want to regulate that gray market, that gray zone. Well then last week or before last was 8. Human reproduction congress in Brijuni. That's where I went because there's an argument there, there's no policy room and there's no policy room and there's an argument there, and based on what we're looking for, the truth is we've also accepted that those most difficult couples who have the biggest problems with medical fertilization procedures to allow them to fertilize more than 3 egg cells, which, in a transfer sense, means if these hardest couples, they've earned it, and that these hardest couples can get in their process and more than three embryos, which means if they get 4 or 5 embryos that they're allowed to freeze, keep their traps, but even the law in certain situations so far has been allowed to freeze their traps. I'll read it to you because there's a waist behind it. All this stuff I've said so far, I didn't say it as HDZ, I didn't even say it as a minister, I said it in front of the profession. Because everything I said today has been told by the waist, sent by the waist and asked me to transfer those and such information. So here from the Brijuni convention, all very prominent foreign experts praised our results and highlighted the desire for further cooperation. We are even proposed for an EU expert group to freeze egg cells. In the second year of the application of new technological specifications, we have reached Italy, Switzerland and Germany. Now something about couples going out of the Republic of Croatia to be treated. There is this in all EU countries and the migration of these patients to treatment outside their country is between 4 and 7%, in the Republic of Croatia it is 5.6%. This is the information that the profession is talking about, and 60 – 70% of our couples who go abroad are looking for donation services for sexual egg cells. So, they're not going out because of everything that's been said over the past months and years in the Republic of Croatia, they're going out for egg donations. Also, the Croatian Society for Human Reproduction, therefore there is no more measuring association, an organisation that can talk about the procedures of medical fertilisation. It reiterates the credibility of the results presented for 2010. In the year, we firmly reject malicious doubts and criticisms of those who knowingly or out of ignorance point out the negativity of medical insemination in the Republic of Croatia, this is what the gentlemen dearly tell you, it is not politics, it is not said by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is what the Society for Human Reproduction of the Republic of Croatia tells you. The results shown are based on reports of all IDF centres and all birthplaces in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the migration of these patients, then why do we promote to some in Slovenia who are exclusively business and who are exclusively making money and you did such a promotion in the SDP that we expected the columns of buses, trains, planes to go to Slovenia. So when I told you that in the Republic of Croatia migration of 5.6% from abroad in the Republic of Croatia of all couples treated here for couples coming from abroad to the Republic of Croatia is treated there are 2.3% of couples and abroad there are 50 children who are born by the procedures of medical fertilisation to start here in the Republic of Croatia. No one mentions it and I am most disappointed with colleagues who are known hyperstimulation syndrome, to explain to everyone what it is one very difficult life-threatening condition where the treatment lasts for several months, hospitalisation due to this syndrome takes several months. Under the old law, 5.2% of these hyperstimulation syndromes were under the new law because of the so-called. Mild or mild stimulation protocols, ovulation, with 5.2 decreases to 1.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, all these are the results that once again show, and I thank all those who have supported, I thank the critics, and I thank the expert who has been giving suggestions over the past few months and whose suggestions, of course, we have accepted. No one mentions what is most important that after the adoption of the new Act or before it for waiting for medical fertilisation procedures in the Republic of Croatia was up to 18 months. Now imagine a couple who have problems with them and have to wait to even begin the procedure for more than a year or 18 months. After passing this law these waiting lists ladies and gentlemen are gone. If anything else over 200 children is more born through medical insemination procedures and a waiting list under this law is missing. They had some even before economic growth was 5% to 6% of the reasons, they had motives, but it is not important for them to invest in IVF or invest in medical fertilisation in the Republic of Croatia. How the coalition government, as the Croatian Democratic Community referred to the procedures of medical fertilisation in investing in the hospital system, invested in the process of medical fertilisation, in the profession, in equipment, when economic growth was -5.6%. So you who, when it was 5.6%, were cutting expenses and cutting finances for these procedures. We, however, believed in this law, believed that in this segment, investment in the future was singled out, we removed the procedures of medical insemination from the budget and invested an additional 22 million kuna, 3.6 million kuna and in education in 2009. One million kunas a year. And therefore, because of the arrangements of the system, because of what I said and because of the promise when we passed this Law, we propose that we listen to the work of the profession to propose that the draft law supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination, which is proposed to the provisions of Article 15. 2009 Law They shall not apply in cases where it is approved by the National Commission for Medical Insemination on a proposal from a specialist physician, gynecology carrying out a medical fertilisation procedure, where a male or a woman or both of them have been identified as having knowledge, experience of medical science, or during a medical fertilisation procedure. Why don't you say so? We may have been able to do so in passing this law, but when we passed this Law, we said we would follow this Law, I repeat again, I did not want to participate as a minister in this harsh politicisation and harmfulness of influence on these couples who had problems with the procedures of medical insemination, but I also announced then that we would follow the profession, that we would listen to the voice of the profession and when these results appeared and when the profession of us who supported it and the first law asked us to change that part so that it would help those couples who have the most difficult problems and we would listen to the voice of the profession and allow those couples to have the simplest, painlessest possible way to get to their own their offspring or their offspring. And that's why I'm saying we accepted the voice of the profession like the 2009 profession. And today she passed this law. So, in conclusion, Mr. President, once again, I want to make it very clear that 209 or 35.6% is written under a new law than the law that was in force until then. But I also remind this, because of the new law, fewer children will be born, that's the answer, that's the answer to those insinuations and those misinformations. 209 more births. After Milinovic's law, the number of artificial inseminations fell by a third. So, the number of pregnancies 987 2008, 2010, a thousand 248 or 237 children more, and the number of children as I said 220 more born children under the Law on Medical Insemination. I also got two postcards after the government of the Republic of Croatia got them hundreds, but I got two from Prague after the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed this law. So there are no gentlemen hundreds of thousands or thousands of couples going to treatment abroad. I expect these days after this debate SDP's re-activity towards NGOs the type of misinformation and again these days I expect new letters. So far I've got them, after you've heard, hundreds of letters, straight two. I don't know if we brought it. Just two, unsigned. It was one year ago signed, so I invited this couple to talk and they were continuing treatment in the Republic of Croatia. So, I expect from the SDP, I expect everyone in this House to support these amendments to the law, I expect that it will not be as it has been until now rough manipulation of this law, I expect that a fifteen top professors who deal with this process will not be called liars, data handlers, and I expect, of course, that never again in such a poor way as he said in Croatia it is impossible to treat infertility that in the next period and such manipulations can never happen again. Of course I can't, because today we have results and it was supposed to endure a year of silence on many misinformations, on many insults, and on a personal nature, but I would endure it again. And now I announce that these parts of the year, we still don't have the results of the medical fertilization in the Republic, that this year, and we're going to publish these results next year that we're going to publish, that we're going to have more than a thousand 19 children. And for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, we have more than a thousand children born with medical insemination procedures. And the share in the Republic of Croatia of newborns from the medical fertilisation procedures before this law was 1.8%, and now we're on average in the EU 2.7%. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the words, here I hope that the debate will be, although it is specific, although it is professional and although it still needs to be known from the level of profession that it will be dignified and that there will be no more planting of those most harmful to couples who are in the process of medical insemination. No trains, no planes, no buses, no cars that rush into Slovenia, Prague, Germany, Austria, Italy or anywhere else. We're proud of this law. Fifty children were born abroad, not citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but other citizens of those couples who were here. And some of our couples will continue. I've got one here, but I'm not looking right now. I'm running out of time, he says. 18 times I've been to medical insemination, so for the past 10 years under the old law. But now that a new law has been passed, I will not go to the Republic of Croatia. Don't misinformed the public that way, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78784	Thank you. Do they want the committee's reporters? Yeah. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, president of the Health and Social Care Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78785	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Care Committee is on its 61st. The sitting discussed the bill before you and it as a parent working body. In accordance with Article 76a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In this explanation, the applicant pointed out the results of the 2009 Law on Medical Insemination, the basis of which 24% more children were born in the medical fertilisation procedure in 2010, 35.6% more births and 23.4 more pregnancies were achieved after the medical fertilisation procedure than before the law was passed. By issuing the payment of the medical fertilisation procedure from the hospital limits of HZZO in 2010 allocated 44 million kuna to it, which is 100% higher than in 2009. In the debate followed by committee members, they supported the proposed supplement, which in their opinion will improve the existing law. By monitoring the implementation of the applicable law, doctors involved in human reproduction have indicated the need to improve the existing law for the benefit of persons who, for health reasons, have not been able to achieve medical fertilisation. The proposed additions to the law shall be governed by cases where, during the medically assisted fertilisation procedure, there is evidence of a lack of sex cells in medical science. In those cases, more than three cases are allowed to be introduced in one procedure by a physician of a gynecologist who carries out the procedure with the approval of the National Commission for Insemination. Overall, the debate highlights the reorganisation carried out in this area by the Ministry of Health and Social Care as it was based on the advice of the profession combined with increased investment in education, equipment and payment of services by HZZO. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Medical Insemination in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78786	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78787	Mr. President, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Ministers with colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. For the HDZ Club, when we talk about medical insemination, the basic question that raises all other questions is when life actually begins. For us, it's a moment of conception. We can violate that belief, but that violation does not set us free from the truth. Some will object and ask for evidence, present their arguments, etc. In fact, they generally ignore the basic postulate when it comes to the evidence they seek, which is a fact that no one has ever killed or will, that even the lack of evidence is not proof of no existence. If we also accept this test of evidence that is not necessarily necessary for those who believe in the right time, we see that there is no place for any language acrobatics, the joint effort of all those who do not understand, those who understand or deceive or once a word seduce the public, "ordinary people" including politicians and doctors and the scientific community. Namely, the latest papers have just indicated that there is no place for the preembrian theory to be declared a predicate with the aim of opening wide doors to manipulation with the earliest stage of the child, this beautiful creature of God, declaring it biological material. Let me quote one part of the scientific paper published that says that the zigota as the end of the fertilization event is not the beginning of the existence of man's life, before that development of embryos in so-called. Stage 1 begins with the first contact of the male sex cell with the obvious as considered from the scientific point of view at the beginning of life. From the beginning of fertilization usually... which includes contact, unification and first... [[You don't understand.]] The division. [[You don't understand.]] There is also an inevitable and important attitude of the church that we cannot rule out, from which we should single out how the doctor is obliged before the medical fertilization process of the spouse to inform about the possibility of treating infertility and other ways of achieving parenting, primarily promoting and providing professional training from the natural planning of the family. It's so-called. naprotechnology, technology of natural procreation. Their proposal is also to set up a fertility care centre and a natural family planning centre, which should certainly be considered seriously, although this was partly resolved by our Article 7 of the Law. Having a child is a gift for nothing. In the discussion of medical insemination, it is certainly inevitable to talk about the child and to invite everyone to protect him regardless of the developmental stage in which this gift is located. For the HDZ Club, the right to medical insemination is undeniable, right to medical insemination yes, but the right to child at all costs no. And this time when we are supplementing this bill or when we are discussing this highly sensitive matter that we know so little about, no matter how much we listen to those who are clear, it is important to talk about and point out. To raise awareness of the other side of the medical insemination. This certainly does not diminish the importance of medical insemination as a process, but it is important to keep in mind the various publications published in the best and most valuable magazines that talk about the various risks of medical fertilisation. It is important, therefore, that it is also defined by this law, to point out to parents, to those who opt for medical fertilisation that medical fertilisation is not always without risk and should simply live with it. Many people advocate children's rights, parents' rights, human rights, and so little know about the risks and consequences of medical insemination. So it is always a question to ask us again and again whether we are doing everything we can to avoid playing with life and God’s plan itself. Finally, the child is a child no matter how conceived, but we must be aware of everything in order to draw attention to the need to reflect on caution. The current Law on Medical Insemination is the framework which the Republic of Croatia finally settled this important issue in such a way as to define clear criteria, the procedure for medical insemination as well as the rights and obligations of participants in the process of medical insemination. The law respects a number of conventions on the protection of human rights and human dignity regarding the application of biology and medicine, protocols and Directives of the European Union, Parliament and of the Council on the determination of standards, quality and security for the procurement process, testing, processing, storage, storage and distribution of tissues and cells of human origin. These provisions regulate health and personal safety and confidentiality of all health data in the process of medical fertilisation. The law regulates the procedures of medical fertilisation carried out in order to achieve insemination in accordance with modern medical science and experience. The existing Law on Medical Insemination regulates the exercise of the right to medical insemination, rights and obligations and the responsibility of all participants in the process of medical insemination. In accordance with the requirements and possibilities of modern medicine, the procedures prescribed by this law are implemented to achieve conception, taking into account the protection of women's health and the welfare of offspring. Thus, the Law on Medical Insemination provides assistance to families who are unable to achieve parenting without medical help. The law provides for the preparation of the family for medical fertilisation as well as the safety of all procedures of medical insemination. As a result, the embryo has been a living being since its beginning, i.e. Conceptions it has the right to a life which is a fundamental right and therefore prohibits any manipulation of the traps. This is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which regulates the right of a child to live in a family. Medical insemination is used in cases of infertility and cannot be carried out to obtain a child in other situations. This is also in accordance with the Family Law, which defines the right of a child to a family, the right to both parents, and therefore the extramarital community cannot exercise this right for a number of reasons. Mr. Minister, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we are pleased and thank you for your perseverance to have arranged this area. Let's remember all the heist that was following this bill, let's remember all the exposure that you and the government were having when this law was passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, remember all of you who voted in favour of this law, the hickeys that have been personally implemented on you, remember all of our faces published in the daily newspaper at the very least shown and fingered as criminals because we have passed a law that is not to God's protection of the right family or people and goes to harm, is not liberal enough, is not medically justified enough in a way that gives support to everyone. And what exactly is proof that all these critics were wrong? Exactly what we've heard here from Mr. Minister, and what I'm going to do here for those, and also for those of us who have insisted on passing this law here, are the effects of this law. I would like to point out that the profession, so the doctors who deal with human reproduction, clearly articulated their views and presented the results of their work in accordance with the new Law on Medical Fertilisation, can therefore also be considered the result of the new law. In 2010, 24% of children were born from a medical fertilisation process compared to 2009. In 2010, there were 35.6% more births after the medical fertilisation procedure. In 2010 compared to 2009, there were 23.4 more pregnancies after the medical fertilisation procedure. In total, 1019 children were born from medical fertilisation procedures in 2010. The proportion of newborn children from the medical fertilisation process in the total number of newborn children is 2.7, which is at the level of the European average ranging from 2 to 4%. The earlier stake was below 2%. The waiting lists for a medical insemination procedure have been reduced. Practically now in the Republic of Croatia, there is no waiting for medical insemination procedure, while the earlier waiting list was up to a year. The payment of medical fertilisation procedures has been segregated from hospital limits so that HZZO in particular, not from hospital pay limits. In 2010, HZZO singled out 44 million kunas for medical fertilisation procedures, which is 100% more than in 2009. The Ministry of Health and Social Care has invested 3.6 million kunas for medical fertilisation equipment, and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance has allocated an additional million kunas for the education of the profession involved in medical fertilisation. In view of the results of this Act on Medical Fertilisation of the HDZ Club, it does not consider it necessary to initiate any procedure for thorough amendments to the law and amending the law. We believe it is correct, so the HDZ Club believes that the right position of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Health and Social Care is Dr. Darka Milinovica, who stresses in her remarks co-operation with the profession. The primacy of Croatian societies for human reproduction, and if the profession suggests it will consider all suggestions. These amendments and additions to the law have also been made on the basis of the expert report, and for the benefit of persons who, for health reasons, have not been able to achieve medical fertilisation. The HDZ Club also warns of full caution in the application of this Act, but also of this amendment in order to fully comply with the provisions of the law with the aim of protecting those involved in the medical fertilisation procedure primarily of children who will be conceived and born with medical assistance. The HDZ Club points to the importance of building internal and external protection mechanisms, i.e. supervision as reporting on the implementation of this Act, and all with the aim of preventing any possibility of abuse of this law, i.e. Medical insemination. This includes the adoption of standards of ethics, professionalism and inclusiveness by authorised clinics carrying out medical fertilisation. The HDZ Club at the end, ladies and gentlemen, draws attention to the danger of any kind of politicization of this law. Because it has the effect of bringing unrest and uncertainty among those married couples who, due to their inability to conceive by natural help, are asking for a profession in which mutual trust is of particular importance that is being violated by politicization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78788	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78789	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister of Health, Vice-President of the Government. Well, we've heard the Secretary's explanation about the law, but when you ask me and when you ask the citizens what that law means, what this amendment of the law means now. The minister spoke of his merits, talking about the successes and range of self-helped insemination. But these successes and scopes of assisted fertilization are not the result of the law, but are the result of the introduction of more financial resources into the system, of the opening of multiple centres, of allowing more procedures to be made. That's not the consequence of the law. This is the consequence of health policy. When we talk about the consequences of the law, then we must talk about the consequences of the law about what this law brings to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, because they cannot have a child naturally, must submit to this method. So, I'm speaking to the minister, perhaps the minister will eventually tell us what the consequences of this law are. How many couples in Croatia could not receive guaranteed health care because of this law, and the amendment of this law says that these citizens were. Because these changes to the law wouldn't happen then. So when we talk about this amendment to the law, then those reasons that exist for amending the law were two years ago when we passed the law. They were the same, they haven't changed, and they're going to be the same as as long as there's infertility problems, and that's why this law is changing, why the ex post mind, why wait two years for it to change. We could've done it then. When we discussed this Law, we could have these problems that we knew existed, introduced into the law, and the law would have looked completely different. But reproduction has always been a political issue. It was either to encourage or restrict policy has always been mixed up in it, will interfere and should not run away from it. No need to be angry if someone says something different because reproductive policy can be viewed on one side or on the other. It all depends on what kind of worldview you have, and what kind of politics you need to implement. What is certainly reproduction is women's right to free choice when, with whom and how many children they will have. And it's one of the fundamental women's rights. And just to point out on the health side that no hormonal stimulation is harmless, we enter the life cycle and natural cycle, so we should enable the method that gives us the most certainty that these hormonal stimulations are as little as possible, to get to that conception as possible, with as little problems as possible for both the woman and the family. What this law is before us brings is that only three egg cells can be fertilized. What I would also be interested in, and I didn't hear, I'm not a gynecologist, so then I didn't even participate in a meeting, I mean in Plitvices, how many multiple pregnancies, how many twins, how many triplets, because the introduction of three egg cells, the introduction of more than two egg cells increases the risk of multiple pregnancies. Today's time in Europe is the standard to enter a fertilized egg cell, all with the preservation of mother and children from the risk of multiple pregnancy. What I also regret is that very often it is stressed that infertility is a woman's problem. Infertility is not a woman's problem, only women, but is a problem both male and male, and at this time in Croatia we have more and more men infertile, and through this law should in some way be apostrophe, and through this law and it should be regulated. I have to admit, that law didn't practically touch that part. Two years ago, the law was passed, which was then a first-rate political issue, not only because it was a conflict between the HDZ and the opposition, but because it engulfs fundamental human rights, encroachs on women's fundamental freedoms, families to choose the procedure they consider to bring them the best results. When we said the law was conservative, controversial, that it would bring problems to the citizens, that we would have citizens who would have to seek health care outside the country, and that we would have to change the law very quickly. That's when we said it, you can see it in the phonogram of the session, here we are until the moment we change the law. We are changing it under the influence of the profession, but we are also changing it under the influence of all those whose method, i.e. this health care, has been denied. So regardless, if anyone looks at this law outside that it is neither HDZ nor opposition, nor SDP, they will say that there are serious restrictions in it, that there are serious problems that prevent all of them from, again, noting, that health care needs that health care and getting it. Let me just point out that part of this law is to put it cosmetically. In writing there and it wasn't practically wanted, it wasn't supposed to be done, so in practice there's no donation of reproductive material, we boasted that we would have banks of egg cells, that we would have spermoid banks, so male sex cells, but that's what the law says, but as far as I'm concerned, let the minister talk me out, but there's not a single bank of egg cells in Croatia, we used to have male sex cells, we had more, we don't have any more. And those couples who need to go abroad. So the law is not all-powerful, it hasn't solved everything, it hasn't allowed everyone to get guaranteed health care. And speaking of statistics, statistics are what it is. It depends on how you look at it from which side, depending on how you interpret the numbers you get, depends on how you interpret the results. What I would like to see, and I would like to see very simple statistics, without statistics on how many children were born, obviously when you give more funds, when you open up new centres, when more people in the system are involved in doing this method that you will have more children. What I would like to see is the statistics of two centres in Croatia that have frozen the embryos before the law and now that they do not freeze. It is only two centres in Croatia, and it is the only real statistics that can tell us and answer whether this law is the success of assisted fertilisation in these centres greater or smaller. Everything else is due to health policy, more resources, more centres, therefore it has nothing to do with this law. You have before you a proposal to amend the law, and if you read it and if someone reads it who's an ordinary citizen, then they don't understand it. He says he'll put out of force Article 15. The Law on Medical Aided Insemination, and then in Article 15 of the Law, when you read it, it is not clear to you. I think the minister has avoided, avoided translation into the language of the people, translated what we know to do with this amendment of the law, counterpart Bagaric talked about the worldview, about the beginning of life from conception further, so this law introduces the freezing of traps on a small door in Croatia. This is for all couples who, unfortunately, suffer from malignancies, who will receive chemotherapy and will no longer be able to become a mother and father after chemotherapy, in these cases they take egg cells and fertilize and freeze. What does that tell us? It says that for these couples as well as for one part of the other couples who do not have this disease, freezing is a golden standard. So this amendment of the law admits that the freezing of mattresses is a golden standard and that it needs to be introduced into the treatment itself. Malignant diseases are a major problem in both women and men, and it was obvious that it was something that led legislators to change this law, because these couples, given that they are receiving chemotherapy, do not have much opportunity and are not able to go to Vienna, Prague, Maribor. They need that health care here, and this amendment of the law, thank you for acknowledging that the freezing of gold standards is a golden standard, you acknowledge that it is the method of choice, and you acknowledge that in Croatia this method should exist and that this method should be developed. Everywhere in the world for patients in certain indications, the freezing of mattresses is a golden standard, so here with this amendment of the law becomes Croatia. And I'm glad that here on the threshold of Europe in Croatia we'll have a freeze in the mattresses. Although the small door, a little bit from the back, but for those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who need it, who need the method here, here's the method they'll be able to get. And when we talk about the profession, I wouldn't exactly be hiding behind the profession, because part of this law is, as I said at first, a political issue. Playback is also a political issue, as politics also participates in reproduction. So, what I'm saying from this pay phone is that together with the profession, the same one that wrote and this law, we're going to pass a new law, a quality law, which will give all couples who are struggling with infertility a real chance of becoming parents, and this so far could only be done abroad, so the new Law on aided insemination in the new assembly will be a law that will allow the freezing of traps for all those who need it. And the minister devoted a lot of his exposure to the results, which he did, as he did, but here I once again say that the only result that is objective, which we can objectively object to, is the result of these two centres in Croatia that have been freezing their embryos before the law and which do not now freeze. These are the only relevant and statistical data that can show us whether this law has brought good or not to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, the SDP club will not be against this law because it benefits citizens who need it, but it will not be for because it does not solve the problem of infertility. To only mention 15% of the population of the Republic of Croatia suffers from infertility, it does not solve all their problems. And I hope that very soon we will have a new law on assisted fertilisation in which the freezing of embryos as permitted in all modern European countries will be allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78790	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78791	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mrsic said that successes and reach of fertilisation are not the consequence of the law. That's incorrect, this data itself speaks for itself enough, and this last remark also speaks for the fact that you will be constructively restrained. Furthermore, you talked about politics and statistics. So I'll remind you that your political decision at the time of the coalition government led to the fact that there were 10,000 fewer children born, and now thank God 200 for this law tracking. And this investment in this area that has been doubled certainly speaks of the seriousness of this government's resolution of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78792	Correction, Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78793	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mrsic is here in fact I would say this amendment and interpret the addition of the law in my own way and wrongly. Therefore, Article 15 states that one procedure does not allow women to enter into the sex organs of more than 3 embryos. So in this case, this article is excluded, which in no way includes everything you've been saying, and at the very least does not include storage, trap manipulation, freezing in the way you've been saying. On the other hand, it is good that Mrsic finally admitted two things on behalf of the SDP. One, that several children were born in Croatia after this law, regardless of what he explained that it was because of politics, health policy. This means that he has yet to admit the other thing, again on behalf of the SDP, that this health policy is a success. Now, that's the most important thing we've heard here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78794	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I've heard a lot of things in my parliamentary career here in the Parliament, but what Minister Milinovic said here today was one of the most unusual presentations I've heard, I must say. This law is now the third time in its amendments to the procedure. So it was once adopted on 17.07.2019, then on 6.11.2009 and is now back in procedure since 1 September of this year. After the presentation of Minister Milinovic, it would be concluded that he would recommend us, moreover, to require us not to accept in any way this change with which the government today appeared on the agenda because the whole debate, or the opening statement of Minister Milinovic, was dedicated to how the law originally proposed and which was so far in force was fantastic. He was good at each of his elements, he produced excellent results. They were, and now it turned out that when they proposed such a law, they were 100% right, and the opposition was a disaster, all wrong, everything the opposition was saying was wrong and it was wrong, and now it turned out that when they proposed it, and how they proposed it was the best solution and the best formulation to show up today, and that this would be the introduction to the requirement that this best of all possible laws would change in its important definition exactly the opposite. It's like someone comes in and says this is black and it's great that it's black and it was actually the best idea to be black and that's why we're turning it into white today. So, the whole argument of Minister Milinovic who, in my opinion, missed today's agenda point, which is not a suggestion to keep this best of all possible law on assisted fertilisation as it has been so far, but to change in its important provision with a bold change. So change in what this Law originally carried with it and which is why we of the opposition have declared against it, and not only have we declared it, but we, on behalf of the HNSU Club, have already submitted six amendments to the first proposal of the Law, which were then rejected with indignity. What's the key? These 6 amendments have a different level of value, this is the third that is accepted in importance, two have already been accepted significantly in the earlier amendment of the Law, which was voted 6. 11. 2009 Years. However, what are two important provisions of the original, including the current law, proposed by the government and adopted by the parliamentary majority. Two important elements are limiting the extraction of egg cells during one procedure to 3 and another ban on fertilisation of fertilised egg cells, better said embryos. These were two key things, there are different other elements, but these were two key things that we argued about when it came to this law that is now in force and those two provisions are defined in Article 15. A valid law. Since this is a very short draft of the Law that is under discussion today, it consists of only two articles, let me remind you of what this proposal says. The first article of the bill states: “In the Law on Medical Insemination of NN, etc., beyond Article 15. No freezing of embryos, fertilised egg cells is said to be said and there are no more than three egg cells to be removed in the process, Article 15a is added. which reads: ‘In cases where a man or woman has been found to have knowledge or experience of medical science or during a medical fertilisation procedure, a lack of sexual cells has been identified on the proposal of a physician of a gynecology specialist who conducts a medical fertilisation procedure with the approval of the national commission of the provision of Article 15. This Law will not apply." In other words, when a doctor who conducts the procedure suggests it and concludes that there are not enough sex cells, and the profession says that in women over 35 years it is 80% of cases, when there are not enough of these cells, then an embryo can be frozen, and then more than three egg cells can be extracted in one procedure and when the government has defended this provision that it is now changing to its opposite, all of this is laughing which is not allowed so far, then the arguments were part of it, or I would say as far as I am concerned and my perceptions of it, mostly, in the field of ethics and not in the field of medicine with the view that this is ethically unacceptable. So that was ethically unacceptable 17. Seven. 2009, 6. 11. 2009 Or one. Nine. 2011 Now it's not ethically unacceptable now it's ethically acceptable. People play with the lives of people and the fates of people who solve serious problems. This proposal to change the Law is such a good proposal, and should be changed because the current Law was bad, we argued it was here, and I think that if Minister Milinovic wanted to boast he should not have made a bad law, so that now this bad law is under pressure, I don't know what is changing into its opposite, so all that was banned in key elements, which is freezing the traps and more than three egg cells in one procedure, that it is now allowed, but should be boasted that he reasonably came to the conclusion that sometimes, behold, miracles and opposition can be right. So maybe now we've been bothering people for two years, but we won't, and that would be in my opinion for every praise, argument, and even this proposal of the law regarding the HNS and HSU Club should not be seen from the point of view of who is proposing, but rather, if it makes sense, the fact that the HNS HSU opposition to the 6 amendments at the first adoption of this Law said that this should not be regulated in this way, that people should not be harassed and tortured, should be allowed in one procedure to extract more than three egg cells, and should be allowed to freeze embryos, the very fact that it was an opposition, it should not be a sign to you that you should be against it, that two years of people should be harassed so that you would accept our attitudes as well as 6 months after the first version of the law that you accepted those attitudes, and that those attitudes related to prove that someone in the extramarimarimation that you remember that in the first version that you didn't. Like that other provision that applied to a child being conceived in that way, when he turns 18 he asks to be revealed to him by his biological father, it was also, which of course makes it difficult for people to decide to be donors, so it makes it difficult for him to find out who his biological father was, and it changed six months later. And now, two years later, what's important in that law is that you defend with the greatest intensity because it really is a world-wide difference, and it's our world-wide view that people who are in this process can't be harassed and who want to have a child to submit to them, I don't know how many procedures because the law limits the number of egg cells that are extracted in one procedure and the possibility of freezing the embryo. To show what we're concerned about, and I have to say, for reason of common sense and agreement with ourselves, we're different. The very fact that this amendment to this bad law makes it better suggests the opposite side of the government. But since we think it's certainly an improvement, it would be even better, but we're going to do it in the next term, but that's an improvement compared to the bad law you proposed in 2009 and with which you harassed people, HNS and HSU will support these changes because they're better than what was in force so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78796	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Pusic made several incorrect allegations. I've noticed on several occasions she said that this law so far was bad. So as bad as he was talking about these data that say 200 children were born more, all these statistical indicators. Otherwise, you incorrectly interpreted the Minister's statement and said that the best law of the best, etc. Therefore, this amendment also says that the opinion of the profession is being heard and that, of course, the opinion of the profession is going in this direction to facilitate and to make it even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78798	And the correction of the incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pusic, you've made an explicit statement in article 15. There was a ban on freezing covers, so now it's like a docking ban, which is not true. Here, I'll read you the whole article 15. So, Article 15. "In the out-of-body fertilisation procedure, no more than three egg cells obtained by one procedure can be fertilised." And the other key thing is in one procedure it's not allowed to bring into the sex organs of a woman more than three embryos. Therefore, there is not a single word about the freezing of the mattresses, nor is there a word about the removal of that god-awful ban that it was like. So it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78800	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Thank you very much. On behalf of the legislator, respected Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78801	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's someone already said that we're finally here and Miranda's coming, so I was just gonna say, I'm sorry she's not here, but here's Honorable Representative Mrsic here. So I'm going to refer to myself with a few words and a debate on behalf of the SDP club. Well, here at the end of our term, dear friend, we got a confession that we were leading a good health policy and it was supposed to persist, it was supposed to persist for four years and finally get that commendation. I thank the SDP club that he said and I'm sorry it wasn't before, I'm sorry I wasn't at the SDP club when we were bringing health reform and together in this good health policy like you said we're taking part. Of course, the adoption of every law is accompanied by financial resources. How are you going to pass the law that we're going to build a new school and we say that's why we're not going to allocate any financial resources. So, just the health policy that goes towards investing in Croatian health care and investing in the future has led to such and similar results in the health system. But there's one difference, I agree with you. We've allocated more resources. It was our health policy, it was the ultimate goal of reforming the health system, just rationalising the system, redistributing the use of the funds we have and finding opportunities for new investments. And all that when economic growth was minus 5.6%. Now we can talk to the argument a little bit. So, Rode asked the government of the Republic of Croatia whose head was Ivica Racan to make it possible for free. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I won't, Mr. Racan, if you think I won't mention it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78802	Please, without any controversy from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78803	No negative context, though, I think there are certain merits in democratisation of Croatia, if you thought that your former president, unfortunately the late president, would be defiled. That's not my way, that's not the HDZ way. As much as I think there are certain merits in the process of democratisation and the introduction of multilaterals into the Republic of Croatia. But I have to tell the truth that Rode was looking for this coalition government headed by Mr. Racan, asking to make it possible when economic growth was 5.6% plus to pay more than three procedures. There's this song, Mrs. Pusic, "And where are you?" You can't sit, you're laughing at me. Well, she's got this song, "What are you on?" So you give me a second to hear what I'm about to say. So, they asked Rode, we have in the ministry an official memo asking the Ministry and HZZO to pay more than three procedures, when economic growth was 5.6%, you didn't accept it, you refused because it was such a health policy. Then the principals asked you to isolate it from the hospital budget and you didn't do it, you've already cut the budget from 6.2 to 5.4 by 800 million kuna. So, that's of course health policy is investment and financial resources. I'd beg you if you would.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78804	I'm begging you don't throw it out of the bench. You've got a way to answer that. Please don't throw it away. You didn't get the word and you can't take it right. For you, the rules are like any other agent. Stick to those rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78805	Now, Your Honor, this law has not said anything about what you said was permitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78806	Just a minute. The Honorable representative Pusic cannot show and in this way address anyone in this assembly, nor Minister Milinović because it is really inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78807	/The Intruder doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78808	Thank you very much. You didn't get the word and you can't speak. ... You didn't get the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... Go on, Your Honor. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't talk, you didn't get the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... You can't act like this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[Invader Pusic: You can't behave like this either.]] Proceed with the debate, please. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. ... [[Invader Pusic: You can't behave like this either.]] Dear MPs, you haven't received your word and you can't speak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78809	Mr. Vice President, you can't warn the MPs if you don't warn the minister who asks the MPs what you're on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78810	Please sit down, and you continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78811	So, as far as oncology patients are concerned, we haven't changed anything. It was in the previous law before, and that's why it's not good not to read the law. So in cancer patients, we said that we could have a method of freezing egg cells that many have said is an experimental method and that has no success, and I'm going to tell you something about the success and freezing of egg cells, and also in these situations we've allowed to store embryos. In practice, you may be in the process of medical insemination and God forbid you reveal yourself to a woman or a man some sort of malignant disease. At that point, and that's what I've often mentioned, and when we passed that law, we didn't prohibit the freezing of the mattresses. At that moment until it becomes an optimal time to transfer the embryo back to the uterus at that time is allowed to store the embryos. So in that there are no provisions, changes to this law do not... But I also have to answer to Mrs. Pusic, it's not about major amendments to the law. [[You don't understand.]] I have to say it in an understandable dictionary to make it clear to everyone what it's all about. You're looking for the following, that husband and wife who treat infertility for some reason, may be of... ova, so neat sex cells and male and female, you are looking for this, to a woman aspirate 20 egg cells, to fertilize them all, to get two cells back, and 17 embryos, embryos to freeze and save themselves until the out of sight, and such Mrs. Pusic in Croatia has 10500 frozen embryos, living things that no one takes care of. [[You don't understand.]] Now we're against it, and that would be an important change to this law to allow it, and that doesn't have to be allowed because we've developed a new methodology, which is freezing the obvious, freezing women's sex cells that produce good results. And now I'm going to tell you the data, the freezing of the readings, we have the success of 17.9% of the pregnancy from those frozen readings as you've heard. Supreme, European, world experts are asking us to be, I also said when the new law is passed, many will learn from Croatia again, from Croatian experts. As I said in the introduction, from the European and many giants in terms of medical fertilisation, Europe and the world are asking for Croatia to be one of the reference centres that will share their experiences in freezing women's sex cells with Europe and the world, and therefore I congratulate the profession. And it's not, Mr. Representative, I didn't say it was my fault, it's the merit of the profession, and of course it's our fault that we made it possible to invest more funds in Croatian healthcare, so I said 22 additional million kunas outside the limit, 6.3 million kuna in new equipment, 1 million kunas in education. So very clearly, it's not about the substantial changes to the laws you're talking about. We still won't allow it if it doesn't need to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78812	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78813	But I had to wait for five minutes, but here. So we won't continue to allow 20 ovaries to fertilize, to go with hyperstimulation, to 10500 embryos, living beings that nobody's worried about right now. Against this, the Croatian Democratic Union, a democratic party in Croatia. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78814	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 209, and I must say, you didn't warn Minister Milinovic when he hurt him, too. He was referring to insulting the MPs. I must admit that Minister Milinovic cannot offend me, but in principle that a minister in Parliament who serves these representatives of citizens who sit here should, speaks to any MP, and especially to me who is using arguments in this House, who, over many years, even the most incredible things you say here with arguments, you come to think of saying to one representative where you are. If you are in HDZ talking this way, we are not in Croatian society, and this Assembly is an example for Croatian society and should be...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78816	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78817	Shame on you, keep that behavior to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78818	Thank you very much. You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78819	Thank you, too, for not doing your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78820	As for what you said, we'll check the phonogram, and we'll see, convince, and we'll see behind that. Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78821	Well, I expected the minister to answer the questions we asked him. First, as far as this law is concerned, it's frozen, if possible under this law, in which centers. Second, what are the results of two centers that have frozen the embryos before and after. And when we talk about finance, then you can give millions, but you need to see how much of it you've benefited from, how much of it you've thrown aside without having success. And what I once again mention, the SDP will change this law in the next session of the Parliament and allow the freezing of the coverts to remove that story from politics and return it to where it should be, and that is for those citizens who need it in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78822	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It is next to the HSS club, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Minister with his associates. For a long time, the Croatian public has shown interest in discussing medical insemination and the legal arrangement of this area. Since this is a matter of the conscience of every person, but it is important for the present and future of individuals, interpersonal relations, family and our society as a whole to hear the arguments of all stakeholders. We are aware and accept that there are different attitudes about the same moral problems. However, this fact does not diminish the value of the claim that modern legislation, for example in matters of legal arrangement of marriage, family, protection of human life in delicate stages of development, and medical insemination must bear in mind valuable fundamentals of law. This applies to both executive and legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia and to its social and cultural environment in which it is called as a legitimate authority to create legal assumptions for life worthy of man in peace and justice. At first glance, when it comes to this Law, they would say that there are minor changes to the Law on Medical Insemination. However, if read more carefully, it can be concluded that it is about changes to the spirit of the law because it is allowed, even in exceptional situations, to freeze embryos. After the Croatian Society asked for human reproduction, so-called privileged proceedings at last year's First Congress on Medical Insemination held in Plitvice. And after the Minister of Health promised to comply with the requirements of the profession, a legal amendment was made that all vital egg cells could be fertilized in a partner with a legitimately difficult medical indication. A gynecologist who leads a couple in the process estimates it's a so-called gynecologist. A particularly difficult case. The complete documentation shall be sent to the National Commission, which shall then be given by the final court on whether or not it can go into the freezing of the embryos. According to the available data published in the media from the medical fertilisation procedure in Croatia, 1019 children were born last year, which is 24% more than a year ago. The proportion of children born with medical fertilisation among newborns was 2.7% and in 2009 the proportion was 1.9%. These positive results are due to the adoption of the Law on Medical Insemination, which we remind the public, caused a great storm due to the ban on freezing embryos. 200 children born more means 7 new classes of elementary school. Before this Law, the success of medical insemination was between 7% and 30%, and today it is from 20 to even 47%. The resolution minister said this was the result of investment in the profession, in education, in new equipment of 3.7 million kuna, and for the medical fertilisation procedures that were allocated from the hospital budget last year, HZZO paid 44 million kuna. Therefore, the question arises as to why these amendments to the laws that open up the possibility of freezing covers if there is clear data that without doing so, the artificial fertilisation procedure is successful. I would like to remind you that there are about 11,000 embryos frozen in Croatia today, 11,000 living beings whose future is unknown. Therefore, the legal arrangement of fertilisation with medical assistance must be closely concerned with the valuable assumptions of technical possibilities and human birth control, and with all the consequences that can arise from such a concern. This topic rightly attracts public attention, especially married couples faced with the inability to start parenting. The desire for offspring is natural and so strong that the willingness of infertile couples to undergo medical insemination can neither hesitate a certain risk nor disappointment over the failings that they know to follow. Sadly, many spouses who cannot have children along with other natural methods also use medical insemination to start a child. Many of them testify to opting for repeated attempts despite the pain suffered by especially women, for the joy of bringing a living creature into the world is immeasurable with anything else. Over time, the treatment of infertility has turned into a powerful medical fertilization industry. One attempt at medical insemination in America costs over $10,000, 4 to 5000 euros in Europe, about 10,000 kuna in Croatia. However, any such attempt is not successful. The success of the method is about 24%, and the remaining 75% of human embryos are being destroyed, i.e. It's killing. This means that only every fourth woman in the first attempt stays pregnant. Despite these difficulties, the painful procedure and the affairs of assisted human reproduction technologies have been imposed as an optimal solution to the problems of infertile couples. The value of this project has become unquestionable especially because it gives couples eager children hope in their offspring. It is our position in the HSS that human life, regardless of the conditions and circumstances of coming to this world, is always a gift and a world. And precisely because it is a human life and a gift and the world that makes it possible for him to come to this world in a way that protects and promotes his dignity in creation. Human dignity in its creation is not related to the way, condition, or circumstance of its coming into the world just as human dignity but human beings are not related to any external factors. So neither for race, gender, ethnicity, class, or social status, but they are innate and are therefore absolutely inalienable and uninjurious. At the present level of knowledge of the complexity of life’s phenomena, we do not know until the end why someone is deprived of the possibility of giving birth. We are even less familiar with the effects on the offspring of therapeutic mechanical and chemical entanglement in human procreativeity. Responsibility for others, i.e. The progeny requires that in these matters man be critical and responsible. Life is unquestionable, and we in HSS advocate the protection of every form of human life from conception to natural causes, and we believe that we should follow Croatian laws as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78824	Thank you very much, counsel Petyr. It is up to the HDSSB club and distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with my associates, so I don't count anything further. This morning, when we came to work in the Parliament, we were welcomed by a book called "Croatia, Society and the state of prosperity". It was issued by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I didn't think this book I've been going through for now because I just got it in my hands to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination with the final bill of law. I should say immediately in connection with this legislative proposal that this is a small and significant step forward for those for whom it is needed, for those cases of severe medical indication and indication of human fertilisation, and in terms of freezing the embryos, so the HDSB club will be on Friday when voting on this legislative proposal for. But in doing so, Mr. Minister, as well as your associates, I must not touch the general policy of the Republic of Croatia. You said that by means of medical insemination in the Republic of Croatia, 2.7 percent when I speak 2.7 children, percent of children, or a thousand and 100 other things. This means that more than 41, 2,000 children were born in the Republic of Croatia. And so for years, about 40 to 42 thousand children are born in that number. This is why I brought this book of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which says on page 16, and the same book shows the growth of the population in the Republic of Croatia in this territory which currently has the Republic of Croatia from 1500 until here in 2008. The population increased by these 500 years by 4 times, but when we look and compare other countries of Europe, then we see that at the same time Finland increased by 10 times, Germany by 12 times, etc. They also have other information that says that, apart from saying these discussions that are constantly here, as you yourself have said between attitudes and efforts and criticisms of the SDP and HDZ, there is something else. So in 1950, when Croatia had 3 million 900 inhabitants, 3 million 900 thousand inhabitants, 95,000 children were born in Croatia. In 2005, when Croatia had about 4 and 400 million inhabitants, so 500 thousand more, it was born 2 and a half times fewer children or 42,000. Let's talk about other data, that the age of firstborn in the Republic of Croatia, the age of firstborn, women who first give birth increased from 24 to 27 years, that marriages are made in the Republic of Croatia about 5 years later, we talk about life, rather than, say, 1950. In the year, both in men and in women, that Slavonia and Baranja lost, she lost under quotes, from 2001 to 2011 according to the census of the population of 100,000, from the total loss of the population of 200 thousand, so Slavonia herself as a fifth of Croatia lost 100,000 inhabitants, so half of Croatia's population reduction. That's where we look, let's not worry about it, and it's a human pain when man and woman, when people in marriage want to have a child, but here I'm talking about 97.3% where we have a constant number of births, with interesting, and if I tell you that the number of deaths in 1950, when health care was we can say that FNRJ health died in Croatia 47 thousand people, in 2005, 51 thousand 790 died, and then when we look at the ratio of live births and the number of deaths we have minus 10,000 inhabitants, almost disappears a year from Nova Gradiška. Done. Why? And we're a little academic here to say, and I don't know from the surveillance of those left ones, so the Christian who we belong to, here's to say pretty harshly to say we're discussing and hanging out about it. What's the reason for this, this trend, this negative trend? The first thing Croatia is old and the second is the difference between the number of deaths and the number of live births is increasing in favour of the number of deaths, and the total number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia falls. Is it, then, that young people, are therefore fertilely able not to say, not to explain what it is, delaying marriage for career reasons, for the sake of an unsettled housing issue. How can I buy it? I got a doctor's apartment when I finished med school in '76. For years, he solved his living issue. Who gets an apartment today? Maybe football players, but it's hard for someone else. They have transfers, bigger than, better than doctors, doctors don't have millions when they go from an institution to an institution, like those from a club to a club. They're less significant obviously for this society than football players. The country's generally poor social status remains, and for the general poor social status of this country is responsible, they are responsible by ruling, and that is it. I'd much prefer Mr. Minister if we had a relationship that isn't 2 whole, an increase in the birth of a medical fertilization to be much less that percentage, to be much more of those who came into the world to say the natural way, and we're boasting, or you're boasting that it's increased, so God forbid it's 50%. Next thing you know, no one's asking, what leads to the sterility of marriage? Do we have a prevention of that? Is there any chance that part, the number of 100,000 sterile marriages, could be reduced? That people do not seek so much help with medical insemination, but that a child can begin by natural means. What are we doing in that field? And it's part of the Ministry of Health, and that prevention and everything that goes to schools, etc., explaining, drawing not to say. So this debate here is about this short legislative proposal has gone too far, but let's ask ourselves, actually these are the real questions, these are life issues for the survival of Croatia and the Croatian people and the citizens of the Republic, not to prejudge any nation, people's minorities, etc. Because of this, there are particularly difficult cases in which there is a medical indication for the freezing of embryos, and in the desire of people to get their offspring which is natural human to say the need and natural human desire that exists in every human being whether any of the MPs or representatives of their offspring, so at the HDSSB club we will support this one so that I say is not a cosmetic, cosmetic but a small step forward and in your views of the minister and your ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78826	Thank you very much. We've finished discussing the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate. First enlisted by distinguished colleague Romana Jerkovic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, after the inauguration of the opposition of the Ministers of Expose, I am giving myself the right to qualify for the Ministers of Expose for 30 minutes, it could really be called how much talk and not say anything. Except that there were insults against the metrics of things we haven't actually heard a single word. The most convenient example was that of SDP's health policy and the example you gave to the ministers when you said it would be or imagine what it would be like to build schools without having money and not having a financial structure. You are indeed invited to talk about this because here you have been building the Peljech Bridge for 8 years, and without a single kuna. Or the fact that it's not good not to read the law. I don't think it's correct to say something like that because then you can answer that here you seem to be the only one who hasn't read the law the first time, not the second time, not the third time because you've talked about everything, you're just not talking about the law. So, for me, there's actually no fundamental difference between this law that we're discussing today and the law that we discussed in July and November, because the law in July was bad, the law in November was bad, and this one was just a little less bad. So it's less bad, but it stays bad. How this segment of healthcare should be arranged and I think we have already shown as a party on several occasions in our proposal for a law that we discussed in 2008. You refused the law, of course. We have put into practice a new proposal of the Biomedical Fertilisation Act, and in this proposal of the law, we are talking about European practice and how to achieve the best possible results in terms of the methods and technology available today. Unfortunately, the SDP's proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination is transmitted from the session to the session on the agenda is getting lower and lower and seems quite certain that on the agenda of this session and this assembly will neither come nor come, but what we can say for certain is that it will be one of the first points in the new assembly. I personally find it unacceptable that in the 21st century, Croatian and Croatian citizens, because of someone's conservative worldview, they cannot exercise constitutionally guaranteed rights. So it is not disputed that a man, that a party has some kind of a worldview, is even less controversial that a man according to his own worldview and lives. However, politics and the state are not here to favor some worldview. Politics and the state are here to ensure the achievement of the Constitution-guaranteed healthcare and treatment rights. And eventually to allow everyone to live by their own worldview. Medical insemination is a bad law. That fact is I would say in direct correlation, directly related to another important fact, which is that disrespecting the profession by the competent ministry is actually alarming. And the Law on Medical Aided Insemination is not really the only law, it is not the only example of law-making without one quality public debate and with the active participation of all interested, so both the professional public and the general public and civil society, etc. And then, of course, what has happened with this law in the past two years has happened very often. Thus, the law is either inapplicable or not yielding good results or subject to as in this case the word very frequent changes. Here we are, and we are passing this law by emergency procedure. Although there is no other option, it has simply become your practice and I am sorry that this procedure has become a form of law-making. So if I were to remind you of your consistency, your credibility, and I'd say competence, then in 2009, we passed a law that we had to change after only two months. So you had to change a law that didn't even come into life in practice. It is interesting that in July 2009, you explained it with one rhetoric, and after a few months you defended the same law with a warm and bitter second rhetoric. So, in July, let me remind you, because here you reminded us of a lot of things, in July 2009, it was only the marriage that was before God. But after a few months, you changed your mind. So, for you, the extramarital community couldn't even itself out with the marriage community. After a few months, you changed your mind. In July you violated the donor's right to anonymity, after only a few months you changed your mind. I remember very well one of your sentences, you said I wouldn't change the law unless I decided otherwise, I think you remember that too. Well, you've made up your mind again. Like I said, and I'm going to do it over and over again here and elsewhere, the law is a bad law. And I think he rightly got a number, the last two years of the epithet he got from being inquisition, that he was ineffective, that he was conservative, that he was discriminating, I think it was all right. Few who have received so many criticisms from every possible public like this law and rightly so. And it's precisely your appearance today and this debate about this law that confirms it all. For us from the SDP, this is an extremely important law. It is important first that every year we have less and less and because it is true that in fact the almost greatest Croatian deficit at this moment is just the deficit of newborns. Therefore, all resources should be placed in the function of restoring the demographic image of Croatia and another state is indeed obliged to take care of the health of its citizens in such a way as to provide them with what is available through the development of technology and science. And as is available, we have said so many times, so this is a bad law for me because it will not first contribute to improving the demographic image of Croatia, secondly, because it violates the human rights and provisions of the Constitution, because it discriminates, disdains, so if you want and insults citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it continues to prohibit the freezing of embryos. So, you are persistent in one bad law, in one of the most rigid laws in Europe that has significantly violated acquired rights, which adversely affects women's health, which accumulates and reduces the success of the fertilisation process and has made it even more difficult for all those with infertility problems to get to the desired child. So I could conclude, it's really time for the medicine to go back to the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78828	Thank you very much. We have three rectifications. Then he came forward on behalf of the prime minister, first of all the distinguished colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A series of incorrect allegations, the first law is bad, violates the provisions of the Constitution and human rights and a very dangerous quote by a colleague adversely affects the health of a woman. It is apparent from the data that the proportion of newborn children from the medical fertilisation process in the total number of newborn children is 2.7%, which is at European average. All of them, I'm not going to repeat that information the minister was talking about. Another false allegation, you said we weren't here to promote a worldview, we're two different worlds, you've been chosen by one political group of people based on your political agenda, and I've been chosen by another group of people based on my political programme and based on my worldview, and my democracy is a world view that I have to promote in this House right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78830	Thank you. Dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I noticed these incorrect allegations made by my colleague Caparin but I would refer to the one where my colleague Jerkovic said that the minister had spoken a lot without entering the scale of the matter. It's absolutely incorrect, the minister made it very clear that all the indicators that speak in favour of the good implementation of this law, we know of course it doesn't suit you. The other thing, you said on several occasions the law is bad and not good at all. It's kind of a fear of a sensitive population for me, and then you're saying that people are being neglected, so you should think about it that way at a time when birth benefits were reduced, child benefits were reduced, so it led to 10,000 less-born children.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78832	Thank you. Dear colleague Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Jerkovic when she said that they in the SDP are concerned that we have as little as possible every year. I don't know if they've been worried about it since 2000. In the years when they had not scrupulously reduced birth benefits, they took away all the social and maternity rights when Mr. Linic told the births what full maternity benefits would be, so she doesn't do anything anyway, pregnant women, but sits at home. Likewise, this government knows very well, and it is her motto that the family is at the heart of everything, and when the family has given its dignity to the family and returned it will be all in the right place. Since I don't have much time for your family opinions, you're talking about yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78834	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78835	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, we see a discrepancy in the thinking of the SDP Club. Your esteemed representative Mrsic says that we allow the freezing of the mattresses you say in your debate that we do not allow it, so make arrangements whether you will work on the highway to Dubrovnik or not, it looks something like that to me. But there's one more thing I need to make clear, and that's how it's understandable to everyone. I said first we will not allow the freezing of 20 eggs, fertilization of all 20 and then 17 or 18 frozen and that for 10500 embryos, living beings no one today in the Republic of Croatia will worry today, and that our club will not allow, HDZ will not go into such changes. But what changes we're going to go to, I'm going to tell you, I have an example from my environment. A woman with a severe lack of sex cells, it happened in five years that the punctures couldn't find a single egg cell. After five years of trying to thank God all of a sudden, six egg cells have been punctured, at which point we will allow all six egg cells to fertilize and if all six egg cells are fertilized, they will allow these three remaining cells to be stored that cannot be transferred back to the woman. So, a very clear provision in which we allow the storage of the mattresses. So we're saying that we're, you're talking about you some kind of negative side of this bill again. We're more liberal about the extramarital community. For me, marriage, for me personally, is only in front of God and in front of the church. I respect that. But I respect you, too, that I don't know personally, but let's take an example, that it doesn't mean anything to you, okay? But I also respect you for nothing in church to say yes. I respect that. But let you respect me and most of us in Croatia for what it means. As for the extramarital community, we are more liberal than Italy, Hungary, Ireland, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Germany, Poland, Luxembourg. As far as the law is concerned, we are similar to Italy, Ireland, Poland, Germany and Switzerland. And that's why I once again plead don't scare couples with this law and don't try to politicize this law again because there's really no reason. And here's the end if you'll allow me to be the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representative Pusic doesn't have her here, she said I offended her. I want to read before you the words of a song that she thinks I offended her because it reminded me. So, "Beautiful and vague to be true, you still love me but you don't have time. How do I know what I'm on but I can't figure out what you're on? For no real reason, we admire for days, more than usual, nothing interests us. Too late and unclear to be true, more than usual we play with words." Where's this love song from the Jinx group, right, where that insult is, I don't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78836	Here's some lyric. But we also have the transport of two corrections of the quote, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78837	Well, Mr. Minister, in this example of his life, simply showed what's going on in Croatia. That woman was supposed to make an egg donation. If we had a bank, it would be. On the other hand, the question is what are the consequences for this woman who has been stimulated for five years. But I repeat, this law will be changed by the arrival of the SDP and will allow for the freezing of mattresses for all those who need it, and not only for those who unfortunately have a medical indication that we have another way. Thus, the freezing of mattresses is a golden standard throughout Europe. We are one white dot that will be filled with the arrival of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78838	Okay. It'll be what it's gonna be and what it's gonna be. But we have another application for correction of the alleged, distinguished counterpart Vice President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78839	Well, here's a little bit. In fact, Minister Milinovic was talking about how he cared deeply about church marriage and how there are those who don't care and he looked very hard at me on that occasion, so that it might not remain unclear I would correct it. In fact, I always did before I got married, and before I changed in the 1990s, I cared about church marriage, and I believed in it, and I respect it. In fact, the former party forbade you from faith, and that is why I have always been further away from the party. And Mr. Milinovic was an active youth, a member of the party and supported the letter, wrote to the presidents and parties who banned faith. So I think it's clear this way that you wouldn't be left with maybe God don't let some confusion and a misunderstanding that this is all about. Who doesn't care who's consistent and who's inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78840	Okay. Thank you very much. There were more insinuations here to correct the view than to the words spoken, but further to the debate there was a distinguished colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78841	Well, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representing the law, and now here's instead of sticking to the reasoning of the law, you've been quoting us a song, it's a special verse, let's play with words. Mr. Milinovic, play with your words, as far as I'm concerned, play with a bucket and now with pre-election shovels, but don't play with human destiny. This also warns you about the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Discrimination of all forms of such behaviour against women, which was adopted in 1951, which Croatia ratified in 1991, and which states that in terms of planned pregnancy and medically assisted fertilisation, all modern solutions that are the most painless for women are found. We heard from Mr. Minister when he was representing the law in the 7th month of 2009, and now his beliefs of which he gave up abruptly. But that's irrelevant, it doesn't matter what he believes, and it doesn't matter what his beliefs are. It's important, and if there was a power to do that, that at the heart of the law, and especially this kind of law be a mother, first and foremost, a future child. But it's not there. When James Watson and his partner Francis Crick discovered the structure of DNA at the discovery of the secret life in 1953, of course this epochal discovery was also interviewed on these issues. So they asked him, how do you feel about medically assisted insemination? And he said, you know what I mean, I think men should stay as far away from this topic as possible. And that is why it is sad that in the Croatian Parliament it should be, that women should, because otherwise it is common in all democratic societies, in Europe, in the European Parliament when it comes to such an important topic, women and children, that, regardless of the political orientation of women, they must stick together. And not only because the international conventions we all unanimously adopt, which we sign, and after we have no idea what we sign or commit to anyone, it is our old habit to stop at the EU threshold, especially by entering the EU. Defending the bill when it was passed so bitterly, so determined that no one could think until the change of government that the same minister could change. But he said he denied it, but not enough. Perhaps if it took so long, it could take so many decades to come to what we had in 2003 and what the light saw on the day of 2004. But such slowness and such negligence cannot endure those who are old and who are eager to wait for the child. Well, we all know that, it doesn't need to be a medic to know that a woman who has decided to give birth and that she will do everything and that Minister Milinovic won't be an obstacle to her, it's unfortunate that she will have to be in charge of it, that she will have to go abroad, and that's a shame, that our people, our wives, our partners must go abroad. When we were in that system, in that political structure we were the fourth country in Europe, and the seventh country in the world to create a child from the test tube, we were among the most developed countries in human reproduction, and where we are now. The minister often likes to compare how the law is due to the number of children who have seen the light of day under the law. It's manipulation you know why, because the council is well aware of, because the ministry knows that, because for a long time before the law was passed, every financial aid was almost dead. That's what my colleague Mrsic said on behalf of the club. So the convention I mentioned, I will read to you the provision of Article 12, which is said to say that Croatia has signed this, that Member States must take appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of health and protection in order to ensure, on the basis of equality of women and men, available health care services including all forms relating to family planning and medically assisted fertilisation and those forms of medically assisted insemination that are the safest for women. The example Mr. Milinovic was now talking to him about a woman, and he forgets about that woman he mentioned earlier, so in 2009, and then he says here when he was standing by his attitude that he had broken into the law so that out-of-marriage partners couldn't access medically assisted insemination. And she tells me she came to me, and I quote from a stenogram, and a woman came to me, and you know what she said, here's Mr. Minister, I live in an extramarital community, and we can't have kids, and by this law, I wouldn't have the right to medically assisted insemination, so tell me why. And I'm very simple to her, and I'll dare say it here, but we'll talk about the discrimination of the extramarital community, so I mention women, we can mention men, it's a little bit vague. But here's the saying: so I said this friend of yours isn't ready to say fatefully that in front of a parent, share for me just a little bit, let me finish, in front of a parent, say yes, in front of a parent I'll say yes, but for what's most important, most sacred, in front of God for better or for worse. Here's Mr. Minister gave up God already in the first eye. And that is why it would be good in the Croatian Parliament that when you are already living by it, that is, when you want to show special devotion to a particular confession to do it with your spells, behavior, and not with mildness. And if that's the way it's mentioned, then here's what I'm going to tell you, and the first commandment, don't mention Mr. Minister of God in vain because you mentioned him and now you've given up and you're still coming here to defend such a law. So it's not clear, sir, is this about changes or is it not about amendments to that law that you said was so good, but that's already the game of words I said, I denied and so. However, do not ever call on such determination because it has never been in Croatia's history until 2000, without speaking since 2003, but since 2004, the Government has so determinedly passed laws and so determinedly gave up on them and everything has been shown by its own determination and willingness. So, by such determination, you must encourage yourself. But let's go back to the very point that's far more important than some bickering. However, even with this bill, women will not be satisfied, they will have to go abroad and you remain that they are not allowed except in exceptional, exceptional situations to freeze embryos. You see, according to this law of yours which you so boast and its successes, a woman from a small coastal place said I had a job, a young woman, I can't have children, and since your restrictive law which in this sense will not change she had to change, so every time, unfortunately, everything was unsuccessful, but each time she would have to keep her pregnancy lying down for 14 days. Her employer knew that and it was several times and he said so he couldn't anymore and he knew how to get her out of work. She got fired. So, Mr. Minister, thanks to you, the woman not having a child, she's lost her child, she's lost her job, and she's asked me to really have one more wish, to run out of a government like this that's playing rough with her fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78842	There is also desire and fulfillment of wishes, etc., but there is also a request for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Carmela Caparin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A series of incorrect allegations, one of the terrible allegations is that in this law there is no mother or child in the center, that it is nowhere in the law. My colleague, in these words, you have really demoted the profession behind this law, so doctors who deal with human reproduction and the entire National Commission for Medical Insemination. So the words you've spoken are too scary. Mothers will have to be in charge and go abroad. On the contrary, many from abroad come to Croatia and I believe that they will continue to be an example, and I have already said that the proportion of newborn children from the medical fertilisation process in the total number of newborn children is 2.7% at the level of the European average. The waiting lists for medical fertilisation procedures have been reduced and are practically not pending at all. Before you know it's been up to a year. You're saying that so far the government has not been determined to pass laws. Yes, the government has passed decisive laws so far, and I believe in the future assembly of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78844	Dear colleague Ivan Bagarić, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78845	Mr. Minister, my colleague Caparin corrected most of what I thought was correct, although I remain in this regard, so that at the heart of this Law, the basic attention of this Law should be focused on child and life. On the other hand, a colleague is really playing with her inaccuracies with all of us here but also with the public. So when she finds out that our people have to go outside, our people have freedom. We can't tie anyone up, people have freedom, they have choices, they can travel wherever they want and choose what they want, and the best proof that you're wrong and that it's a public deception is exactly what is clearly said here that there is not really a waiting list in Croatia for medical fertilization. Is there anything else to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78846	And the third application of the correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic made several incorrect allegations mentioned by predecessors. But I noticed where she said that the health minister was playing with human destiny and that the main obstacle was to exercise the right to medical insemination. That's absolutely incorrect. The Minister of Health is, after 40 years, this law of '78. It was initiated by this Act in 2009. It's a double amount of money he's provided for this. But it's also interesting when you say it's important to be a mother at the heart of this law and to be a child. How come you didn't remember that when you cut those mothers' birth benefits drastically? How could you not remember when you were taking children from the mouth, etc. That therefore confirms that my thesis that words without action do not do much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78848	We also have a registered replica, a distinguished colleague of Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78849	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you mentioned the number of children, i.e. the problem of the depopulation and the restrictions that are cited in different ways through our health system, impose and make it difficult to solve this problem. Maybe this law can't, that it's different and that the minister accepts these proposals to make big leaps and make some kind of boom, baby boom. But of course every child means more than that. However, I am not surprised by this tenacity and this kind of hypocrisy that goes through this Law because there are a whole series of other measures that suggest that the ministry does not actually take care of it and that it takes measures that reduce the possibility of women simply having a quick birth in these situations. I'll warn you about the maternity game. First the minister shut them down. Then some of them opened up to you, but only for pre-election promotion. There's been a gynecologist's call for a gynecologist's birth certificate, people come forward, and then they get information that it's just a joke, that it's a message to the public because the excuse that this birthplace doesn't reopen is that no one's interested in working in that maternity home, maybe costs are too high, maybe your calculations are right. But the hypocrisy with which this policy is trying to invest in the public and to go to favour citizens' demands, and in fact to work against citizens' demands, but also against a greater number of births of children, is something that I cannot keep from here especially because I wanted to warn the minister in peace and silence about the situation, illegality, lies and fraud. But he refused to communicate at all and had no time to communicate on it. Here's the minister, now I'm publicly asking why you lie to people, and why are you cheating on people?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78850	Let's not do that, pals! Because you called for a replica, not a debate, and then you spoke to the minister. Is that an insult or don't say she's lying? I don't think it's okay, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78851	So I think colleagues here, you shouldn't be surprised, but places still have a grudge with this kind of behavior, this kind of perseverance where the female body serves Mr. Minister as a polygon where he will demonstrate his power. That can't happen. The government must and the minister, especially when laws like this are passed, listen to what they say first and foremost to the woman herself, because it concerns her body, all those sufferings that are subject to. It's not the easy therapy she's been thrown out of every time. And that's why the voice of women here needs to be heard more, if not already to be dominant.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78852	Let the voice of women be heard, but let the injury of the Rules of Procedure be heard. Comrade Caparin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78853	Dear Vice President, I think my colleague has hurt Article 209. She as a woman can't talk about women, about women's bodies as polygons. Shame on you, co-worker. No female body [[/Invader Marinović: Shame on you! I said that's what the minister does.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78854	Let's not do that. None of us heard the minister say that. But here, you asked for more women's voices, and now you see when two of you answered what it looked like. And we're moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here's my colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, it is perfectly understandable that on this highly sensitive subject we have such conflicting views because we simply do not go from the same assumptions, from the same beliefs and beliefs. I repeat my opinion, or I believe I share that opinion with our entire club. Right to medical insemination yes, and the right to a child as we have listened here at all costs is not. There are no dear colleagues who spoke from the SDP either in Croatian or in any laws of this world and declarations of what you spoke about in the way you said that people have the right to realize I don't know my child. And I repeat, the right to any kind of assistance, to help medically achieve this in any case needs to be done. Whenever people decide, or their doctors do this procedure, for the procedure of medical insemination, then always... They need to know that the process of medical insemination is certainly not without risk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that should be clear to everyone. So it doesn't mean that if we're into medical insemination and we support it, we shouldn't be aware of all the risks it carries. I repeated it both this morning and on behalf of the club, and now I repeat the most quoted, best, most valuable medical journals, regardless of what the beliefs of the ideological, their editors or those who write these articles speak of how actually medical insemination and all the procedures that go with it are always followed by risks, which may have side effects, which range from prenatal mortality, premature birth, low birth weight, impediment in gestational development, platante... , gestational diabetes, prevlams, then accommodation, more frequent accommodation on intensive care units for newborns and many other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should be aware of that. It should be understood and not consider that medical insemination is the only way to solve the problem some face with a major problem in the way they say having a child is their right and no one can stand in that way. When it comes to the success of this current law, i.e. I would say medical professions in the Republic of Croatia related to medical fertilisation, then no one can dispute what has already been pointed out several times that in Croatia only 24% more children were born in one year, that, in just one year from the year before when this law was not applied 36, that we have 36, by 35.6% more births, that we have 23.4% more pregnancy, so we are talking about 2009 and 2010, that the list of waitings in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced in a way that is practically not available, and that is the best answer to those who constantly and persistently abuse it is that Croats, or our women, are forced to go outside and do not know that medical insecution abroad because it does not appear in Croatia. When it comes to this amendment and the addition of this bill, we have heard different interpretations here than those that actually talk about some fundamental, major change, to those that talk about that there is no change at all. I can only understand them in one way, and that is how it stands here, and that is that in special cases, with the approval of a doctor who manages this procedure and with the approval, that is, the respect of the commission dealing with this problem can be left out of Article 15, and he and his most important provision is that in one procedure it is not allowed to enter into the sex organs of a woman more than three embryos. So if that's the case, if that's the case, then I don't understand this provision of the law as necessarily a freezing plot, nor the storage of that plot, nor would I say adding that cover to that mass of embryos that were before this bill were and which were, in fact, in the way they were unfortunately frozen. When a colleague Mrsic talks about the so-called. Gold standard, then it's about the standard of frozen entanglement. I have to say here that the golden standard is also changing, and that it's dependent on the progress of the profession, on the progress of technology, on the progress of science, because something must be the golden standard now, yesterday and forever, and once the golden standard was for a person who couldn't get pregnant to drink her own urine. And that used to be a gold standard, because people didn't understand, they didn't know anymore, so it's totally unacceptable thesis, I speak from our point of view, from our point of view, completely unacceptable. And so I think it is very important, Mr. Minister, that this law is constantly followed, that I would constantly say, systematically oversee the implementation of this law, and that there is constant, constant insight into what is being done, especially after this amendment of the law, that there should not be another day of abuse of this amendment in such a way that one doctor or God forbids the commission also declares those who are not just the same in this category and that no, that there is no kind of abuse that I am talking about, which is, unfortunately, as in any other way possible. As far as I'm concerned, she's absolutely unacceptable, and as far as I'm concerned, it's absolutely unacceptable to freeze the cover that will then be attached to that deposit of traps that are there tens of thousands, and we can't agree to that no matter what anyone says about it and no matter how anyone represents his right to exercise his right to his child. Finally, it is not the only way and the only answer when it comes to having, or giving birth to a child of medical insemination. There are other techniques, there are other ways, there are ultimately the adoption of a child. I do not believe that the adopted child is less child, less important child, less valuable, less loved, less with less respect than the one which was born naturally. And my people know each other, we know that there are people who don't know the animal they worship and who they see almost as a family member, including a dog, a cat, etc. So imagine a adopted child, in which the difference between that child and his relationship with him is, such as any other child, any other child, because the child and the relationship of the child and parents is not achieved by biological, or only by conception as such, but by life and life. In the end, I'm going to finish, because I see that my time is already running out with two findings, or two examples. We must not accept and agree to be a golden standard of behavior among other things so that a woman does everything and has a hard time doing everything in order to have a child by medical insemination, then giving birth to a child by natural means, and after that, the third time, she comes into the office to have her own third child who received natural abortion. These are simply unacceptable, incomprehensible things, let's not allow any kind of game with the creator himself, because I don't know which street we're going to fall into. And in the end, I personally was with a man a few days ago who I know went through all the medical insemination and failure. And the last time he was four years ago, I thought he'd given up on it. He raised his hands because he no longer believed that it could happen for his wife to start, to be pregnant. And now I see him and the man says my wife is three months pregnant. So, naturally, she's three months pregnant spontaneously. So, my people, what is not possible to humans, is possible and should be trusted. And we're different from that, some of us believe that, some of us aren't, and that's the fundamental difference between us. But those who do not believe in it, and who do not have that kind of connection, and who do not destroy it, let them not break our thread, those who have a link there. I don't think the only marriage is made before God, but for me, it's for me. By not diminishing the importance of the marriage of those who do not believe and who have concluded in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78856	Thank you, colleague Bagaric. Your time is up. We have a report of a correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78857	Well, my colleague Bagarić is a doctor, like me, who performed a lot of inaccuracies and contradictions. I'd first ask him to apologize to all the foster parents for declaring their children unnatural. These are normal children who were born conceived in marriage. Therefore, I ask you to apologize to all those whom you have offended with your indiscretion. Secondly, medicine is proven on evidence, not on anecdotes, so give us proof of what you said. And third, there will either be freezing or there will be no freezing. In your pledoayou failed to answer that, that is what it is and said that sometimes a man disagrees with his own opinion. Probably that's a bright example of how that's in your case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78858	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78859	Well, I wouldn't be correcting the wrong quote just to take advantage of the violation of the Rules of Procedure where my colleague blatantly violated the Rules of Procedure in fact falsely interpreting what I said about adopted children. I did not say, God forbid, that they were born differently than I said when a family is naturally through their own family, husband, and wife, they cannot have children that are equally valuable and adopted. And that's the absolute and most important difference in what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78860	Thank you. ... Well, I think that if you listen, then you will see that that is not the case because your colleague Bagaric spoke about how love develops, especially for children and family. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Caparin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you took a very good look at the difficulties that a woman faces and complications that can come from everything, and therefore I strongly opposed this sentence as a female body as a polygon because it is really embarrassing to say at all in the Croatian Parliament, but a woman who undergoes medical insemination encounters such difficulties, not only she but also her husband. It's psychological stress, it's one terrible burden, not to mention the terrible invasive methods they encounter. It is not easy to access hormonal stimulation, so one aggression with hormones on the body, to its entire hormonal status and to provoke these cells. It's also not easy to pass that laparopy or histeroscopy or any recording where the contrast is entered into her body. So, what I'm saying is how painful all these tests are. Maybe it's that way for us politicians here and quite simply, some people talk, not to me, because I come from a medical profession and I totally understand them. And I wouldn't want to discourage them, let them try to do it all because the desire for a child is stronger above all else. But after all, I think you've made a good point of saying that, in any case, we should move towards the adoption of children because those children are going to come across such a great love precisely from those people who want and love children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78862	Replication response, colleague Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Caparin, therefore, did all she could to provide answers to those couples who could not have children naturally. This minister here had so much courage to get into this problem. It was indeed one field unsettled, I would say almost unknown in Croatia what anyone does. I don't think anyone knew what anyone was doing in Croatia. So he got into this problem, remember the effort we've made here to pass this bill and to suffer and to insult it all. But not only from the opposition, but also from to God's independent, NGOs, etc., where often people have no idea what they represent, what they're saying, and they're not even aware of the matter and the importance of the matter I'm talking about. So what you just said, when I mention adoption, I just wanted to say, it's not like there's a relationship between father, mother and child developing in a way that is biologically effective in parenting, that is, the achievement of that offspring, but it's developing with both life and relationship that's equally important. So at that time, I don't believe in it, I know these situations at the end, I know these situations as well as you know family relations where such relationships between these family members are really developed where there's no difference, as if it's actually their own child. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78864	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's my dear fellow Stazic, here's my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78865	Thank you very much. We have two laws on medically assisted insemination in the procedure of the Assembly. The one we are now discussing and the one that sent SDP to the parliamentary procedure on 2 November 2009. For reasons of economics, but also elemental logic would be normal if we had a united debate today. But we didn't because if we did, we'd be showing all the differences in quality between the two legal proposals. Fearing such comparison, HDZ does not want a united debate and leaves our law at 74th place. I'm taking a crazy risk here today for reporting for an individual debate because I'm putting aside the danger of HDZ getting up on a lawsuit against me over a verbal delinquent like he did in the case of a colleague, Jovanovic. Why? Because I'm going to say that for two years with your legal proposal, you've been harassing infertile couples in an extremely sadistic way, completely unnecessary. The acting law of the minister says it is wrong to claim that the existing law is bad, the law is good and that is why we are changing it. Many when entering the third grade of high school and when with such... Minister Milinovic would come before the logic teacher at 3. A high school class, he'd get a low grade, and he wouldn't fix it until he learned logically. The law is bad, so it changes because it's bad. Minister Milinovic is also illogical when he claims the results are better at a time when GDP is down by 0.5% that the results are better than when economic growth at the time of Racan's government was 5.6%. We continue inaccuracy, the ministers were not 5.6 of the highest economic growth at the time of Racan's government at 6.7%. But it's illogical for you to boast that with 6.7% of the country's economic growth, it's down to 0.5%. It would make sense to apologize to the citizens for that, not to brag about it. You have logic problems when you claim that something is in the same sense and it is not at the same time. You're saying you'll never let the cover freeze because you'll let it happen. What's changing in this law, what's being complemented? It is said to be Article 15. They will not apply in some cases, so as this article says. Which one won't apply? He says: “In the out-of-body fertilisation procedure, no more than 3 egg cells obtained in one procedure can be fertilized. ” So it won't apply, so it'll fertilize more than three egg cells in one procedure. And what happens to those fertilized egg cells or traps? Three will return and the others will freeze. You claim that what you wrote in the law will not happen. This is primarily an ethical issue, and when ethical issues are related then it is difficult to expect a consensus of all social groups and all people. What is this ethical problem based on? It is based on a simple question of whether the embryo is a fertilized egg cell represents life or whether it is biological material. The question isn't easy, it's not simple. If it represents life and cannot be frozen because it represents life and not biological material, no higher goal can justify unethical behavior. But you say it's unethical we won't allow it, and that's why we allow it. The second ethical position can be fertilized by an egg cell still does not represent life in its filling, it is biological material, it can be used in medically assisted fertilisation, and the excess will freeze. That standard applies in Europe. I will not answer the question, nor can I, nor know, whether it is ethical or not ethical, but what I call you to be logical, if you find anything unethical, then don't put it into the law and boast that you are ethical because it's nonsense, it's absurd. The only question now is if we've already allowed it, you say in exceptional cases, what are the exceptional cases? Exceptional cases are lack, lack of sexual cells in men or women, that's why infertility, lack of sex cells. And now, in that particular case, when there is a shortage of fertile cells, it will allow the freezing of embryos. And for other reasons, man has access to medically assisted fertilization at all than if a man or woman or both have a lack of sex cells. Infertile, I'm not going to deal with you anymore, I think I've made it quite clear how unusual you are with your actions, I'm not going to deal with HDZ at all, you're dealing with the media these days, you're dealing with the State's Attorney's Office, I'm going to deal with the citizens. I only have one message for infertile couples, don't go abroad, don't go to Slovenia, don't go to Austria, don't spend any money, don't buy postcards and send it to Minister Milinovic, it's a pity of that money, Minister Milinovic is on his way out. Wait 4. Prosinca will come a new government, will pass a law by which you will be able to cure your infertility in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78866	Thank you. We've got four applications for a rectification. First of all, dear fellow Hebrang. Here's my colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78867	Thank you very much. Unargumented discussion by colleagues Stazic goes as well as a series of incorrect allegations so time will allow only a couple. He says HDZ and the minister are afraid to discuss SDP's law over its contents. We are not afraid of your Law because of a world-wide mirror where only a living creature is killed, and that fear will remain in us and he is justified. The second you're saying that we're talking about sterile marriages in a sadistic way, the figures show you what happened to these people and how much they've made a big step with the new law, and sadism is politicizing their tragedy, and that's what you're doing. And finally, colleagues Stazic doesn't understand the figures, you see in the report that improvements range in percentages of 20 to 30 percent. I understand that even though it's incorrect. I understand because you understand only one number and that's number seven, it costs so much for you to spend your summers on Brijuni.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78868	Carmela Caparin, rectification of the quote. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78869	Thank you very much. I would correct the quote, sterile couples in... way, I don't think there's even a comment on how much colleagues are politicizing about this law. On the other hand, he says the law is bad and that's why you're changing it. That's not true, it's not the whole law that changes, it's just article 15, not because he's bad, it's just a colleague because that's what the waist says. This isn't a bagatelization like you think, so write some kind of text so give it, it's still a gynecologist behind it, and it's science. And that's why you need to be very careful and careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78870	Correction of the alleged distinguished colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Stazić you in your political speech, but not at all professionally which we did not expect because you are not these professions, but at least you were able to establish and acknowledge the profession. You're just saying this, harassing infertile couples with your law. No, my colleague Stazic, the data and I believe the experts tell the contrary, exactly the data suggests that there was more medical insemination in 2010 that there were multiple births, that there were more pregnancies, the data suggest that this law was achieved and that double the resources for these percentages were allocated. That's what the data says. And what you feel or anyone else is something else. People need to be told the truth, they need to trust the profession, not our guesses or feelings.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78872	Correction of the quote by his colleague Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78873	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, look, I'm a doctor, but I don't feel like an expert in this matter, because I don't do this. And you said I wasn't an expert, but then you brought professional qualifications like that that's actually medical insemination and that's all you said about the lack of a sex cell. That's not true, so that's not true. It can only be one part true, it's not entirely true as it isn't true and a lot of what you've brought out here, and I hope you won't come to power, not just because you're the other side and the opposition, but because you're not going to pass some law that's going to enable what's not to be made possible. That's my belief.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78874	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Milinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78875	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Every insult should be answered with dignity, politeness, as we lead the election campaign. To insult that the female body is a polygon, we respond we have 24% more children born in 2010 than in 2009, we can't do anything about it because you're unhappy, we can't. So to another insult we answer we have 35.6% more births in 2010 under the new law than in 2009. We're sorry you're not looking forward to it with us. To the third insult, to anyone, obviously, of course now I am in focus because today is the law, we respond you look forward to us, although you lied to couples, harassed couples, that we reduced the waiting list by 18 months, and that today it's almost actually gone. Mr. Stazic, I'm looking at you so Mrs. Antuvnović doesn't think I'm looking at her, whether I wasn't looking at her the last time, but over her, so she thought I'd look at her, so now I'm going to say who I'm looking at, I'm looking at you. So, you say the minister says the law isn't bad. I have to tell you one more time, eight. The Croatian Congress on Human Reproduction with Foreign Experts, who were there, say, all of these are conclusions, not the minister, but the profession, like any other, so all the very prominent foreign experts praised our results and stressed the desire for further cooperation. Even proposed for the EU think tank to freeze egg cells, and in the second year of the application of new technological specifications, we have reached the results of Italy, Switzerland, Germany, of those countries that have similar laws. So you don't say Minister that. I'm just transferring. So, I didn't say the law wasn't bad, but that's what the waist says. I'll tell you one more thing, if we have to talk like that, we need to talk in arguments. I'll take a look at Mrs. Antunovic later, and I'll tell her how I feel about this attitude of hers. I can't do it to Mrs. Anticevic because she's gone, and I'm going to answer to her, too. Our society, a professional society, is too satisfied with the achievements so far and please, me, please do not allow the drop of quality and return to chaos. That's not what the health minister says, that's not what the HDZ Representatives' Club says, that's not what the HSS Representatives' Club says, not what those who supported the law say, the profession says. As for Mrs. Anticevic, she's gone, but I know she's nervous, but she can't promise this woman what she allegedly wrote, to grant her one wish, so that this government will no longer be, not to be a government formed by the HZD, but to be the end of this government. I know she's frustrated with the fact that she's in the 9th constituency and that she can't help that woman in that sense. And here's a public call. Mrs. Anticevic, you're probably listening, if you win the 9th election unit, Minister Milinovic comes out of politics, and if HDZ wins, you come out. Here we go. Can we get a more open call?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78876	Doctor, we're going according to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78877	I have to answer, here's the answer in the end. And nine. The election unit will be one small wheel in the overall victory of Ms Jadranka Kosor and HDZ in the next parliamentary elections. Mrs. Antunovic, it's time for me to look at you, not yet. ... No, no, there's going to be a small wheel in the win total. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, Mrs. Antuvnović, look, you put a little down on your personal level, and you said I was a member of the youth. It is. Was there anyone that wasn't a member of the youth? Yeah, is there anyone who wasn't a youth member? We were all members of the youth because we had to be. But don't misinformation that I was a member of the Communist Union. You know why? '89. They told me you wouldn't get a special at the missus hospital if you didn't get into the party. I didn't want to be in '89. I went to Zagreb to work as a private and '91. got special when I came to the front line of the battlefield. And your friends say that you entered the party not for ideological reasons but for personal ambitions, because in 1980 you became head of the finance of the Meat Industry of Sljeme. In the '80s it was known that true believers were in the leading places as Mrs. Antunovic was then.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78878	Okay, we're going according to the law 'cause here we go in the '80s. And to Sljemen. I'll take the turn, first of all, of hurting the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Vidovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78879	I beg you, Mr. Vice President, is that time is pre-election. We met here because we have a duty to citizens to discuss the law that is the subject of our debate. What the HDZ does, what the 9th constituency does, it's not about the citizens or us here. I ask you, in that sense, to warn the speaker of the minister, whom we are listening to here as minister, not as HDZ's leader.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78880	Thank you, colleague Vidovic. You agree with me, I've intervened three times, making sure we get back what our Rules of Procedure tells us to do. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, fellow Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78881	Minister, it is incorrect but also illogical for you to claim the need to pass this law and amend the applicable law if the profession says that this applicable law is good because what is good should not be changed. If it's true that the waist says he's good, then you're ruining something that's good with these changes. So this claim of yours is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78882	counterpart Antunović, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78883	Well, what I've been doing in my life is written in my résumé very plainly, but if I get it right, it turns out I've been well positioned and I've done my job well because I've been close or I've been in a party. It's a completely incorrect quote. And it's exactly what I said, that the minister strongly supported the policy that we know she was, and now she's holding on to us, that is, I've realized to me moral education. However, I am very sorry that the minister in his reply did not answer why they were investigating false tenders to send a message that the birthplace would open, and in fact they have no intention at all. That was supposed to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78884	Okay. Then let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78885	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in 2009, when we passed this Law on Medical Insemination and, of course, today is really quite said, a lot has been repeated, so let me do the same. According to the definition of the World Fertility Association, sterility is reduced fertility when pregnancy does not occur within a year in a couple. Otherwise, the chance of a pregnancy per cycle is 25 to 33%, and about 10 to 15% of couples face this problem. There is a primary and secondary one, all of which is said, and there are others, but the World Health Organization has been following this problem of infertility and there has been a study of a multicentre 3500 couples, there has been data that 41% of these couples are a health problem only in women, 24% are both, 24% are men, and 11% remain unknown. But regardless of these statistics, all these people are going through really difficult temptations and emotional conditions, and here I simply believe that today they are also monitoring our exposure, and it is certainly necessary to repeat that fear and this approach of fear are not good and is not welcome. And for these reasons, in 2009, Minister Milinovic went into this law of medical insemination, after 40 years of that health measure law, etc., so that I do not repeat now. After 40 years, this law has come which very clearly regulates, so that it speaks of regulating assumptions for the exercise of the right to insemination, that is, rights and obligations, as well as the responsibility of all participants in the process of medical insemination. Of course, every law also requires an analysis of the implementation of the effect of achievements after a certain time, and here today we have had the opportunity to hear what these achievements are, so it is necessary to repeat them again this time. I think it's necessary, and the results are next. In 2010, 24% of children were born from medical insemination procedures compared to 2009. There were 35.6% more births in 2010 compared to 2009. In 2010 compared to 2009, there were 23.4% more pregnancies after the medical fertilisation procedure. A total of 1019 children were born from medical fertilisation procedures, which means 220 more. So the proportion of newborn children from the medical fertilisation process in the total number of newborn children is 2.7%, which is at European average. The European average is 2 to 4%. The waiting lists have also been reduced. The payment we also heard of medical insemination was segregated from hospital limits so HZZO pays special attention to procedures. In 2010, HZZO created 44 million kunas for medical fertilisation procedures, which is 100% more than in 2009 when 22 million kunas were spent. The Ministry of Health and Social Care has invested 3.6 million kunas for medical fertilisation equipment, and HZZO has allocated an additional 1 million kunas for the training of the profession involved in medical fertilisation. And here it is very important to mention, so often the profession is mentioned today, and even during this adoption of the law, it was said that it would listen to the opinion of the profession which, of course, came out in 2009 with that consensus that you were arguing about back then. Consensus was very important and significant authorities in this area, and the profession says, so today, the profession says that improvement is possible in this way by proposing that the provision of Article 15 of the 2009 Law should not be applied in cases where the National Commission for Medical Insemination approves it on the proposal of a physician who carries out a medical fertilisation procedure and where a man or woman is found in the knowledge or experience of medical science or during the medical fertilisation process. So I think everything is clear and I believe that this change will help those couples who face these problems and improve this area and I will personally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78886	Thank you, dear colleague. And we have one application for replica, colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Stipe, I'm glad you touched the question of the profession here. I would just add to the question of the profession that when you say waist then you don't just think about doctors. So the profession is doctors, but it's not just a doctor's profession. So the question of professions should be added when it comes to psychologists and lawyers and ethicians and if you want theologians. Therefore, it is a very complex issue of the profession. The profession should be respected but fully respected. And yet another finding when you were saying here what all the Government of the Republic of Croatia did to make more children, to have more children born. Well, I think the biggest event that happened here today in the assembly is that two things are undoubtedly recognised by the government of the Republic of Croatia by SDP. One is, therefore, that this law really means that, as a consequence of this Law, that a significant, significantly higher number of children have been born in Croatia than they have so far refused to acknowledge for life. That's one thing. And the other thing is equally important that they linked it to good policy, health policy, or reform of the health system. So that's me thinking the two most important messages that can be sent today when it comes to everything the opposition has said. So they acknowledged the success of this law and recognised the success of health reform. And that's good. Don't you agree? ... Oh, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78888	Answer to the replica of Col. Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I thank my colleague, Bagaric. Your colleague Bagarić is certainly well-attracted, so what is the importance of the profession and in this part, so all these profiles have their significance and their importance. But it's also very important to underline that this profession has already said since 2009 that the freezing of egg cells has technologically progressed. And these indicators say they're being given to us, so the confessions in that part that we can also be the reference center we heard earlier. But the reform of the health system certainly shows the results from stabilising the hospital system to activities in the field of HZZO which has reduced almost to a minimum all losses and all others. So we're talking about transplant medicine, so a fund of expensive drugs, so it's all indicators because it would take a lot more time, but I think it's certainly achievements and thanks to all of that, you can see that twice as much resources could be allocated to this important issue here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78890	Thank you very much. It's time for the distinguished colleague Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. So here's what I've actually come up with, and I support the adoption of this Law because it allows for conception in accordance with medical achievements, and with special regard to the health of the woman and her offspring. We have heard all the complications that can occur during this fertilization, and also complications that can arise for the child. In any case, this Law allows couples who have found lack of sex cells to fertilise more than three egg cells in women who have few egg cells, severely infertile men, cancer patients and cancer patients. Behind these decisions in an ethical and professional way, I will once again point to the position of the waist. Therefore, doctors, gynecologists involved in human reproduction, or the National Commission for Medical Fertilisation, who, on the proposal of a physician, is a gynecologist, performs a medical fertilisation procedure and determines the lack of sexual cells. And this law that we've had so far has also shown that what we're doing has shown certain results of 24% more children, of 35.65 more births, of 23.4% more pregnancy, and from everything we've been doing so far we're not behind the European countries. What's really to praise is that women no longer have to wait 12 to 18 months for the payment to be removed beyond the limit of the hospital itself. So, in some ways, the ease of procedure, and in the very system, it's very important that 44 million kunas have entered. So 100% more in 2010 than in 2009. And what is to praise is the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which has singled out an additional 1 million kuna for the education of the profession that deals with medical fertilization. We didn't talk about infertility here about the causes of infertility. However, it should be noted that infertility is also one of the public health problems. Of couples, the number of infertile couples is 12 to 15%. One important factor is sexually transmitted diseases, not to mention endometriosis and professional terminology of the cause of infertility. But in any case, we're going to have to work harder to prevent infertility from occurring where it can be done. Indeed, I admire women who enter and their friends, men, or spouses who enter this kind of fertilization process that we have said is really stressful, a heavy psychological burden, methods or diagnostic procedures that are carried out on these people are not simple. They're often aggressive. It enters the hormonal cycle, and so here's my support once again that even when such couples fail to get into the adoption process. In another way, it is up to us to adopt the child and make it easier, for as we know, children are in their homes and in three months it is enough for one parent to call the child once and ask if he is at all at home without any care. So this law also showed how much we take care of our family, our mother, and our child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78892	Thank you very much, colleague. And now they're going in a row of applications, two replicas. Dear colleague of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78893	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's my colleague Caparin, of course I'll support your exposure, but here's what I'm listening to and you're talking about what you need to talk about, which is that you need to listen to the word of the profession. So you see colleagues today all morning, we listen to this left-hand side, namely SDP, they can't understand it and understand it, you know the profession, their profession is communist demagogy, and of course that profession we've all met, and their expertise on how they're doing their profession. So we see expertise, for example. in the city of Zagreb, as the Prime Minister told them nicely, you can't agree on colleagues from Caparin in Zagreb at all how children will go to kindergartens, how much those kindergartens will cost. Their profession and their communist demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78894	Hey, buddy, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78895	When they are found somewhere, so they are slowly friendlyly agreed to ensure that they are also visible in their activities from 2000 to 2003. Now they're going to say we're going back in time. Yes, we are going back in time, and you know for a fact that what they did with maternity benefits, in which they humiliated the birth, mother and children, are now doing so in the city of Zagreb, but this government has returned birth benefits, this government not only has provided birth benefits to women employed for six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78896	Comrade twilight, according to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78897	In full, but also women who don't work for both housewives and women in the country, so here's the thing about family care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78898	So time's up. And colleague Caparin came forward for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am from Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County, when I look at the city of Zagreb and all of us from Bjelovar, then we admire the budget of the city of Zagreb, and on the other hand, when you look at the family and the parents who are looking for a place in kindergarten, then I can't find it, because these kindergartens are not... We have this money in Bjelovar we would have built at least so many kindergartens that every child would be in kindergarten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the payment, I can tell you from my own experience my brother one day got for a baby 200 kuna in one month, and the second month he got 400 kuna and now he wonders what's gonna happen next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78900	Replica, colleague Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78901	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78902	Please join your colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78903	So I'm saying that it seems to me that one thing, one very important thing we've missed to say, and I haven't heard anyone look back at it, except you now that you've said infertility is a major public health problem. However, I think it is very important to stress that this public health problem, namely the prevention of this public health problem, is very often from the part-round of its own responsibility and its own behaviour. So it certainly includes responsible sexual behavior and responsibility of parenting in a way that this parenting is accomplished at an optimal time, so it is not the same whether people marry with an unknown age of 25, 30, or 45. Therefore, the issue of infertility is a major public health problem in Croatia, but very often out of reach I do not know in this case the Ministry of Health, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what anyone said about it and the matter is personal responsibilities, a personal relationship with these important things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78904	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that no one talked about prevention and cases, the causes of infertility that we're talking about today. It is very important to warn young people about sexual behavior, abortions, etc. You have no example when a young girl made an abortion and that she remained infertile, that she could never give birth again, because she picked up any inflammations. We must warn our young people that changing partners leads to infection of human papilloma viruses, to inflammation, to a change in therefore the very vagina that needs to be received and fertilized. So these are the things to discuss, because when you talk about prevention and you do a lot of things in prevention, then we're going to have a little less discussion about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78906	Thank you. And the line came from a distinguished colleague, Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I fully support your debate, but I think there's something else that needs to be noted here today. We heard, Mr. Minister, on several occasions and colleagues who debated here today said how many children were born more since the Law on Medical Insemination was passed in 2009. With regard to the freezing of the mattresses, my colleague Bagarić spoke in detail in his debate, I want to point out once again to God that in 2009, we have passed a law that will not allow us to have another 10 and a half thousand of the traps with which we do not know where and what would, and in order not to do so, I remember very well the SDP proposal of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination in which the proposal was to keep the traps for 5 years, if not used in those 5 years, to keep them for another 5 years, if and then not used to allow them to die. It was actually something terrible, but then they admitted that the embryo was a living thing. Today, a colleague, Bagarić, mentioned very well what is not possible for a man, and not everything, of course, is possible for God. Well, I think we should all, especially our colleagues from the SDP, think about it a little bit over that sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78908	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78909	Thank you very much. So here's this 2009 law, and this law of ours has just put order into this problem. They had time and opportunity to pass that law, and now that they're discussing it, they say we should have united the debate between their law and our law. In Parliament's history, I've never heard of their governments uniting the debate with, say, one law from HDZ. For me, the same embryo is a living thing, and it's inadmissible to have 10 500 living beings frozen that we don't know what we're going to do. Because they are living beings and it is a great success that this number does not increase and that there are other possibilities for solving infertility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78910	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. We have one application for the final word on behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic. He's gone. Then they won't even argue. In conclusion, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78911	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for today's debate, and I'm glad that, at least on this right, there was no insult at personal level. Once again, for the sake of the Croatian public, for all those who are also closely interested in this law, if we look at 2009 and 2010, and in 2008 and 2010, there is an even greater difference that we have 24% more children, that we have 35.6% more births, that we have 23.4% more pregnancy, that we will not get tired to invest further in the health system and also in this segment, that this law, ladies and gentlemen, is very important once more to note, has not led to this greater migration of patients outside Croatia, that about 2.4% or 2.6% of patients from abroad are being treated in the Republic, that therefore we have offers to become also a reference centre and that we have equated ourselves to the results of both Germany and France and Switzerland and Belgium and Italy, and Italy are being true when we say that we were once leading in Europe, remember. And two years ago when we passed this law we said many will come back to Croatia to learn about the law and honor the results we have achieved here. So, thanks for the debate. We will continue to follow very closely and closely what happens to this law, follow what the profession says, and on the basis of personal insults, here I call everyone, and there will be no reaction to this talker in my ministry and again I will talk about the Law on Medical Insemination tomorrow, and then again for the next year I will not talk about the Law on Medical Insemination or the next year when we get new results we can reopen the debate which adopted the new Law on Medical Insemination. We have been going with this law now and it will not be the subject of a pre-election race in the next parliamentary elections simply because couples who need it extremely are not allowed or are not allowed to do it for them. We will follow the development of the profession, we will follow, that is, the profession will follow the implementation of this law, and I am convinced that if we had 1019 children more last year, so for the first time in history over 1000 we had 2.7% of the total number of children born. We will follow that, and I am convinced that in 2011, the results for 2011 will be better than for 2012. Thank you very much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78912	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78913	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Medical Insemination, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No.873. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 75 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78914	And now we move to the third item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 877 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When deciding on the agenda, we have followed the proposal from the applicant to conduct the debate in an urgent procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, as we know, it combines the first and second reading, and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate on this law has been conducted so far by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Reports from the board's session have been received. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. As a representative of the promoters here is Secretary of State, the esteemed Josip Kraljičković. Does he want to take his word on behalf of the promoter? Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78915	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. I have the pleasure and honour to briefly explain on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. The law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants entered into force in 2009 and its full application was established in 2010. The reason for the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of this Act is primarily related to the operational experience that occurred during the period of application. The disadvantages that make the concept of the warehouse more acceptable to all participants are significant since during 2010 only 7 authorised warehouses with an authorised capacity of 68 thousand tonnes are included in the system, we have 9 today, and they also have only 74 thousand tonnes of authorised capacities. Although in Croatia we have enough, over 2 million 600 thousand tonnes of storage capacity for cereals and olives, and the authorised warehouses were issued only 25 warehouses during 2010, the total minimum value is 2.5 million kuna. While only one business bank has been included in the stock lending system of the warehouse which has granted a deposit facility credit for certain legal persons. The reserve lending system can and must benefit the most from producers who, on the basis of such a stock, address the issue of collateral through the loans necessary for the financing of production, primarily for crafts, and in such a way that, through financial lending, they provide themselves with craftable assets, i.e. to be able to choose their own moment of sale of their products. This means that the functioning of this system is important because it quality enables the creation of a particular market, i.e. enables the creation of a competitive system that gives banks security to allow manufacturers to access the necessary crafts, thus giving both parties the incentive to engage in this system. So, by implementing the law so far, we have seen these shortcomings, and that is why these proposals are proposed, and I suggest that they be accepted. This means that by adopting and modifying and supplementing this law, we will first strengthen the role of creditors in lending on the basis of deposits on... which becomes securities and serves as a guarantee for the achievement of loans and loans. Second, facilitate and speed up the sale of warehouses and the sale of goods held by the warehouse. Third, to establish the role of the authorised trader of the new component within this concept essential for the execution of sales in the case where the believer is unable to collect his claim in cash. Fourthly, ensure that the way in which the stock is sold takes place is to advertise public sales at the public announced initial price. And fifthly, to resolve the proceedings in the case of an appeal for a decision to confiscate the authorisation and in a way that these administrative matters are subject to procedures in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. And finally... Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Government, I declare that we accept the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78916	So the amendment committees are being accepted. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. First club HNS HSU and distinguished colleague Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78917	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have been discussing the warehouse as a valuable document three times today in the Croatian Parliament. The story has been going on for three years, the first idea was 2008. When we received the proposal from the HDZ Club and the HSS, and by emergency procedure, and the government turned it into a regular procedure of the draft law on grains and industrial plants, the first reading ended, however, the final proposal was never received again into the Assembly benches, so the story started in 2008. Years. 2009 24. Six. Following an emergency procedure, the Government's Proposal adopted the Law on the Storage and Harmony of Cereals and Industrial Plants and the implementing rules necessary for the implementation and operation of this proposal for the Law adopted in 2009. They were brought in 2010. Years. In other words, to date, what are the effects of this current legislative proposal, there is no need to stress because they are none. Almost nothing in view of those potentials that were defined in the reasoning of the Bills and of the HDZ and HSS Clubs 2008. The year and year of the 2009 Government proposal The year we all supported in the House. The very purpose of the warehouse is that farmers can store their goods in licensed warehouses, but what is crucial and important to obtain a document with which they can provide the necessary means of crafts, whether to prepare a new season and a very good idea, extremely necessary, back three years did not work, and in other words everything that has been done today has been done at the level of the letter intention or better said people have this document, you have this possibility, however, in implementation you have nothing. The reason for this latest version is very simple. The agreement between the ministry and banks where banks have said very clearly, which conditions must be met by the Law or which all conditions must be prescribed or which conditions must be met and in order for banks to be willing to enter into the lending of agricultural production based on the warehouse. And now the question of us at the HNSU Club why he didn't sit down with the banks in 2008, why he didn't sit down with the banks in 2009. Why didn't he sit with the banks in 2010. It only took place in 2011. Years. We at the HNSU Club think and claim that it is irresponsible to agricultural producers, to promise, to give an opportunity that they cannot use because they could use it. If the law could be consummated, we wouldn't be having these changes today, but for one good idea, we've been discussing the necessary idea for three years. We consider this irresponsible to agricultural producers and one of the very irresponsible moves of the ministry towards agricultural producers. Especially at the moment when agricultural producers cannot collect and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has promised them has taken the obligation. I'm sure at this point this document, if it were operational, would be useful for these people. Secondly, when our farmers will be able to use the warehouse as a security document, only next year. WE now pass the law in October, by the end of the month it will be published in the National Journal. In Article 19, paragraph 2 is It is prescribed that the ministry of implementing rules will bring in 90 days, meaning November, December, January, other words will be able to use it only in February. For the season of this year's season, let's forget and need to make it clear and loud to people that the warehouse as a document except in those banks that have recognised it, which is a negligible amount and a negligible amount based on the old law simply won't be able to use, it should be clearly and loudly said to people, for the season or for agricultural production in 2011. This law will have no effect, it will have a production point in 2012. And that's good, better ever than never. My question to the Committee on Agriculture when we discussed this bill was, namely, we have an indication of how many licensed warehouses we have, which is good in any case, not to repeat the story of Đakovština, that something that happened in Đakov was fatal to all those agricultural producers who simply trusted the system without their profits and assets, which is territorial coverage with authorized warehouses. Because if we're putting someone in a situation that 100, 150, 200 km has to drive its own grain to take advantage of that possibility, then we haven't done anything to those people. Whose obligation is that? It is the ministry's obligation to take care of the territorial spread of authorized warehouses. I hope I didn't get that answer, but I hope the Ministry's taking care of it. And in the end, this whole stream, and not only that by operating on an opportunity called the warehouse, but by the overall relationship to agricultural production and agricultural producers, which should not be specifically argued or proved, is evident and visible, I would compare it with one Churchill definition, even if it is inappropriate to mention Churchill when we talk about the efficiency of our agricultural policy, which says, by definition of courage, which says, "The courage is to collapse from failure in failure without losing enthusiasm." The warehouse is an example of falling from failure to failure without losing enthusiasm. The HNS-HSU club will not be against this bill, but more because it first corrects something that has so far been at the level of the letter of intent, the current Storage Act, and secondly, the possibility that agricultural producers will be able to use this document to save their agricultural economies and situations in which they are brought not by their own fault next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78918	Thank you. Here's how we heard it, Churchill, so we'll pick it up at 3:00. It's the SDSS club and the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat, and until then the break. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. It's the SDSS club, and dear colleague Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78920	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Honorable Secretary. The proposal for amendments, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage, Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants is, in any case, one law that is interesting for analysis because it deals with issues that are very important and very attractive for the Croatian economy, i.e. for Croatian agriculture. As a storage facility that we discussed in 2009, we expected as representatives of the SDSS club to be a lot of expectations, so, first of all, for this period of two years, this instrument to function, we expected it to be a real, safe means for agricultural products producers, who can count on it to have equivalent values for its produced goods, that it would be able to use it, this warehouse, and in legal traffic, that it would be able to use it in its performance in front of banks, that it would be able to provide the minimum, guarantees that their goods would be bought and paid, and that it would ultimately be the means to guarantee that they would receive some initial funds for the new production. We accepted such a concept of the law in 2009, then in these discussions when we also supported this concept in the idea we said yes, and we warned that the text that was at the time at the debate was quite contentless, so it was too simple for such a, such a complex instrument, that it was not a quality defined bank relationship to the warehouse project itself, it would later prove to be a proper, correct assessment, i.e. that the warehouse was issued only for a limited quantity of goods, and we thought that the warehouse could be extended for some other types of goods that could be stored qualityly over a long period. What is the result of this law that we are trying to amend today is clear on the ground, it is clear from the very report of the proposings where it is seen that the warehouse, that only 25 warehouses have been issued, which of course tells us and gives us the right to conclude that this instrumentation in the agricultural production sector did not revive as it was imagined. It is evident that only one bank and this is the Croatian Post Bank, so the state bank accepted the operating warehouse as a means for some kind of financial communication. So the conclusion is that our peasant, to simplify things, doesn't believe in such an instrument, so he doesn't believe in the warehouse, and the conclusion is that yet, this thing that can be fixed, but the thing that's even worse is that they're private, the fact that private banks don't want to create an additional job and their commitment by doing business with the warehouse, because in any case, it doesn't make them an attractive profit, it doesn't make them a fast profit, etc. In general, therefore, the banks are no longer interested in the monitoring of agricultural production. That's what the field experience tells us. So the relations of these, the relations of peasants to this instrument, and the relations of banks, not only of the state but of all commercial banks to this instrument are things that are not well done, that is, the negative effect of that law and that thing is not well done. These amendments, which are here before us in Articles 11 and 12, I think that it has tried to change the legal character of that warehouse instrument itself, so from now on they will be securities, by theory itself, should be a greater legal force as a valuable instrument, so they should be, they should be a safer market instrument for communication with banks by interested agricultural producers. Their legal traffic would be quite simple by indosing, which we also think is good, and if these changes are contained here, then we support such changes. But Article 7 leaves one dilemma, so if the warehouse is to be taken away from its right to work, how can it allow it to continue to work until the stock runs out, which may take a season, two, so that some kind of interregnum in this whole thing is not quite clear to us. For us, it's also a big question, I initially said, why a warehouse just for cereal. Why not extend it to some other products, why not spread it to fruits, to vegetables, because it can be quality preserved, processed, and kept for almost 12 months in storage and with them, with these products to work. I will only tell you the situation in particular with me in Baranja, where there are many plums, apples, apricots, nectarines, I think we are one of the most squishy conditionalities in the Republic of Croatia, which happened this autumn that the mass of these things remained unaccounted for, that it was not bought, because if the price of plump kuna and a half, and the price of the wheat kuna 36, and the same plum on the second day at sea cost 35 kunakg, then a logical question of the economic viability of the whole work that we are doing was clearly questioned and the whole meaning of that project that we were doing when we financed from the state budget was a major means to raise permanent losses. We didn't finish the job, we didn't create the ransom centers, we didn't form some stock exchange, we didn't build a freezer on the ground. So this man is left behind, trust me, he's left to the buyers, and a very big disappointment of fruitcakes with this fall in the area where I come from. It's clear to all of us that I don't have to say it specifically in order for the matter to be much simpler, much easier if that import component itself was otherwise solved. As long as we subsidize imports and stimulate imports of these same products, we cannot realistically expect the domestic product to be interesting for our large buyers. And that's how it's gonna be, and I believe it's going to put the agricultural production itself pretty much at risk. So let's get rid of the subsidies by import lobbys and we'll get about one more normal level of these things on the market, especially fruit and vegetables. So this is the concept of change we accept because we care very much that the warehouse becomes a quality paper that the farmer will be able to appear on the market today, with which he will be able to trade, with which he will be able to go to the bank and with which he will be able to make some kind of profit. In this context, I'm going to say a few more things that aren't good because we're bringing it in, it's getting the impression that we often bring legal texts, we get the laws in agriculture, and we don't respect the ambience in which it happens, we don't even respect any events or experiences in real life. The programme, i.e. the Law on the Prohibition of Unregistered Activities – we had a very interesting debate here a while ago. We warned the so-called. "Neighbouring aid" where someone is forbidden to come and help harvest grapes, harvest corn, etc. That we used to call the country a plea, that it would be a problem. We're sure it won't come to that, I'm telling you that's not the case. Now there was a phenomenon in Baranja that the inspectors with a police escort went to the vineyards and, of course, everything according to the law, but not in accordance with the needs of the moment and time, were reviewing the work permits of people, peasants, reviewing the work permits of these peers, writing applications, stopping harvesting, etc., etc. Do we expect someone who reads 120 kunas and reads today at my place for two days that he'll be off the grid? So, that he's going to apply to the Bureau, take away his social life to make 220 kunas in my place? That he's going to go into health care, that he's going to get, that he's going to go through all that procedure that's needed to get a man to sign up and get permission to work for someone 5, 6 or 10 days a year? So that's something that, the gray economy can't be contained in this way and this is the wrong medium to contain the gray economy. People are picking corn now, corn has to come back, we can't read it when it's not time. And let us not prevent such activities and such regulations, such constraints of things that are not logical. Sometimes schools stopped working, kids went, school kids went to the vineyards and grapes season to get off as soon as possible, classes were interrupted because of that. And today we're driving 20 people out of it and we're pushing them into some kind of financial discipline. Another thing that I don't understand, and I have to say, I don't understand how someone can raise plantations on a foreign country and gain and encourage and later capital investment. That's the thing we keep talking about, but that thing is still going through that dog system barking, the caravans are passing. We're talking in the field. Nothing's happening. The third thing I would say here, which I think is in that kind of regulatory section of the gap, is a programme of agricultural land availability. It's a thing that passes us by this very undetected, but it's a fundamental thing in a project of availability, that is, in a project of strengthening agriculture. And the main thing is the rural development program. So the village, especially special state care, has no other way to live. These people have the only source of existence processing that country. And we get into a situation where in one municipality of Trpinj where you have five large villages, where only 90% are all peasants, 2006. The Council decides to divide the total fund of 3,300 hectares fairly – half of the concessionary "Vupik" and half of the village's lease with the intention of buying it out later. So, 5 villages, it's a large number of peasants, to find out about that newspaper three days ago that the concessionaire, so "Vupik", some of its mechanisms bordering legal mechanisms, so by offering a job to some councilman, a councilman, a child of councilman, is offering a job, a councilman offering a job, offering some trailers and a few other things to create a critical mass in the City Council of Trpinj, the council changes its decision, goes to a new programme of availability, it intends to take the village out of the 1,300 acres of another 600 acres and give it to "Vupik". So it's probably their legal right, they're acting according to the law. Is that in line with what we wanted, was that the legislator's intensity when he brought the land availability programme, is that the way to keep that village, to revitalize that village? And is the way in which such means bordering even with the need to intervene USKOK affect the decision of the Municipal Council to make such key things that are long-term reflective of the survival of those 4.5 villages. A similar situation a few years ago was also in Jagodnjak municipality with similar manifesto, with similar semi-legal shops, the village was left without the largest share of its atocrats, peasants lost their pastures and how a farmer who can't get a certain hectare fund can then compete with European livestock funds, for raising farms etc., etc. So these are things that aren't directly related to this subject, but I needed to tell you what the situation is in that part of agriculture where I come from today. And that's not good, we have to put these things under control if we want to get a healthy, productive village and if we want to keep them young, healthy and productive people in that village. Or we can make up our mind and let's give it all to the concessionaries, and then let's make the concessionist a great adjective, and let's drive around the big corners, and then let these guys figure out how they're doing. Therefore, it is something that is not good and that leads to unnecessary doubt on the very idea of a agricultural land supply project. For the time being, all in all, these amendments to the Storage Act are for us in this way in the text as you have suggested acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78921	Thank you very much, counsel. It is up to the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78922	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, so today we are discussing a proposal to amend and supplement the law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants, therefore, the amendments and additions made by this high house 24. June 2009. For years, and which should have contributed to strengthening the competitiveness and better market position of Croatian farmers with the rest of the legal infrastructure related to the agricultural sector. That's why the matter in question only partially succeeded, but I'll tell you more about it later. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to remind you that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community is 2009. For years absolutely and unreservedly supported the introduction of a warehouse system into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia for two basic reasons. First, for the purpose of introducing a warehouse system, I wanted to achieve something that I had already said before, and the second reason is that the idea of introducing and applying a storage system as a ownership and guarantee document, therefore, would be based on a speciality of the law almost 10 years old, and what has already been a series of attempts to introduce this law simply into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, however, all these attempts are until 2009. The years have been a failure. Of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will also support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants from which we expect, given the content of the proposed amendments and additions, to contribute significantly to the transparency of the entire system and to a better and more efficient protection of all participants in the implementation of this system. It should also be mentioned how, in the meantime, after the entry into force of the law on storage and storage facilities for cereals or industrial plants, or if we want to be more precise in April or June 2010. In the years adopted and necessary implementing regulations on the manner and conditions of the authorisation of warehouses and the issue of a warehouse for cereals and industrial plants, as well as the Regulation establishing a security fund for cereals and industrial plants, which fully establishes a legal framework for the functioning of so-called "the Republic of Croatia". Storage system. Allow me now before I say specifically about the changes and additions in question to refer briefly to the storage system in the Republic of Croatia that actually works in accordance with the applicable Storage Act. It is important to say first of all that the establishment of this system came about because the primary agricultural production primarily represents a very important segment of the total agricultural production and, despite the fact that significant financial resources are allocated for its needs through market price policy programmes which are of course the fundamental objective of raising the competitiveness and profitability of the entire agrarian, however, there is a chronic lack of crafts to finance its production. If we add to such a situation the circumstances in which the financial institutions therefore come from the absence of quality and acceptable mechanisms for the collection of their claims did not show sufficient interest in the financing of primary agricultural production, we find that our farmers were often forced to place their products on the market at a time when conditions for them were most unfavourable, which of course had a negative impact on their overall income. Therefore, the logical consequence of this market situation and the lack of a storage system which could and could then be used in the Republic of Croatia under the mandatory relationship law was the establishment of a completely new system which aims to create a partnership on the market of certain agricultural products, i.e. to establish a stronger market connection between natural business partners, between agricultural producers, processors and traders, and financial institutions. Simply put, the adoption of the law on the storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants was a fundamental objective, i.e. it went towards establishing strong links between all actors of this system. The applicable law also defines all components without which the intended storage system could not function successfully and qualityly, such as the warehouse, the authorised warehouse, the security fund and the register of authorised warehouses. Just a few short sentences about each of these components just to remind ourselves of what they are characterized by and what they serve. Therefore, the cereals and industrial plants warehouse is a guarantee document consisting of one part of which is issued by the authorised warehouse and which proves that the deposit in cereals or industrial plants is owned or existed. It is also important to say that it is a portable document and for this reason can be subject to trade and can be used as a stock to implement the short-term lending mechanism using goods as collateral. Authorised warehouses shall be legal and natural persons from the territory of the Republic of Croatia engaged in the activities of the storage, processing and storage of cereals and industrial plants and their products in order to obtain the status of the authorised warehouse, and the possibility of issuing the warehouse shall pass the procedure licensed, showing them their good business reputation, stable financial operations and appropriate technical standards for carrying out that job. This fact will be very important for our warehouses once we become a full member of the European Union and when we join the European Union. Furthermore, the Government Regulation of June 2010. For years, a security fund representing the amount of funds to settle the legal claims of the owners of cereals or industrial plants or warehouse owners has been established in the event of the failure of authorised warehouses. The initial funds for the establishment of the security fund are secured from the state budget of 15 million kuna and the other funds for its operation are made out of the annual payments of authorised warehouses and from the funds made by deposit or by the payment of the bank guarantee deposited in favour of the security fund. The security fund is certainly an extremely important component of the successful and secure functioning of the entire system, thereby contributing to the interest of inclusion in the system and financial institutions and their recognition of the warehouses as a quality guarantee document. It should, of course, also be mentioned that according to the provisions of the applicable law, a register of authorised warehouses is established at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and available to the public on the Ministry’s website. So, respecting one side of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have respectable storage facilities that move at the level of demand. I'll just mention the fact that we have 76 warehouses of an individual capacity of 10,000 tonnes with a total storage capacity of a million 850 thousand tonnes. On the other hand, the data that says that in just over a year of application of the warehouse system is licensed only a dozen warehouses with an authorised capacity of slightly greater than 74 thousand tonnes, and that only 25 warehouses have been issued, of which only some have been used as collateral. Here's a colleague mentioned before me that the collateral was used in only one bank or Croatian postal bank. We at the Representatives' Club, when we consider this information, cannot be satisfied with the level of functioning of this system. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also proposed its dissatisfaction with the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, which seeks to remove all observed shortcomings in the current concept that make it difficult to use the warehouse more massively as a quality instrument for the return of credits for crafts that today are chronically missing from our farmers, which I have mentioned earlier. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the law seek to establish a positive business atmosphere filled with mutual respect and business confidence in which financial institutions will also show a significantly greater interest in participating in the concept and finally accept the warehouse as a valid and quality guarantee by collecting their claims. In this context, in order to simplify the implementation of the law itself, the proposed amendments and additions ensure greater transparency of the entire system, and to ensure that all participants are able to quickly and transparently cash in goods or stocks, given that the warehouse becomes a valuable paper consisting of two fields, i.e. receipts and publishers which can be traded uninterrupted and which thus constitute a quality collateral to financial institutions. In addition, the system introduces the concept of an authorised trader who is in fact an authorised warehouse registered to carry out trade activities that enables him to sell cereals and industrial plants as well as trade in warehouses. This changes significantly so far the practice and role of creditors because the authorised trader, at the invitation of the believer, will be obliged to sell goods or securities and to settle them, of course in those cases where the believer is unable to make or collect his claims from his debtor himself. It shall also be transparently regulated to determine the value of the goods in the case of its out-of-court sale at the request of the credentials using weekly price developments data from individual markets. It should be added that the authorised trader is obliged to publicly publish the intention of selling the stock. Finally, the handling of complaints is in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Finally, given that one quality debate has been held on the issue of these amendments and additions to the law and on the parent board, where we unanimously accepted the proposed amendments and additions, of course in this context the HDZ Representatives' Club will fully support the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78923	Thanks, buddy. It is up to the SDP club and fellow representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78924	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, which we have today on the agenda, which was adopted in similar conditions on 24 June 2009. We accepted in the SDP because surely one of the main reasons is that we felt that there was a need to regulate the storage relations of both grains and industrial plants and their turnover, regardless of what the relationship had already been and was determined by the Law on Mandatory Relations where both the legally defined and defined warehouse as a financial document. However, with the observations we had at the time that under these conditions, such storage and such storage facilities would be difficult to live for, and at the time, we pointed out that there would be greater problems about it, and yet the law was supported and voted for and we will also vote for these amendments. For what? In order to make it possible, as soon as possible, to enable what is most important in this case for agriculture to be a major inflow of trade capital in this agricultural production. It is precisely after the war to distribute the primary emissions of primary emissions of the National Bank derived from agriculture and food industry and trade that is one large amount of money, and that is why the difficulties associated with these years surrounding the purchase of trade in these agricultural products are constantly emerging because no new model has been found. That's why we have every harvest, harvest and dissatisfaction for farmers whether through protests or even roadblocks. However, the result is permanent indifference in this branch of the economy. That is why we believe that the adoption of this law in 2009 was due to improve the situation. Unfortunately, however, it is evident from what the ministry wrote that much has not been fixed. Only 25 warehouses have been issued. This surely confirms that this Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants has not been revived for two years after its adoption. For what? It is primarily because commercial banks are reluctant to lend agriculture on the basis of stocks of stored goods in public warehouses. The problem is also here already said that in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the large capacities in the Republic of Croatia that we have just revived only 9 licensed warehouses. Osijek-Baranja County, which has a production of nearly 250 thousand tonnes this year, has three warehouses in that county, other warehouses are these six outside Osijek-Baranja County, however, both show that the capacities of these warehouses are small, we said about 75 thousand tonnes. Therefore, first and foremost it should be that we have warehouses licensed, sufficient number of licensed warehouses so that they can be stored in a better quality way through that warehouse and trade with that goods. It is therefore good for these amendments to be made as soon as possible, to allow these amendments to enable the believer and the authorised warehouse to find their place specifically in the implementation of this law, and in particular to make significant changes to the manner in which the warehouse is treated with stored goods in cases after the storage has been cancelled, i.e. in the event of withdrawal of the authorisation under the General Administrative Procedure Act. However, we still have today's example of "Djakovština" where people who have handed over their goods, who have been stored missing, know that, why and all the rest and one crash of such an institution as the "Djakovština" silos today, these silos in Djakova appear as warehouses, are now owned by "Zita d.o.o.". Therefore, I think that with better quality supervision of such warehouses, there is certainly a greater possibility that they do the part for which they are established. Otherwise, cases of wheat and affair theft were and too many have been paid by this farm and too many have been farmers, damaged about it. So I think that part needs a good way to regulate this. I think the central question, however, is how to implement this law is to increase liquidity in agriculture by using this agricultural product as a guarantee so that the manufacturer achieves at the most favourable moment of sale and the most qualitative price. These details of the transfer of ownership over goods need to be simplified and it will be significant to increase liquidity in the first place that banks will accept the warehouse and service the manufacturer and their lending. I think this deal that's here is about this material of the ministry and the banks that require this urgency, it must be one of the most important parts. In previous discussions, we raised the most of the questions about how and how the banks will react. Unfortunately, here we see and from these exposés that the banks were very weak involved in this. If after these changes, their inclusion will be better, the more quality we are left to see again, and after a certain time we give the grade. At the same time, I think the manufacturer must also be aware that the price of the product can eat the price of storage, means interest on loans, fluctuations in the price of cereals or industrial products on the Croatian market, the market in the environment. So that's one part that the manufacturer should think about. That's what the manufacturer's assessment and assessment is about when it's the most favourable moment of sale. What's his biggest risk? All of this with the warehouse should be tied to the formation of the stock exchange. I think there's a solution where the transfer of ownership of goods is made simplest. At the end of one word, this law does not solve all the problems of our agriculture, but it should be a step that this agriculture expects, and I say once again, the SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78925	Thank you very much. We've got an update on the quote. Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bodakosh, in his presentation with which I agree most of the time, you said that the wheat from Djakovština had disappeared, you literally said we know how. I don't know how, here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that you know how, I believe you don't know how either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78927	If a man knows anything, then I guess he knows, and now you're correcting that he doesn't know, but okay. It is up to the HDSSB club and distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. [[Invadica Grubišić: Let Mr Bodakoš tell us.]] We figured out what Bodakosh wanted him to say so we wouldn't have to send him to DORH tomorrow or Djakovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78928	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here after a long time, here in 2001 is the warehouse and storage of cereals and industrial plants here spoken in this House of Highs, and we finally came up with a final bill of law and an attempt to do as my colleague Bodakosh said to quote it, a step in that direction. I don't know what was waiting so long for this because two years ago we were about to discuss the warehouse the last time we had a quality discussion about it and from the HSS club, there was no colleague Petir who was then speaking about it, a colleague of Bodakos is there, and from other club representatives. Is it just that, given the unresolved issues of storage and relations between the creditors and others, 27 thousand tonnes or 2700 wheat wagons from Djakovština, we now have this problem that we have. We don't have it, but the people who were there working and who lived on the street every day on a small TV screen see what's going on in Djakov and what's going on in all of Slavonia. It's long since the HDSSB club and long since it's been touched by calls from Slavonia for the establishment of a stock exchange, for the establishment of a Croatian agrobank, for the adoption of a final law on warehouses so that as one whole of these three, the stock exchange, the agrobank that would then offer certain security in this financial sense, assistance, assistance, support and clear and with certain financial results that each bank has as a bank. But recognising the specificity of primary production operations, etc. The peasants or as they call it now, the OPGs are no longer peasants, but the OPGs are now mentioned in our laws by these new oatmeals and new names. So, to finally establish that then the primary production of cereals and industrial plants comes and the peasant comes into a situation so that he can sell them, so that he can offer them to the market at the most favourable moment when he assesses it. It's clear and at its own risk of assessing that moment. It is more than clear that both the price of corn and the price of wheat was some kuna and 20, 30, that after that, and we know because of the fires in the steppes of Ukraine, there has been a huge collection of cereals in Russia and that they are on the world market for less than six months from so on. surrenders of cereals achieved a double price. Who earned it, who lost it? Well, you know. I think as my colleague Bodakosh said, we know how. Now we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants with the final proposal of the law that is being passed in the position of our peasant, as someone told the primary producer to use this warehouse that has two or three parts, which is a storage facility for cereals and industrial plants. Then the hostage and the data on the change in the owner of the warehouse. I would say these are three parts of one and the same sheet of paper in A4 format which then becomes both a guarantee and becomes valuable paper and portable or portable document. So it can be transferred from a believer to a believer or back to a bank. We hope that the interest of the banks will also be sufficient, given that this security fund, which exists and which is approved by and in the budget of the Republic of Croatia of 15 million kuna, will be sufficient to guarantee that with these papers, to say the paper called the securities, or the warehouse, the hostages, however you will, can and can trade and may be a farmer with that money, then arrange a future seed and all that he needs for production in the OPG. So far, as someone said, there are nine warehouses licensed and authorized. Someone said here, Mr. Filipovic, there's 10 of them. Now I don't know exactly what 9 or 10 is, but it doesn't matter. But so far, only 25 warehouses have been issued according to the data and official data, and only one has found a place in Croatia's postal bank for payment and transfer. That's really sad. We at the HDSSB think that just now Slavonia, the cereal, used to be said that Slavonia and Vojvodina can feed half of Europe, unfortunately Europe feeds us and I would say it literally with the garbage we meet. I bought bread in Kaufland yesterday. It says GMBH Austria, the importer of Chakovec. The bread in Slavonski Brod in a department store imported from Austria. In the middle of Slavonia, I bought Austrian bread in the middle of Slavonia. I didn't even know until I got home that the bread was from Austria. It's sad, it's really sad. Now, what we have planned and what we think for both the future and our Slavonia, which is truly unequal and in an uneven development with other parts of Croatia. The prime minister said she spent 4 and a half billion in Rijeka precisely on the current morning of 4 and a half billion on the issue of Nevenka Majdenic. And if we were to sum up what she invested in Osijek-Baranja County, that would be 300, 400 million kuna for these four years. So one disproportionate, total disproportionate investment in one region and another. So, along with silos, the Slavonia warehouses need big coolants. Because you can't go forward in livestock. 10 ULO, ULO coolers in Slavonia, and what kind of negotiations with the European Union on freezers that is a completely different song. This should also be done on television because you have the possibility of advertising the Agreement with the European Union of this accession, so you can tell how much Europe has approved in the negotiations of the UNO coolant for Croatia. They're just approved little coolers, not big ones. And that's why this isn't about livestock production right now. It's about cereals and industrial plants. So, you've damaged, and that's where you've damaged Slavonia. And as for this Act, he finally saw the light of day as a small step forward to help the primary producer but without the stock market, without the agrobank, the Croatian agrobank, not to recapitalize, so we give the foreigners into the hands of such a bank. There will be no progress in agricultural production of cereals and industrial plants not only in Slavonia but throughout Croatia. That's why the HDSSB club will accept just because it's a small step but not enough. It will adopt this legislative proposal amending and supplementing the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78929	Thank you very much. It's the HSS club and colleague Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78930	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the adoption and entry into force of the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants and of the Regulation establishing the Security Fund for Cereals and Industrial Plants and the adoption of certain sub-legislative regulations, the storage of cereals and industrial plants with special authorisation has been legally regulated and a register of authorised warehouses has been entered in a dozen legal entities with an authorised capacity of more than 74000 tonnes. After one year, here are the implementation of this concept of certain details that make it difficult to use more massively a storage facility for crediting crafts to farmers. This model conceptually and objectively creates a link between farmers of warehousers and financial institutions, and as such is necessary at the moment for our agricultural sector when it is experiencing significant difficulties relating to the provision of the necessary cash, in particular crafts. This means that the functioning of this system enables the creation of a regulated market environment, i.e. to enable the creation of a competitive system that gives banks security and enables manufacturers to access the necessary crafts, thus giving both parties the incentive to engage in this system. In order for the warehouse system to act as a guarantee document in the desired way, we believe that all steps should be taken to establish and affirmation to give the expected effect. We stress that the shortcomings of the laws observed in the first year of implementation of the model should be eliminated by the proposed amendments and additions and better regulated by the law. With this model in which deposit insurance is guaranteed by an authorised warehouse, so the one with the technical quality of the warehouse, but also a quality business reputation, is the call for new relations in the agricultural sector, a call for business cooperation and responsibility. The warehouse itself must enable the establishment of a positive business environment, mutual respect and business confidence, as this is the only situation that will attract and attract the bank to accept the issued warehouse as a valid guarantee that it will charge its goods in commodity lending. Legally speaking, the relations established by this overarching law in this respect have become mandatory through the law, it has become already through the Law on Mandatory Relations, but for creditors and banks it is important to include the market and creditors appear in the agros sector. Since the warehouse may be the subject of sale, since it is a securities, it becomes a quality collateral that ensures the bank quickly and transparently cashing out of the pooled asset in the insurance of the loan, through an authorised warehouse, i.e. a trader. Thus, the procedures put forward significantly alter the practice so far, and the role of the creditors in the lending procedures based on stock deposits on the warehouse, as well as the way in which the pawned goods are sold by the warehouse, raise the importance and role of the authorised trader for the execution of the sale in case the believer is unable to collect his claim in cash. The question of determining the value of the goods in the case of the sale of stocks or the demand for a cash amount to pay off the value, the use of the weekly price movement data, depending on the type of goods, according to the type of data contained in each stock exchange, shall also be defined. In relations when the authorized warehouse guarantees everything, we are asked another important question which is the interest of the warehouse to include it. The fact is that the warehouse carries the highest risk of dealing with its assets and business reputation. At this time, Croatia has storage facilities at the level of the needs, which enables it to obtain a license, i.e. the authorisation to issue a warehouse, thereby opening up a positive competition between warehouses. We have more than 76 warehouses of more than 10 thousand tonnes of individual capacity, with a total capacity ready to store more than a million and 840 thousand tonnes of grain or olives. In addition to these capacities, there are numerous holdings that have warehouses of less than 10 thousand tonnes, and of course there are storage facilities in legal persons and crafts dealing with the processing of cereals, i.e. millers. There's about 200 of them. This is also available in these entities for about a million and 100 thousand tonnes of adequate storage capacity for cereals and olives. In accordance with the Regulation on the Security Fund for Cereals and Industrial Plants for 2010 and 2011, funds for over 820 thousand kuna have been paid into the fund, based on the mandatory membership of warehouses, i.e. for authorisations. This proposal will create a position for warehouses to compete more seriously and competitively with the price of storage for goods, i.e. to be included in the warehouse system in order to fill their storage facilities. The law on the storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants with the established security fund provides increased security guaranteeing the owner of the warehouse a rapid and effective payment of the value of the goods, and in cases where the warehouse is not able to deliver the goods or money within a few days. The payment will be made from the security fund and the fund will settle itself in the subsequent period. This fact in a significant part raises the importance of the implementation of this system, and therefore the interest of banks to recognise the warehouse as a guarantee document, and this as a quality collateral, will be significant. Finally, we believe that such a system can the most and must benefit producers from the base of the deposit to address the issue of credit insurance, i.e. the crafts necessary for the financing of production, that by providing craftsmen they are able to choose the moment of sale of their products, which means that the functioning of this system makes it possible to create a well-ordered market environment, which means that a competitive system that gives banks security enables manufacturers to access the necessary crafts, thus encouraging both parties to be involved in this system. And here are for these series of reasons that we think we are welcome and to edit this area, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the adoption of this legislative proposal Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78931	Thank you, fellow Greek. There's no more club registrations. There are individual reports coming up. And the first one applied for by a distinguished colleague, Nevenka Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78932	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is to simplify the implementation of the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants that we brought to this House in 2009, and sublegal acts and licensed silos have been adopted, etc. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all participants are quickly and transparently cashed in goods, i.e. stocks. Here is exactly what the aim of these changes is and this is proposed in the following way to edit: first lending means with the pawn's right to the warehouse which they are authorised to issue only authorised warehouses. Furthermore, the sale of goods by a pawn shop is arranged where the believer is unable to collect his claim in the money carried out by the authorised trader. Furthermore, that the warehouse becomes a securities that serves as a guarantee in the pursuit of loans and loans, and in this concept may also be the subject of trade which we hold to be extremely good. Furthermore, the best and position of creditors in deposit-based lending procedures at the warehouse is changed and this is done by enabling faster collection of stocks by out-of-court in a public way through public sales procedures at the publicly announced initial price. This is why, together with the harmonisation with the established measures that must be met by individual bodies in accordance with Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental rights and the provision of crafts and credit lines to farmers for the financing of the sowing provided by the Ministry of Agriculture in agreement with banks are certainly the reasons for supporting this proposal to amend the law. This is what the warehouse concept and this proposal are given to manufacturers, which is what warehouses and what banks do. Here, it is crucial that manufacturers, and primarily small and medium-sized farmers have the option of choice, have security over their goods and greater and better availability of capital regardless of whether or not they will use a loan at the bank with a warehouse as collateral for which a colleague spoke on behalf of the HSS Club. So, they have a choice of moment and sales prices, they have a partnership on the commodity market, they have a secure and reliable storage system, they have a simple transfer of ownership, but they also have a simple possibility of lending which we hold is not so small. Storage, in the warehouse, was the ultimate goal of all good warehouses being licensed and becoming part of a real and established market concept. As a result, warehouses are becoming a reliable partner to all participants and manufacturers and banks and processors, but also to traders, introduce business and professional customs, gain greater economic reputation in the local market, but also promote credibility and high quality of goods standards, which certainly gives them the opportunity to be recognized by banks. The banks certainly accept the warehouse, but it must be clear that goods must satisfy certain criteria in the first place, which is quality, market, price change, or the bank shall make sure that the quantity is sufficient to cover the total credit, but also the sustainability of the goods, and this has been done well through the legislative procedure so far. This law, we have already heard that the new dimension of the transport is the marketing of cereals and industrial plants. Therefore, the adoption of this law and the establishment of authorised warehouses and the formation of a guarantee fund have created assumptions that there must be no pressure at the time of harvest for the sale of harvested products. It's important, once again, that most important part that manufacturers have a choice, means when and how to sell their goods. So they decide the moment when it's best for them. This is exactly why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78933	Thank you very much, colleague. Dear colleague Gjurjica Sumrak is up for debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here it is, I will, of course, support this bill of amendments and additions to the law. This is also because the adoption of this law is proposed by an emergency procedure, so that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has reached agreement with banks which will provide trade funds and credit lines to farmers for the financing of the next sowing in the coming period. And the second reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with certain measures which must be met by individual bodies to comply with Chapter 23. Well, here's what the speakers said before, and here's what I'm going to do. The warehouse is now becoming a valuable document. This is the most important part of the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. Although the law was passed two years ago and some shortcomings were observed, this law was passed in 2009, and underlegal acts were adopted during 2010, the licensing of silos was carried out. In addition to licensing, we have licensed capacity silos somewhere around 75 thousand tons that are currently meeting our needs. The warehouse in this sense of the law is authorised to issue only authorised warehouses, which strengthens the quality guarantee element and the quality of the stored goods. The storehouse law is a new dimension of transport, as well as of grain and industrial plants. The adoption of this law and the establishment of authorised warehouses, as well as the formation of a guarantee fund, gives rise to the assumption that at the time of harvest there must be no pressure on the sale of harvested products. The establishment of a security fund certainly gave increased security which guarantees the owner of the warehouse the value of the goods and in those cases where the warehouse is unable to deliver the goods or pay the money, and in such a way that the Ministry of Security Fund's funds makes payment after establishing the eligibility of the request. Manufacturers will decide for themselves when to sell their products, the warehouse becomes a securities document and will be able to be used as a deposit for credit. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development held several working meetings with producers and purchasers of wheat but also with business banks, with particular emphasis on ensuring the necessary sources of credit lines for the lending of agricultural producers from both HBOR and loans secured by warehouses issued by authorised warehouses including other credit lines available to commercial banks. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Business Banks are ready to monitor and finance the autumn and spring sowing on the basis of such a document. So far, agricultural producers have not been even on the market and this Storage Act should ensure this equality, the privileged market status of agricultural producers has been achieved and the rights of farmers to place their goods stored in licensed warehouses on the market and therefore I will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78935	Thank you very much to my colleague. My colleague Zeljko Turk next applied for a hearing. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78936	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here is the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and what colleagues have said is that this law is the consequence of the observed needs for certain changes that life has imposed as such, i.e. the original good and quality idea has been questioned in some way if we do not make certain steps, and this specifically means that these amendments and additions of the law in question are regulated by lending with only a pawn's right to storehouses which are authorised to issue only authorized warehouses and others that, in the case that the believer is not able to collect his demand in cash, it is, by that warehouse and by the third and fourth, that the warehouse itself becomes a securities store itself, which serves as a guarantee in the pursuit of loans and loans. What is the point here is that the position of the creditors in the lending process is based on the stock at the warehouse, i.e. on a faster settlement or faster payment of the stock by means of a transparent manner through public sales procedures at the publicly announced initial price, and from what I just said it is clear that the competent ministry has actually agreed with the financial institutions on these necessary changes in order for the warehouse to live in practice. When we talk about its important concept of functioning then it is important that in the focus of it producers and the fact that very often a large part of the producers of both grain and industrial plants in Croatia are forced to sell the same at the time of harvest when unfortunately the highest price is the lowest, and when we talk about traders, banks and other financial institutions that they tend to lend money to processors or those who have real estate as a guarantee, and of course, first of all, small and medium-sized producers from the agricultural segment do not have that possibility most often. From what I have said, it is clear that the introduction of the concept of credit with the warehouse as a document which is guaranteed evidence and for the goods held is important to say in the licensed warehouse an additional possibility is given to market their products and thus the manufacturer can decide whether to sell its goods immediately or to sell them later when he expects the price on the market to grow or when he thinks it is the most appropriate or when money is needed. The benefits of using this concept are for manufacturers precisely the fact that they can decide on the choice of the moment itself and the price of the sale under 1. In fact, there is a partnership on the market for goods or cereals that there is a secure and reliable system of storage of goods both in terms of quality and in terms of quantity to move on to a simple transfer of ownership, stock, surrender or sale of goods, thus allowing for a greater but simplified possibility of self-performing credit. The second important segment, as is said here, should be repeated by storekeepers and is also the ultimate objective of the proposal of this law that the warehouses themselves are well equipped and that according to the provisions of the Law they become part of a real and established market concept, so we are really trying to introduce the market into this segment of agricultural production, only obtaining the authorisation or licence for the warehouse and the warehouse itself bear the responsibility of a stable and good business, providing good technical but financial services to the users of the warehouse. Such actually companies are actually responsible depositors for commodity values actually in the same way as banks, depositors for monetary values. In any case, praise is worth the effort to think about and this idea wants to bring it back to life because we know that the good part and goods of agricultural production are actually stock items that vary prices at some point and thus enable manufacturers to make quality decisions when they sell something and B) we allow through the warehouses and warehouses of quality professional, technical and financial enterprises, respectively, to the people who can do this job. When we talk about what are possible advantages for the licensed companies themselves, or for a licensed warehouse, it is clear that it is important to know that they become a reliable partner to all stakeholders in the search for goods, so from the manufacturers to traders and bankers to introduce a new business context, to introduce new professional and business practices and practices, it is certainly to gain greater economic influence and reputation on the local market itself, and to actually promote high standards of the quality of the crop itself. Banks therefore very... topic so when and unfortunately or fortunately and necessary topic when it comes to changing this law. The financial institutions themselves have until the present practice approved loans based on warehouses so that this concept is not a newspaper, however, it has proved that there are many difficulties in practice, and certainly today a lack of money in financing the production or financing of agricultural goods is not the only problem in solving the liquidity of participants. Sometimes it is operationally difficult to secure and pay at the hands of the manufacturer large amounts of funds within a short period of time, and the use of warehouses especially when trust is acquired in the system will enable the planning of sales and actually reduce the pressure on standard payment deadlines. It is clear that there is something to say about what is a fundamental question, which is grain or horn. It is clear that the quality of the grain is more constant, that it is continuously quality, and that is what worry is about. It is certainly an important segment of its market value, which means an easier assessment of the market value and stability of the price itself. Of course, it is an important segment of the goods and the possibility of the price change itself, and ultimately the sustainability of the goods, which is certainly important in view of the additional safety in the case of sales if the goods can wait for further sale. Finally, it may be necessary to say, and repeat, that there is a guarantee of the functioning of the system and of all its participants through the security fund with the aim of protecting participants from non-execution and resulting from possible unconscious operations of the warehousekeepers. In accordance with what I have said so far, I will support the proposal to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Storage Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78937	Thank you very much, fellow representative. And the last individual application of an esteemed colleague, Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the adoption and entry into force of the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants in 2009, and the adoption of sub-legislative regulations and regulations on the manner and conditions of the authorisation of warehouses and the issue of a warehouse for cereals and industrial plants and of a regulation establishing a security fund for cereals and industrial plants in 2010, the legal storage of cereals and industrial plants with special authorisation is regulated. Since then, a dozen legal entities with an authorised capacity of more than 75 thousand tonnes have been registered in the register of authorised warehouses and a total of 25 warehouses have been issued, some of which have been used as collateral or as a means of ensuring the return of credit to the postal bank. After one year of implementation of this concept, details have been observed that make it difficult for farmers to use a storage facility more massively for crediting crafts. The warehouse within the meaning of this law is authorised to issue only authorised warehouses, which strengthens the element of the quality guarantee and the quantity of stored goods. However, in the concept of lending based on deposits at the warehouse, the bank is a believer whose benefit has been established for a specific right to the warehouse and the authorised trader of persons authorised for the sale of goods by... warehouse, so it is therefore necessary to enter into the law and clarify these definitions in order to simplify the implementation of the law. The warehouse serves as a guarantee in the pursuit of loans and loans, and for these reasons it must ensure that all participants are rapidly and transparently engaged in the sale of stocked goods at a publicly published initial price and through a trader authorised for such sale through a procedure that ensures the extrajudicial payment of the real right through the sale of goods in a transparent manner. Authorised traders who are also authorised warehouses other than activity registration must also fulfil the conditions of membership in the security fund. A common obligation to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act has been adopted and implemented in order to coordinate the way all state authorities operate. This law regulates the role of creditors in deposit-based lending procedures on the warehouse as well as the way in which the stock is sold by the warehouse, the role of the authorised seller for carrying out the sale where the creditor is unable to collect his claims in cash, and defines the question of determining the value of the goods in the case of the sale of deposits or the demand for a cash amount for the payment of the value, the use of data on the weekly movement of prices, depending on the type of goods published on the web or on the particular stock market data, along with the public publication of the sale of the stock. In addition, the law regulates enforcement in the case of complaints of a decision to confiscate powers in a way that applies the provisions of the ZUP in these administrative matters. This law will allow for more transparent treatment and more effective and more effective legal protection for all participants in the implementation, and will allow a transparent way of dealing with the application of legal procedures and procedures in the manner prescribed by the ZUP. The adoption of this law is proposed by an emergency procedure for the reason that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has reached agreement with banks which will provide trade funds and credit lines to farmers for the financing of the next sowing in the coming period. And the second reason is that the adoption of this law is to comply with certain measures which must be met by certain bodies for the purpose of compliance in Chapter 23. For all these reasons, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78939	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the reports. The Honorable Secretary of State has finally come forward. Here you go, Mr. Kraljičkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78940	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Let me thank you for the useful debate and for supporting the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. Let only two sentences that I may have understood that you may not have been misunderstood or have given some information. In the past 4 years, in the area of only one district of Osijek-Baranja, we have paid 3 billion kuna support. So each fifth kuna annually goes to only one county at the level of support in agriculture in Croatia. In addition, when it comes to ULO freezers, they are primarily intended to preserve more permanent or monthly storage of fruit, primarily fruit. We have built over the last seven years about 45 thousand tonnes of ULO’s capacity and invested or financed with 25 kuna of state money. It is also a significant contribution to the regulation of the market and to the preparation for tomorrow's common European market. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78941	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78942	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 877. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives. Stephen Mikolcic, State Secretary. And this applies to the amendment to Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78943	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Proposer shall also accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78944	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? One more person hasn't voted, so despite the fact that you're sure you voted check it out. The result? 77 votes in, unanimously. Thank you very much. Along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78945	And we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is point 4, it reads: - The final draft law on the additions of the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 882 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. We are aware that according to the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. By the end of the debate, amendments can be given. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Reports from the board's meeting were received on the benches. In front of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the State Secretary, Mr. Josip Kraljičković, is here. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78946	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, respected parliamentary MPs. Let me briefly explain the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties stems from the need to bring Croatian legislation into line with the European Union's legislative framework and secondly, the establishment of a system for the protection of plant varieties, i.e. to regulate the rights of the holder... the rights and obligations of agricultural producers who cultivate protected varieties. [[You don't understand.]] After the end of the period of 10 years, so on 1 September of this year, the Republic of Croatia must comply with the signed International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties and the system for the protection of plant varieties and all plant species and species and, in that sense, adjustments have been made to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. In addition, this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties introduces a legal provision establishing the so-called a system of farm seed for certain plant species. 15 kinds of wheat, barley, teeth, sunflower, soybeans. The new provisions of the law regulate the relationship between the holder... the rights of the saturated variety and the legal obligations of the agricultural producer over the harvested material of the protected variety. [[You don't understand.]] Namely, the proposed provisions of this law give the agricultural producer the right to seed of the protected variety produced on its holding, meaning the farmer’s seed, limited benefit for further production only on its holding or for its own needs. This establishes a legal obligation for such use. The manufacturer is obliged to pay the appropriate fee to the holder... rights but lower than the licence paid by commercial seed producers. [[You don't understand.]] The exemption for small producers from payment of fees for the use of the protected variety shall also be established. The details will be arranged under the regulations. In doing so, the Ministry intends to respect the existing agristructure and set that limit to 3 hectares. We're holding on to that border right now... economics. [[You don't understand.]] This is why the Croatian system of protection of plant varieties is equated with international rights, relevant regulations of the European Union, as it has brought equal rights and obligations of seeds and agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia to the same in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78947	Thank you, Secretary of State. Committee rapporteurs, do you want a word? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. The first one checked in with the HDZ Club. On behalf of the club will be spoken by distinguished counterpart Dragan Vukic. Here you go, colleague Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78948	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The provisions of the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Plants have been applicable in Croatia since 5 December 1997 when the Croatian Parliament first arranged this area. Since then, it has been amended on several occasions to comply with the European Union legal legislation, and in particular with the part of the basic regulation governing this area or the Council of Europe's 1994 Regulation on the protection of plant varieties. By joining the Republic of Croatia in 2001, the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties of the Provisions of that Convention initially applied to at least 15 plant species or species. Today, when it's been ten years since the signing, the protection of plant varieties is possible for all plant species and species, including content, the purpose of passing this law that is here today before us. Why is protection of plant varieties important? The acquisition of a processing right for a new variety gives the holder the exclusive right to produce, sell reproductive material of that variety. In the case of species that are vegetatively reproduced, fruit varieties and decorative plants, the processing right gives the owner an additional right to reproduce the protected variety for commercial production purposes. As with other cases of property rights, the holder of the processing law may appeal to the competent court to initiate proceedings against the person who has violated his right. For example. the holder of the processing right may request a court order or, if he is responsible, ask for compensation from another person who, without the permission of the owner of the processing right, intentionally sells seed or plant of the protected variety. The owner of a processing right may also initiate proceedings against someone who sells reproductive material of a variety of the same kind or species using a name approved for a protected variety. The importance of the laws so far is that the Republic of Croatia with its 3 million and 156 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which a million 484 thousand hectares of oracies and gardens, is 75% of the working areas, with 10% of the population involved in agriculture and of which 11% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia must certainly be interested in sowing on these surfaces seeds of plant varieties created by their own brains and experiences, which have a hundred-year tradition of production in these areas. It is so commendable to say that today we use declared seed at 90% of our agricultural surfaces. The importance of these amendments on the protection of plant varieties primarily applies, as is said, to compliance with EU legislation. I think it is certainly necessary for all of this to be passed by such a law, and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78949	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of Danica Hursa and the club of representatives of the HNS-HSU. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since 1 September 2001, the Republic of Croatia has joined the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, protecting a limited number of plant varieties. The provisions of this International Convention say that, at the end of a period of 10 years after accession, all new plant species and species may be protected by this proposal of the law, and it makes it possible to introduce a provision on the establishment of a relationship between the breeder and the agricultural producer in respect of harvested material used by the agricultural producer for reproduction on their own farm property, so-called the farmer's seed. Since 1 September of this year, as I have already said, it is possible to protect plant varieties for all plant species and species, so I should have further clarification of Mr. Secretary of State who has mentioned only 15 again. I don't know if it was a mistake or if it really is. Under this Act, the performance of plant varieties would be regulated and harmonised with the conditions and criteria applicable in the field of the European Union as a whole. And in the end, I'd just like to say something about old vegetable varieties. I don't think it's the subject of this law, but if it's good it's welcome. The disappearance of traditional rural gardens with the help of growing commercialisation of vegetable production, intensive imports, and the depopulation of the rural part of our country are increasingly endangering our old plant varieties every day. It's particularly expressed in vegetables. Some varieties are unfortunately lost in the Republic of Croatia, and some are threatened with disappearance. Therefore, radioactivity in this area of protection, so we believe that we will be able to protect our Croatian garlic, red onions, our herbs, salad and peppers. I'd be happy to make positive moves in this part of the law. HNS Club, HSU has no reason not to support this proposal to amend and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78951	Thank you very much, colleague. My colleague Boro Grubisic and the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues in this afternoon's peaceful idyll. We are discussing a draft law, a legislative proposal with a final proposal for a law. It is about the protection of plant varieties, as well as mainly new plant varieties. Mr. President of the Parliament, I'm sorry, Vice President, since you're from the Croatian Peasant Party to ask if you've ever seen white drinths, white drinks. In Slavonski Brod, in the village of Glogovica, white dwarves grow. Otherwise, we all perceive them as red. ... And you saw the white ones? [[/Intruder Friscic, you don't understand.]] Well done, then. But so far, we haven't protected that plant variety, and I think maybe they're nowhere in the world. That's what nature genetically modified itself in its own way, so we also have white jeans. Furthermore, I watched a agricultural show about half a year ago, a year ago when our Varazdin producers complained about the cabbage producers, the famous varazdin cabbage, that they imported seeds from Italy, and that they had nothing that was neither cauliflower nor cabbage, nor rust, nor anything really. Well, then I wonder, since we are both signatories and for 10 years we have been applying certain European directives and measures whether this final bill will lead to such things not happening. I like potatoes, Croatian garlic and a number of other plant varieties, not to mention certain types of apple fruit that should not be sprayed with any means but are resistant to insects. It slowly disappears, it is slowly difficult to see more in our villages. But not only are we going to do something about this adoption of this law and change something in that sense, but we should just do that when we already have the opportunity, and through the law and inclusion of the European Union, that exactly what is ours, which is specifically ours to say variety, species, gender, whatever you want to protect it and be what is Croatian. Because indeed, Croatia is as Matoš said, the country is countless wonders, and so is, but there is a continuation that is not adequate for this debate which says but does not have as many Jews as there is. But it's not, that sequel doesn't matter. It is important that this is the second, that is, the first part that says that really Croatia is abundant in the diversity of species of plant species, as well as animal species. Now, it is true that agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia participates in the gross social product with about 10.11% and that production and new varieties of plants, fruits, vegetables is very important, has a significant share in this. However, look, and every week, every week I look at the agricultural show and look at the introduction to the agricultural show that is offered there, not to advertise from the one that would be spoken by the pioneer or as our peasants say the pawn, so I don't know what kinds of seeds, seed goods on the Croatian market. And we know you too, Mr. Vice President, and I know, and we also have representatives that we've had senior firms in the Institute b, c, etc. which has been produced from corn, so corn seeds since if you want me to tell you the varieties 410, 418, 550, etc. high, low, late, wounds etc. We had it all. And where is it today? Where's the B Institute today, C? Who usurped the country of the Rugvica Institute? Do you know that? Everything was destroyed, it wasn't looked after, and now we have a chance to show ourselves to our new seed slave, but who's going to produce it, when those who were producers are recognized in the world, not in Europe, one senseless, once incompetent policy is destroyed. The land was sold out or given in someone's lease, concession, I don't know how, and here it's recognised that every farmer has the right to use it and farm seed on the surface of three hectares, it's like it used to be a libel for the hilly corners of the wheat, so they all re-sowed that libela that flooded our mountainous regions, Italian wheat, Italian seed that was suitable for those parts. It is clear that the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal, we are only calling and calling for the Ministry of Agriculture to make sure that this law that adopts is of benefit to Croatia that I repeat again if it would encourage and produce it or to tell the restoration of our seeds to say traditional cultures, Croatian cultures, as I have already said from that garlic, can also show Europe and the world what it has. That's where we can really show ourselves. If we just adopt this law because we approach the European Union and then we bring the documents into line with the Council of Europe's directives, and then that's just enough for it to be adopted, because that's the E-label, so the law is P.Z.E. 882, and then much of it will not benefit Croatia. The HDSSB will be in favour, raise your hand for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78953	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78954	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties aims to regulate the area of protection of plant varieties. The method and procedure for the protection of plant varieties shall include the procedure for granting, content, duration and method of transfer and entry of the application of the processing law as well as the protection of the holder of that right. Let us remember the first law governing this area was passed at the end of 1997, as the Law on the Protection of the Variety of Agricultural Plants, which was subsequently completed and amended on two occasions. On the basis of these additions and these legal frameworks, two sublaws have been drawn up and published in accordance with the legal obligation so far. Finally, we see that the aim of the adoption of the above-mentioned law and its amendments is also to complement the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with European regulations, in particular the part of the basic regulation governing this area. As we've heard before... Since 1 September 2001, the Republic of Croatia has joined the international Convention to protect new plant varieties as a full member. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of this Convention, in the sense of the process of protection of plant varieties, shall apply from the date on which the Signatory State becomes bound by this Convention to at least 15 plant species and species, and no later than 10 years after the date of that date, to all plant species and species. As the period of 10 years and the protection of plant varieties expires on 1 September 2011, it must be possible for all plant species and species, the need for the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties has been demonstrated in order to fully comply with Croatian legislation and legislation of the European Union. The proposed amendments to the law introduce a provision of an article establishing the relationship between the rightholders and the agricultural producer in respect of harvested material used by the agricultural producer for reproduction on its own agricultural holding, as well as the possibility of granting processing rights for those species or varieties not covered by the system of protection of plant varieties. The agricultural producer benefiting from such an option must pay the appropriate compensation to the rightholder, who had the right to claim which is lower than the licence paid by the seed producer, except for small agricultural producers who were excluded from the obligation to pay this fee. Overall, in view of the provisions of this law, it aims to regulate the system and the relationship between processors and agricultural producers, and to fully comply with legislation in the European Union. For all these reasons, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78955	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78956	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard from the Republic of Croatia since September 2001 that it is a member of the International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, and its provisions apply from the date on which the Signatory State becomes attached to this international Convention to at least 15 plant species or species, and at the latest after the expiry of the period of 10 years. Since this period has expired and variety protection is possible for all plant species and species, it is necessary to adopt this law which essentially confirms the framework of the International Convention for the Protection of Plant Varieties. These amendments and amendments fully align the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union in the segment of the protection of plant varieties, and the amendments relate primarily to the relationship between the breeders and agricultural producers in the case of harvested material used by the agricultural producer for reproduction on their own farm property, so-called ‘the agricultural holding’. the system of the farmer’s seed, and the second amendment refers to the fact that plant variety protection is possible for all plant species and species from now on. I would like to remind you that here are the amendments to the 2008 Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties and so on. related licences under the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties in the form of legal protection of the inventions in the field of biotechnology, that the issue of jurisdiction is regulated, that the scope is precisely defined, as well as the processing agents. The responsibility of the legal and natural person for the quality of the fruit material placed on the market is more clearly defined, which I hold to a significant provision of previous amendments. The Croatian Parliament also adopted the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties. Why does it matter? It is important because the seed sector in the agricultural and production sense has a significant place in the total Croatian economy, which is indicated not only by a high level of expertise and knowledge about genetics and fertilisation but also by the amount of produced seed and fruit material in the Republic of Croatia. On the market in Croatia, as well as in most production areas under wheat, barley, corn and soybean, the most represented varieties of exactly domestic processing houses are, in part, the consequences, meaning among other things, the measures of the country to which the incentives in production are linked to the use of certified seed and fruit material, aware that the quality seed is the basis for successful, sustainable and profitable agriculture. Here, I would also like to stress that the previous amendments to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties are open and the possibility of extending the list of plant species that can be protected by the granting of processing rights. I will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties in order to improve certain provisions and of course complements, but first because by entering the EU, it will be possible for the legal protection of the rights of our processors, and for this reason I have also mentioned our professional potential, meaning from the level of the national legislative system that will provide protection on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time it will be possible to protect the plant variety at the level of all EU countries by protecting at the Central Office for the Protection of Plant Varieties of the Community. Here, and these amendments that fully comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU regulations means retaining its own national system, and the benefits of the EU system are an example that can still be done successfully and therefore I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78957	Thank you. Next up, the distinguished representative of Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the method and procedure for the protection of plant varieties, including the procedure for granting, content, duration and method of transfer and admission of the use of processing rights as well as the protection of the holder of the processing law. So the provision of this law is the ultimate goal of regulating the system and the relationship between the rightholders and the agricultural producers. We have already heard, and on 1 September 2001, the Republic of Croatia has joined the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties, meaning the provisions of this International Convention, in terms of the process for the protection of plant varieties, shall apply from the date on which the Signatory State becomes attached to this International Convention and at least 15 plant species or species and no later than 10 years after that date. Since a period of 10 years and protection of plant varieties is possible for all plant species on 1 September 2011, the need for the adoption of this law has been demonstrated in order to fully comply with Croatian legislation with EU legislation and respect for international contracts. The framework of the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties is hereby confirmed by the law. This proposed law seeks to fully comply with EU legislation. This follow-up procedure identified the need for the existing provisions of the law to be partially complemented with a view to further harmonising with the changes. Following this, the main parts of the proposed additions to the laws that are new in relation to the existing regulation of the area of protection of plant varieties are as follows: so a provision is introduced to determine the relationship between the breeder and the agricultural producer in the case of harvested material used by the agricultural producer in spite of reproduction on their own farm property, etc. From 1 September 2011 and from 1 September 2011 protection from plant varieties is possible for all plant species and species. Thus, the adoption of this law removes the established non-compliance of our legislation on EU legislation in the segment of the protection of plant varieties. In this way, the implementation of plant variety protection operations would also be regulated and harmonised with the conditions and criteria applicable in EU countries. For this reason, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78959	Thank you. And we still have one in an individual debate, it's the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78960	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, proposed by this all we have heard this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Variety aims to fully implement and fully comply with EU legislation. Of all these, the most important thing is that it appears that a provision is introduced to determine the relationship between the breeder and the agricultural producer in the case of harvested material used by the agricultural producer for reproduction on its own farm, so-called. the farmer's seed. The question is, I would warn of one thing about that farmer's seed, is that some buying companies, I think, speak about what will happen after this fall, already these autumn have contracts with cooperatives in which they introduce clauses according to which wheat producers will be obliged to sow certified and declared seeds or eventually and farm seeds, but provided they have proof that it has been completed according to regulations. Some companies go so far as to negotiate wheat production with peasants, and in contracts they even condition the determination of wheat varieties. What are ransomers, or processors, doing so? So primarily because they decided to ensure themselves in time with quality raw materials for processing into flour. Since this autumn, as we can see, farm seed will be sown, at the same time I have to say that the waist still feels and holds that wheat producers are not ready for such a thing. Therefore, there is a concern that pure unprepared mercantile wheat may be radiated to reduce the quality of wheat and to increase the potential for certain diseases. Because of this, the issue is to increase the quality of their products, which is why our producers have to work harder and harder. Therefore, regarding this farm seed, because of the quality of the wheat will finally be from there, normally by entering the European Union, we will have even more expressions of that quality, because if we do not have quality wheat and quality flour most likely we will not have anyone to sell. What is the situation with these farm seeds or ceilings is what is said and what are the estimates, even if 30% of the area could be sown with such seeds. So I ask myself and the ministry how many control options are related to this because here, as you can see from this shown, the buyers are already trying in some way to channel this production and it is good to pass this law, but it would also be good to control it and that the farmer's seed is, in the right sense, the seeds that will give quality wheat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78961	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78962	Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 882. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. Please check. The result? Unanimously, the final bill adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78963	Moving to point 5. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the executive law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 878. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by means of an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78964	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, which the Government is referring to in the procedure may not be large on its content, however, since it is only 7 articles, but it is extremely important and important in view of what it wants to achieve. It is primarily intended to remove the doubts raised in the application of the Executive Act relating to receipts and compensations which are excluded from the application. It primarily applies and strengthens this Law that all maternity and monetary parental support is excluded from the exercise and all receipts under special regulations. Secondly, you know that certain problems have arisen with the financial agency related to these protected incomes by this law are strengthened by all these protected incomes in such a way that the Agency is financially obliged without delay to notify the payers of all the specific receipts and the special account fees opened by the executives, and also the payers are obliged to immediately suspend the payment of the receipts and fees relating to the protected receipts. Another important amendment to this Act refers to the sale of real estate, with the current law it was possible to sell real estate at another auction, for one third of the value of real estate. However, it is now prescribed that real estate cannot be sold below its value at the third auction. Furthermore, one amendment to this Act which strengthens these protected receipts and fees in such a way that fines are fined for the violation of all those persons physically and legally acting against the payment of those receipts to another account rather than to a protected account, here it may be important to point out that this is the adoption of one complaint by the Ombudsman for children where it is apparent that some parents avoid the payment of child alimations to special accounts opened by other parents and this law prescribes a fine for all those persons who do not pay protection for receipts and fees to a special account. We suggest you pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78965	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, good. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78966	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since its entry into force and amendments and additions to the Executive Act have started to apply, and this is the beginning of this year, they have caused great confusion in the debtors, and almost few citizens are not in one way or another. If the law had been applied by the one now changing and the real supervision of it had been carried out by the Ministry of Finance and had not passed such regulations, as well as by FINA, and that the state or government had responded adequately by causing a major disturbance among citizens and at the right time, there would have been certainly a lot less dissatisfied people, and ultimately there would be no special need for amendments and additions to the Implementing Law. It is good to change, and this is what the SDP Club supports, and we also warned about the adoption of amendments and additions to the Executive Act, in the sale of property that many have just agreed, when the real estate was auctioned, by agreement, they did not want, and that was precisely what those who could buy a certain property in particular in a particular area, but were waiting for a second, third or fourth auction where there was simply no minimum and bought in a worthless property. Now may not be the time, although it would be necessary to always and always talk about those people who were poor, left without a roof over their heads, and often those who could not get their own, but the roof over their fathers, fathers, grandfathers and even great-grandfathers who were turned black because they had lost their jobs and because they were allowed, obviously not enough insurance through the mortgage, but immediately at the beginning of the term of office in 2004, they asked the banking and financial sector for the power they needed from the Benevolent and benevolently granted, therefore, the institution of fiduciation, which immediately became the owners of these properties and the most valuable properties, and the debtor so exhausted when they could no longer pay, even the last war of such a single loan remains without their entire assets. Such an injustice should also be changed and the satisfaction and security of the search of creditors of the highest financial institutions we consider in the SDP club through the mortgage is perfectly sufficient. And that is why we welcome this change that says that real estate cannot and when the mortgage is secured, this demand cannot be sold for invaluable or over half of its value. However, it is necessary here to say why the government is only now responding and it responds to the amendments to the executive law rather than reacting to the Prime Minister's threshold, who was in charge of the existing Executive Law, that it is exactly a resolute ministry that oversees the conduct of monetary claims. With what right in the existing laws, where it is specifically stated in certain laws, and in the executive existing law, which grants are exempt from enforcement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And why is it necessary to copy everything from one law to another? If the Law on maternity and parental support has been amended twice in 2008. And 2011. Years saying that such grants are exempt from the exercise. Therefore, "iura novot čilja2 and all those who apply the law as well as FINA she was obliged to do so. Therefore, it is necessary again for the gentlemen of the FINA, and these financial state agencies need a special law to simply have mercy on the gentlemen not to rub in the most unspeakable way the full accounts of the debtors and when it is exceptional by law. Will anyone be responsible for the illegal charge that is a crime? If a craftsman did so and issued an account, he would answer for the crime. But apparently nobody's thinking about it because they're protected and they have the protection of the government, and that's why it seems to me, and under their high patronage, that's how they acted. Now these are because they are not clean bills as quickly as possible after such conduct by FINA, which specifically asked the debtor to open an account and above all a special account to which it will issue those special receipts which are exempt from the law which, by law, by certain other laws of collection. This is contrary to the explicit provision of Article 122, but also to the whole spirit of the law. How can the debtor know that because there will be a debtor who is more factually and legally and not in debt and who is not in debt and who is being held accountable against them? And no one was responsible for trying to collect the claims, and there are cases especially of large corporations whose accounts are otherwise difficult to control, but they can be controlled by certificates of such claims paid. So, they're being ordered by FINA to open special accounts. Although FINA is available, such authority has been given by the state to dispose of all financial transactions. But it's tiring for them to dig into one account to see who's in debt to all debtors. So I ask that the term here is quite inadequate, which is a party to the Executive Act, the payers of receipts, these are the perpetrator's debtors. Because there, in those first provisions of the Implementing Law, it refers precisely to certain concepts which are specific and which are used in this bill. For the sake of consistency of this law, and also for legal nomotechnics, it would also be noted in the amendments to Article 3 that this should also be taken into account. But to get back to the problem itself. So they asked for payment, and those whose claims were outdated and who had already charged that claim. It has also been asked of people to bring such certificates. Some didn't have it, some had it, but they were sent to a lawsuit then. Some of them didn't even get an executive license so they could see what it was about. So it's not an individual phenomenon it's simply in Croatia since the first mass phenomenon program that people were chasing in FINA to see what it's about, because their accounts were blocked and they were blocked against the law. And instead of being held there by someone from FINA, it was either responsible or it was not themselves that they passed sublegal acts that were contrary to the Implementing Law and to certain other laws, noting in particular the Law on maternity and parental support, then there might not even be a need for amendments and additions to the Implementing Law other than enforcement of real estate. The question is, who's going to answer for it? People have been blocked by accounts for months, they had to be exposed to special costs because all of this, every opening of the account, the writing of these excerpts, the searching of data on paid bills, for every thing people were thrown out at special costs. I'm saying, the most embarrassing thing is the fact that people with disabilities, defenders who have such special same accessories, were blocked by accounts, and we're not talking the same about births that were left without parental financial support. So, it is not so much a problem sometimes in the clumsy laws, but it would somehow, given Chapter 23, we are in a way passing laws that are not only in line with legal standards and with European law, but we are also making more and more account now about this horizontal balance and that one law is not contrary to another law. But now our greatest enemies are sublegal acts. Unfortunately, with the highest levels in power, we can hear it that's how the government regulated its regulation even though it says something else in the Constitution. So it's one big death that will be met by citizens, which then causes a special reaction to the administrative court, and now we see what the government is preparing and tightening or increasing administrative fees, which therefore enables or prevents citizens from protecting themselves from the will of the state administration. So all the trouble is not what the citizens have faced since 1.1 and otherwise it is less in certain irregularities in the law itself, and more in the implementation itself. Therefore, but it is already a matter of power, less even a matter of parliament and legislative authority, and more a matter of state red tape. Therefore, this is what Croatia has yet to face, above all, that the administration and all state bodies, in particular its agencies, on whose behalf and for whose account they appear, or countries, must adhere to the law and must act within the time limit. The application of the executive law is the best example of the misapplication of the law, i.e. a relatively good law when it is found in such a single scale that it produces everything. He has produced great traumas for our citizens, he has further impoverished them, hundreds of kunas have lost, they have borrowed money to feed themselves, and that is something that is unforgivable, especially on the threshold of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you very much. ingrid
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78967	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78968	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is clear that even the best law cannot experience its good application if systems operate in a way that citizens are there for the sake of the system, not systems to be in the function of citizens. Therefore, what my colleague Marinović said is there is nothing to add, it is simple and I witness every day of this citizen's remarks that all this has happened, and only for one single reason that systems, I say systems react to the first ball when it is in favour of them, and when it is necessary to correct the mistake then it takes a lot of days and a lot of proof that citizens are exercising their right. Of course, since it is a proposal to amend and supplement the executive law which has its own quality, therefore they have their positive shifts in any case the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement will support this law, but we also have the right to say the shortcomings in practice, but also the shortcomings that we believe may also be able to correct these amendments and additions to the laws. Let's just say that in addition to these ten sub-items or dots that define exceptions to the performance, I have no idea where we left our citizens, so Croatian citizens living below the existential minimum. Not everyone who is below the existential minimum of various social assistance but who live with what they have, and that is not an obstacle to a certain municipal enterprise to activate the operation because of perhaps unexploited services. Therefore, I think it matures time in Croatia to talk about some existential minimum per individual or per member of a family under which it cannot be carried out as one measure of social protection, protection of the population. I didn't go with the amendment because it's a complex matter, because it's a category that has yet to be determined and it can possibly be incorporated into a law like this. In any case, the protection provided for in Article 4 on the protection of the value of the property is good, of course it will slow down some of the executive procedures. And it is certainly a good provision in Article 5 that, therefore, when cases cannot be found with the perpetrators which are the subject of the exercise provided for in the executive order, the public enforcement officer may, under the official duty of the competent court, be asked to order, in accordance with the special regulation, the police to order the publication to find and confiscate cases which cannot be found. So, in any case, this is a contribution to prevent this game of hide-and-seek if anyone suspects or knows that there might be an execution over real estate, or even movables. There is one problem that this law cannot solve, a complete executive law, which is how to prevent the performance and protect consumers from performing an unexecuted service. How can a citizen be protected, for example? that Croatian television subscriber who has not received signals for more than a year and does not see the HRT programme, but is required to pay a fee every month, a TV subscription. If he does not do so, after two or three months, the implementation of all claims will take place. It's just one of the cases. I had a case where the citizens suffered from the disposal of garbage that just didn't happen. It happened in a small municipality and a man proved it was not arranged. But that's the kind of execution that's sitting down. Therefore, there is no mechanism to protect against the enforcement of an unexecuted service. That's not true. The implementation shall also be carried out by decision of the competent authorities, cities and municipalities for certain services by decision, and not only by contract. I'd be happy to carry out a decision just by contract. It shall be implemented by law and by the decisions of the relevant authorities of local self-government. Therefore, it is not only a contract that regulates mutual relations that lays the basis for the implementation of the decision. So I'm talking about life practice and what's going on, and you can do it legally in a different way. But I argue that it is not the basis of an executive procedure just a mutual agreement in which relations are arranged but it can be the legal basis or decision of a single body of local self-government. Therefore, we certainly do not doubt that these amendments and additions to the Executive Act are necessary and that they improve the whole situation in some way, but this whole story with these amendments and additions will end with the taste of bitterness for those who really ran to protect their receipts in FINA, open new accounts and have problems eventually with the refund of the bill, and already paid for the previously paid bill. Therefore, it is a little late for these amendments and additions to the law, but let's be sure, given the positive connotation of these amendments and the addition of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Pension Party will support these amendments to the Executive Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78969	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDZ Club's distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law. Of course, all in order to make it even better and more effective in the sense of what is the fundamental objective of both the entire executive procedure and the executive law, and this is an effective exercise in terms of the believer's right to obtain ultimately and in fact what is given to him by some powerful act and determined. But on the other hand, so is the protection of existence, i.e. existential protection of debtors. By strategic decision of the Croatian Government in 2009, Croatia launched a thorough reform of the entire executive legislation and the executive procedure precisely for the purpose of, therefore, effective, rapid implementation but also in simplifying the executive procedure. Let us not forget that an executive procedure and an executive right is one of the essential components of the entire judiciary. In fact, when a person demands a right, it is not enough for him to get a judgment of power, it is not enough for him to get a solution that he has a right to do something but is done for him when, in fact, practically in his hand, he has the right to materially or otherwise. Let us not forget that the executions have long been burdened by Croatian courts. The data is that in the whole, of all unresolved cases in front of Croatian courts, about 40% of the executive cases that would actually seem marginal to someone who likes to say serious justice. But they're not marginal at all. Because as long as the execution isn't done, the person who asked for a certain right before the court didn't get it. What was once considered to have been completed when the seal was placed on the decision of the execution. Of course that's not the case, because even the solution to the outcome doesn't mean anything to you until you have a thing, a right or a money in your hands. Therefore, this one fundamental reform was really needed. By adopting 2010 the Implementing Law, the Law on Public Executives as a new Institute and persons from whom a real effective implementation is expected, and with respect to them will come into effect in 1.1.2012, which is then really expected to be effective in implementing the last stage of the exercise, which is after the adoption of a solution on the completion of the effective enforcement. It was also passed a bill on payment on cash, on cash claims accounts. Now, I would agree with my predecessors in the debate that this problem that has arisen in the application of the executive, new executive law is an issue of enforcement on those assets that are excluded from the exercise. So, in that sense, the law made it clear what was his point, what was his intensity, and what was wanted by law. However, implementation has been carried out to cover the performances and the receipts over which the law prohibits enforcement. And I'd agree to do that in some sublegal act, and I'd say even by sublaw. Therefore, the rules of those institutions that should have implemented this exercise could have been technically arranged in a way and without amending and supplementing the law to protect these benefits from the performance with a little more goodwill. But when that didn't happen, and when the legislator was in this case the ministry, but we all looked at it every day, it was meant to find an instrument to prevent this. It is neither the first nor the last time that we are changing the law because it is shown in the implementation that the implementing bodies do not respect the law's intensity, we have had cases even if the case law in the application of the law has failed us the meaning of what the legislative body wanted by law, and in these cases we were forced to amend the law to apply it unequivocally. Here is a clue to these short amendments to the law, of which two articles are indeed technical in nature, where this Implementing Law is nomotechnically corrected, so there is no need to discuss them. Article 1 provides that the prohibition of enforcement is to be subject to both maternity and parental financial support, unless otherwise provided for in a special regulation, and the other receipts excluded from the application under specific rules, and is now under the law not to be exempted from the application by specific regulations, but to be clear that it is good that this prohibited part of the entry of maternity and parental financial support is also laid down by this law. And on one concern, the care expressed by the Ombudsman for children in which she feared that under these charges she would fall and support from the units of local self-government, the question was removed and the interpretation was given that, of course, this is also considered to include all child support regardless of what source they came from. It is also a good amendment to Article 3 which, in fact, in order to speed up the process and economics, decides that it is not only necessary for the Agency to provide a solution to the performance, i.e. an executive order, but rather sufficient to inform the debtor, the debtor of the type of demand and to give him information on the notice to which he is obliged to pay his debt to the debtor. It's true that it's the right termology of executive law. In that sense, I think that these provisions, as well as the suspended fines to the debtor who, in practice, proved that there are also those who would mistreat each other, would deliberately pay their debt, their debt which falls under the incomes that were excluded from this exercise deliberately not to the specified account, but to the general account so as not to harm their believer in this case, and this prevented punishment as a reminder to them is welcome. Likewise, this provision of a third auction is good because there are many mechanics waiting as hyenas, and they are waiting for one auction to pass, another auction at which they will buy real estate, and it is good that it is determined that this property cannot be sold for less than half the market value, and not as a boredom really for a budget or for nothing. For all these reasons, I support the adoption of this law, as one means to remove all those phenomena, the bad phenomena that have been brought into practice, which is that the law's intensity to protect the existential minimum of debtors has actually been failed by this implementation. What colleagues were talking about is the collection of claims, that is, anti-executors who don't even know it's due, so just sit down for him, it's something that needs to be resolved through the Executive Act, we're talking about, I've been discussing this in the adoption of the Executive Act, and it's an exercise based on a credible document that may indeed be laid down by law too broadly, so today it can ask you to do any of the basics of an account. Here we have seen in this case both utility companies or anyone who issues an account without you even knowing that it has been issued to you, so there is no confirmation of the service actually performed, and it can file a request for the execution of such an account. So there might be a place in the executive law to think about and solve these phenomena through the law. But this current proposal of amendments and additions really removes those negative phenomena in implementing the Executive Act as one good law, together with the Law on Public Executors, from which we really expect significant shifts in the efficiency of the exercise, as a final act of every judicial or administrative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78971	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. The second is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it is up to the honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic. He's here, and he has the right to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, given the quality of the debates we have heard so far in terms of what this new law changes and complements of the executive law is, I will try to shorten my debate, focus really on all the concrete things that in a better, better quality way change the executive law, and actually eliminate all the inaccuracies, irregularities that have been seen in terms of the application of the current executive law. First, this law defines the exemption from enforcement, on the other hand, by means of the means of money to be implemented, in a technical sense defines that separate account with FINA for those funds so that it could not happen at all. On the third hand, this is also very important, it may be a little insufficient to stress this, but this law prevents the validation of those properties that have entered the executive procedure or abuse in this respect of the right, so it is not allowed to be assessed either in the executive procedure in charge of the property or in the second, or in the third, procedure below the actual half of the value of the real estate. It should also be noted that certain nomotechnical errors have also been corrected, but that penalties for all those who do not comply with these provisions of the law have been prevented, or if they were found in specific life situations that do not lead to the implementation of this law for specific situations are provided for that and penalties for those who do not, therefore, comply with the prescribed provisions of the Implementing Law. So this law or amendments and additions to the Implementing Law will prevent all those unwanted situations that we've really witnessed from being followed and actually happening, not so much because I'm the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78973	Dear Representative Grubisic, please remain for another 10 minutes so that someone will still be out of the opposition. You're the only one left. No, but if it doesn't turn out to be a one-sided person here, let it be someone from the opposition. ... And maybe we'll be done by then, let's wait a little longer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, excuse me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78974	Mr. Vice President, count your 65 as many MPs as you have in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78975	Enough, enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78976	Yeah, if you're 5, there's plenty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78977	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78978	So the representative part is there, so we can move on. Therefore, because of what I have said and because of this, it is a small change, but important changes, they absolutely need to be accepted and they will certainly make the executive procedure and the application of the Implementing Law a better quality and application of the Implementing Law in the right or appropriate way in terms of the application of the Implementing Law. And in that sense, this law absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78979	Thank you. Now it's time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78980	Here is the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, which is therefore proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure, and as we know, the new Executive Act of the Croatian Parliament adopted in November of last year and which was created as a result of the reform of the executive system in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Strategic Study of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of July 2009. The aim of this study was to simplify and shorten the duration of the executive procedure, to increase its effectiveness, which should ultimately result in the discharging of courts because the ineffective executive procedure for many years was one of the main reasons for the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, despite numerous efforts to improve it. For these very reasons, the new Implementing Law created a legislative framework for a different way of implementing the exercise, a court order was abandoned, and the executive procedure introduced public perpetrators as independent and independent service holders and public trust persons. Therefore, public perpetrators should ensure faster, simpler and more quality implementation of the exercise, which should ultimately contribute to the effectiveness of our judicial system, but also to the rule of law. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to the Implementing Act, they are necessary, as explained, for the reasons that certain shortcomings, certain ambiguities and doubts have been identified in the application of the law, and are more specifically defined as to which the receipts and charges are exempt from the application of the law and in such a way as to indicate that maternity and parental financial support, as well as any other receipts, are exempt from the application under specific regulations. And just like this clear and precise normisation, so the abuses that have been happening so far that my predecessors here in the debates have said that they were also subject to the charge. The prevention of abuse is further observed by a provision requiring paymentors to deny the payment of protected applications and fees and to be ordered to make payment of the protected income to the specific account of the perpetrators. For the implementation of this provision, it is extremely important to prescribe a criminal penalty for the payer acting contrary to that legal obligation, so as to oblige the payment of the protected income to a special account. I also hold important and support changes aimed at greater protection of parties in the executive process through the introduction of the option of holding a third auction hearing, which my colleagues also spoke of before me, so I will not repeat. So for these reasons, I will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Executive Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78981	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the HDSSB club 5 minutes, distinguished representative Boro Grubišić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm a little sick because I'm cold, so I thought I'd have a few pills, you wouldn't give me a drink or an aspirin for the temperature. But here's why you challenged me to say something about this bill. Namely, the HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal, but we also have certain not to make comments but also examples that I would mention from everyday to say both social and political practices in the Republic of Croatia. I remember the words when it came to the proposal for alimony, to be alimony, how a husband who aliminates in a certain amount of spouses, and in connection with the lack of funds he pays for alimony, there were promises of the current Prime Minister, and then the ministers of the family, intergenerational solidarity and defenders that the state would take over, establish a fund and pay off the alimony, and then the state would collect by means of its tools, instruments and procedures from who it should be. So what does this have to do with this bill? There's because then in this law you wouldn't refer to that kind of charge, to that kind of execution. It wouldn't even exist then, it would be completely different. I mean, that promise was just a promise that wasn't done. The other thing, on several occasions, I asked a personal question, and some other MPs, I'm not going to advertise them What about tax evasion, taxpayers, and that's high millions of dollars and that's going on. In response to the Ministry of Finance, therefore, the tax administration is cited in Article 8. Article 1 A general tax law under which the tax authority is not obliged to give tax debt information, because it is the secret of the taxpayer and the tax administration. Now, if he has this I.D., does he have if it comes to the fact that this debt has to be charged on how it's going to be charged? Today it has been said that there is a procedure for it to now go through the Executive Service, which is specifically established, etc., and I am very interested in how these so-called ones will do in the future. tycoons who owe millions or hundreds of millions of kuna taxes pass in these procedures and according to this to you or our new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78983	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. We'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow morning with point 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, second reading, P.Z. No. 800. Please, you who are here clean up some tables and those who aren't tomorrow morning tell them that because tomorrow's the 12th session. We have guests here, so there's no point in coming to such a mess. Thank you very much. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-05-0.u78984	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 878. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is my special honor and pleasure to welcome you to the Croatian Assembly on the occasion of the ceremony of the 20th. The anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Croatia and the ceremony of the Croatian State Prizes for Science. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of this solemn session to the homeland by performing an anthem Beautiful our homeland in the performance of the Croatian Radio Television Assembly. - In the centuries-long struggle for the survival of Croats in these areas, and for the independence of the Republic of Croatia they gave their lives to many known and unknown, and I invite you to pay tribute to everyone who gave their lives to the country of Croatia for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence – Let their praise and glory be eternal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on your behalf, the President of the Republic of Croatia, Professor Ivo Josipovic. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Former President of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Stjepan Mesic. I welcome the present Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jasna Omej. President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Branko Hrvatin and present representatives of the judicial authority. Mr. Mladen Bajic's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. Mayor of the City of Zagreb Mr Milan Bandic. Croatian Academy of Science and Arts President Zvonko Kusic. Rectors of Croatian universities. Representative of the Chief Staff of the Croatian Army General Draga Lovric, Lieutenant General Slavko Baric, Deputy Chief of Staff. Former presidents of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Envoy of the model Cardinal Monsignor Josip Bozanić, assistant bishop of Zagreb Monsignor Mija Gorski. Secretary General of the Bishop's Conference of Monsignor Enzo Rodinis. President of the Meshihat Islamic Religious Community in the Republic of Croatia Mufti Ševko EF. Omerbasic. I welcome representatives of the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia of Professors Ognjen Kraus and Mr Lucian Moša Prelevic. Representatives of the Jewish religious community "Bet Israel" in the Republic of Croatia Mr. Ivo Goldstein and Mr. Kotel Danon Rabin. I welcome Mr. Endre Lange Bishop of the Reformed Christian Calvin Church in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Željko Frost Secretary-General of the Baptist Churches Union in the Republic of Croatia. I welcome Mr Branko Belic, representative of the Evangelist Church in the Republic of Croatia. I welcome the members of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia at the head of a diplomatic assembly of the Apostolic Nuncija in the Republic of Croatia, the superior monsignor Mario Robert Cesari. I welcome all present mayors, public defenders, heads of the Associations of Homeland War as well as leaders of union associations, especially I welcome all present representatives in the Croatian Assembly, I welcome all other guests present who have increased today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament on the occasion of the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the 8th of October of the Day of Independence of the Republic of Croatia. ... Ladies and gentlemen, today we are reminiscing one of the great days in which our longing for the state has been given its shape and seal. [[Applause.]] October 8, 1991, was indeed such a day. He marked a turning point in our struggle for so much of the freedom we wanted. On that day, at a time when the country was exposed to extremely severe aggression and merciless, brutal attacks by the Republic of Croatia, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia unanimously ruled on the termination of state-level bindings on which, together with the other republics and provinces, the Republic of Croatia has established that the Assembly has denied the legitimacy and legality of all bodies of the former Federation and does not recognise any legal act valid, any body acting on behalf of the former Federation. This decision was a final confirmation in a series of state-of-the-art decisions of the Croatian Parliament on the way to Croatia's constitution. Therefore, Croatia has firmly united and unwaveringly made the last important constitutional decision on the way to its full independence and independence that we have been living for 20 years. I call on Mr Vladimir Seks, vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, who prepared and proposed to the Croatian Assembly on behalf of the Working Party for the preparation of governmental acts related to sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia today. Here you go, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks.
