ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77936	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers, judicial officials, gentlemen of the diplomatic court, church dignitaries, ladies and gentlemen. Today, when we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Croatian Parliament's historic decision to end all state-owned ties with the republics and provinces that formed the former SFRY, we cannot help but remember in this place the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 8 October 1991, which determines that the armed aggression of Serbia and so on. The JNA and the JNA declared to be an aggressor, occupying army, as well as the events that preceded it, as well as those that followed it. The rocketling of the Ban Courts, which was then chaired by the President of the Republic only a day earlier, was in fact a criminal assassination, a criminally heartened communist JNA against the president of Dr. Franjo Tudjman with unambiguous intent, together with him, remove and isolate the Republic of Croatia. To prevent the creation of an independent, sovereign and democratic Republic, it is stopped at the last moment on the path of freedom to which Dr. Franjo Tudjman, was a strategic goal of the Serbian imperialism inspired by the infamous memorandum of the Serbian Academy. The Croatian people's centuries-long struggle for their freedom in their free country was at the threshold of its achievement by that moment. To miss that moment would mean not to feel and not to accept the challenge of history, even more to fail both the desires and expectations of the Croatian people united little when in history, in its determination to finally realize its centuries-old dream, thus proving its right to freedom and willingness to suffer the greatest victims for who knows for whom times in history. And he did bear them. In this occasion we cannot and must not, without deep gratitude, recalling the dead and surviving Croatian heroes, Croatian knights, Croatian defenders and Dragovolnits members of the Croatian Army and Croatian directors. We bow down to their selfless sacrifice, which they decidedly contributed to make this centuries-old dream of the Croatian people a reality. Without their determination, the thought of Dr. Franjo Tudjman about free Croatia would be invaluable, as their victim would be in vain without the leading roles of Dr. Francis Tudjman. The historian and politician, scientist and statesman, strategist and visionary, the first Croatian president as soon as proven successfully overcome all unfavourable circumstances both domestic and international, which were objectively a serious obstacle to achieving an independent and independent Republic of Croatia, proving that the policy of achievement is possible only for average politicians, while the policy for statesmen is changing objective adverse circumstances in its favour and achievement until then impossible. And what was impossible until then was free and independent Croatia. Since the year 1102. of the personal union with Ugarska, 1527 and entering the Habsburg Empire of Austria, until '86, '87. on the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and finally since 1918 in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and since 1945 in the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia or the Socialist Republic of Croatia, the Croatian people have changed kings and states, authorities and masters by suffering the consequences of freedom and subordination in all areas of national life despite the formal privacy of the Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia, Dalmatia in the Habsburg monarchy or the National Republic of Croatia in the FNRJ and the Socialist Republic of Croatia in the SFRY. Only this more than a summer view of Croatian history is enough to understand the size of the role played in Croatian history by Dr Franjo Tudjman by achieving what no one had previously succeeded in achieving. This is how Croatia found itself at a historic turning point. By Christmas constitution of 22 December 1990, which inspired the first Croatian president, Croatia rejected a one-minded communist system and introduced democratic pluralism into the political life of the country that lived immediately in practice despite the war imposed on us with the Serb aggressor and the occupation of a large part of the state. Hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiles not only from occupied parts of Croatia but also from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, our burned villages of Celija, Skabrnje and destroyed cities such as Osijek, Dubrovnik, Zadar and completely destroyed Vukovar have made it difficult to stabilise opportunities in Croatia. Only the victory in the Homeland War after the magnificent military-related action "Storm" and peaceful reintegration of Croatia's Podunov has enabled further achievement of Croatia's state-run and political aspirations, primarily insurance of the Republic of Croatia in the face of potential new armed challenges,... by entering the NATO alliance, and then by taking up our place recently in the European Community, today the European Union, to which we have always been historically and civilised. [[You don't understand.]] It is only in the context of everything mentioned here that the far-reaching meaning of October 8th 1991 is revealed in all Croatian history. The Croatian Parliament made a decision that day that marked the beginning of a new, brighter period of its history. The changes to this decision are already listed in the original foundations of the Christmas Constitution, but one of the basics, which is to call for decisions of the National Liberation Council of Croatia in '43. The year requires... an explanation. [[You don't understand.]] This foundation of the Croatian Constitution has an exclusively national legal dimension, not an ideological dimension. The definition of anti-fascism in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution meant that Croatia, this Croatia, was created on the basis of a commitment in the state legal sense of ZAVNOH versus the NDH of the Independent State of Croatia, but has no ideological dimension. In other words, the Republic of Croatia is based on the continuity of Croatian statehood from the creation of Croatian principalities in the 7th century until the decision of ZAVNOH, but this does not mean taking over and ideologies of ZAVNOH and the political structure of ZAVNOH Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has been on the road to democracy since the first day of freedom, rejecting any and all communist totalitarianism that is often camouflaged by antifascism today. But it's okay to distinguish antifascism, yes, but communism doesn't. Breaking up all national legal commitments of the Republic of Croatia Croatian Parliament in '91. in the year, the first Croatian representative body elected in free democratic elections on the basis of general and equal voting rights as the holder of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, as well as on the basis of the results of the referendum of 19 May 1991, has consciously and responsibly completed his historic task. In that act, the Croatian people waited 73 years. Croatia's entry into the common state with Serbia in 918 was illegal because the Croatian Parliament never had the opportunity to vote on the decision, and the parliament's only decision could have made the move legally justified and legal. Thanks to this, today we have a free country that we have created with our own will and great sacrifices. No nation in history has so expensively paid for its freedom as paid for by the Croatian people. I was left to myself, without anyone's help, cast out by the brutal power of a far superior enemy, disarmed and seemed helpless, faced with the possibility of being forever subdued, defeated, wiped from the face of the earth, the Croatian people sentenced to destruction won thanks only to their... consciousness, spiritual strength, and determination to do the impossible. [[You don't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia today is free, independent, democratic, although it has not yet achieved all its goals and aspirations has never been re-recognizable, so it will not be in the future. The domestic war in which the Croatian people had won their freedom was a triple war for Croatia, a war with the Serb aggressor, with international opponents of Croatian independence and with domestic auditors and forgers of Croatian times to statehood, independence and victory, imposed, fair, defensive and liberating, Homeland War. The first one was gunned down, the second one was diplomacy, the third one was promiscuous. First two won, third still going on. It's up to us to finish him the same way we ended up winning the first two. To all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I congratulate the Croatian people on the Day of Independence of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77937	I would like to thank Mr Vladimir Seks, vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I would like the assembly of Croatian Radio Television to perform the song "My Homeland". - performing the song "My Homeland" Applass. Ladies and gentlemen, honored laureates, esteemed guests, dear guests. I warmly welcome you all on behalf of the Croatian Parliament and on behalf of the members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science, and I wish you a warm welcome. The state science award ceremony is an event of exceptional importance for all of Croatia. In this way we acknowledge those who contribute to the progress and reputation of Croatia, and also in the wider Croatian public we affirm the role of knowledge, science and research necessary for the survival of any nation in the modern world. It is therefore a special honor for me to present to you today the awards for your scientific achievements that you have come to with much effort, endurance, and denial. In today’s world, knowledge society is constantly being talked about. This concept has almost become a glimmer of modern and developed societies. Knowledge is the central assumption of social development and the most important factor of production that enables progress and prosperity. Knowledge promotes the development of personality, but it has at the same time become some kind of global commodity that is traded as well as any other product. Social well-being rests on knowledge and accompanying technological solutions. Scientific activity and creates new products, processes and services, and promotes employment and economic growth. The leading countries of the world like the United States, Japan and others invest large amounts of money in science and research, and therefore have the greatest development and economic potential. Thanks to the conditions these countries can offer, scientists from all over the world are attracted. But growing economies such as the People’s Republic of China, India, Brazil, and others whose scientific and technological results pose a growing challenge and the world’s most developed countries are proof that knowledge in the global world today has a huge emancipatory potential. In addition to driving the development of science has a key role to play in creating political decisions, as well as addressing economic and social problems because they are actively involved in world exchange, scientists promote international co-operation, peace and democracy. Investment in knowledge is therefore an investment in the future, as well as in the political, economic and democratic strength of society. Therefore, permanent investment in science has no alternative. The Republic of Croatia placed high on the list of priorities to encourage development, education and science. Without dynamic scientific progress, it is difficult to imagine economic growth and job creation, and even less the creation of new products that will make Croatia competitive in the globalised economy, above all, on the common European market. Croatia cannot live only on trade in other people's products. This puts us at risk of becoming an extremely vulnerable society depending solely on foreign factors and influences with the outflow of today's most valuable capital of the scientific and intellectual one. Our vision of Croatia implies research and development as a basic source of products and services by which our country will be recognized in the world. Our aspirations and goals are at present, of course far greater than the financial resources we have at our disposal. It is clear that investment in science is linked to the financial strength of the economy. With today's ceremony of state awards for science, we want to show that Croatia is very well-recognizable and priced by Croatian scientists, and aims to boost creativity, take risks and acquire new, young talents in science. Knowledge is our property that we must preserve, protect and develop to benefit the entire Croatian society precisely for countries like Croatia's knowledge and science is an area where it can compete with far greater and richer than itself. Respected scientists, professors, esteemed laureates. Your scientific results serve you or your country of Croatia. You have also contributed to your achievements to the progress of humanity and Croatia gives you the state rewards of gratitude and encourages you to continue to spread scientific knowledge. I hope first and foremost for Croatia's future well-being and for all its progress. Ladies and gentlemen, honored laureates, dear guests. Now, I'm asking you to start with a program to share the state's prize for science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77938	The Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science appointed by the decision of the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 19 June 2008 as the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prize for Science, Minister of Science, Education and Sports and members of the Committee Professor of Science Petar Selem, Academy Doctor Milan Moš, Professor of Science Ivan Pavić, Professor of Science Krešimir Pavelić, Professor of Science Dr Dragica Kozarić Kovačić, Professor of Doctor of Science Nada Čikeš, Professor of Science Antun Tucak, Professor of Science Marina Miličević Bradac, Professor of Science Josip Baloban, Academy doctor Franjo Šanjek, Professor of Science Luka Sopta and Professor of Science Mario Kovac. On the basis of the Law on Croatian State Science Awards at the 4th session held on 12 July 2011, it adopted a Decision on the 2010 State Prize for Science. I call on Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Doctor of Science Radovan Fuchs and State Secretary of Science Ivana Mrkonjic to join us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77939	The State Prize for Life's Work is rewarded. A science doctor called Biserka Kojić Prodić, retired scientific advisor to the Ruđer Bošković Institute in Zagreb. The award is awarded for the overall scientific research in the field of natural sciences, especially for the action of determining the crystalline and molecular structures of inorganic and organic molecules, and pharmacologically and biologically active compounds with the aim of monitoring the relationship of structure and properties. [[Applause.]] A professor of science called Predrag Keros, professor of emeritus medical university in Zagreb. [[Applause.]] The award is awarded for the overall scientific research work in the field of biomedicine and health for a fruitful scientific career and for internationally recognised excellence, because its research is inevitable in contemporary endoscopic surgery in the area of the frontal pit, and Keros's classification as a key word is listed today in the world's anatomical, rinological, radiological, neuroscopic, and ophthalmological journals, textbooks and manuals, as well as for significant research into the developmental and functional morphology of the spine, especially the neck spine and tendons of the axis teeth, as well as lumposacral translation and biomechanically based surgical approaches in the spine canal, especially for nearly five decades of its commitment to public education, and efforts to promote Croatian medical title. [[Applause.]] A professor of science, Ognjen Bonacci, is called, a regular professor in the permanent calling of the University of Split's Faculty of Construction and Architecture. [[Applause.]] The award is awarded for all scientific research in the field of technical sciences, especially in the field of karst hydrology, interdisciplinary research, and explaining various phenomena in karst environments, with an emphasis on presentations of Croatian karst phenomena in the world community. [[Applause.]] A professor of science, Milan Orsanić, is called the dean of the University of Zagreb's Faculty of Forestry, who will take the award for professor of science, Branimir Prpic, retired university professor of the University of Forestry in Zagreb. [[Applause.]] The prize is awarded for all scientific research in the field of biotechnical sciences, field of ecology and forest cultivation. [[Applause.]] Long-term scientific and professional work, as well as public activities, have been sublimed and circled into a work of lasting value, bearing in them clear and convincing messages to generations of scientists in forestry. A professor of science called Ratko Zelenika, a regular professor in the permanent calling of the University of Rijeka's Faculty of Economics. [[Applause.]] The award is awarded for the overall scientific research work in the field of social sciences, especially what more than 500 bibliographic units have in their scientific research and teaching work. [[Applause.]] He introduced a number of new colleges, developed curricula and advanced studies at universities in the Republic of Croatia and abroad, as well as for achieving valuable and observed results by popularising science and research. A professor of science, Ivan Pavić, Rector of the University of Split, will be called, who will take the award for professor of science doctor Honoris causa Duško Kečemeta, retired regular professor of the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Educational Areas of the University of Split. [[Applause.]] The award is awarded for the entire scientific opus in the field of humanistic sciences, especially as its excellence in the evaluation of Croatian cultural heritage is reflected in a series of published monographs, books and studies that have been valorised by urban units, ambiences and landscapes, stressing their importance in the inmentary of the cultural heritage of Dalmatia, and especially because it highlighted and valued less environments and settlements, such as Kaštel Sućurac and Vranjica. [[Applause.]] Without his critical studies, it would not be possible to reconstruct the history of the 20th century art in the Republic of Croatia. The annual prize for science is rewarded. [[Applause.]] Science doctor Nevenko Bilic, scientific adviser to the Ruđer Boskovic Institute in Zagreb, is invited to take over the award. The prize is awarded for a significant scientific achievement to contribute to the physics of elemental particles theory of gravity and cosmology, especially problems of massive black holes in the centers of galaxies, and dark energy and dark matter in space. [[Applause.]] A professor of science, Kristian Vlahoviček, is invited, a remarkable professor of science and mathematics at the University of Zagreb, to take the prize. [[Applause.]] The prize is awarded for a significant scientific achievement for working in the field of bioinformatics, mainly the method of machine learning applied in the computer... [[Applause.]] A professor of science, Zoran Vondraček, is invited, a regular professor in the permanent calling of the Faculty of Science in Zagreb to take the prize. - Give it up. - Give it up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The prize is awarded for a significant scientific achievement for working on probability theory especially likely potential theory with jumps. . It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Asja Celebić, a regular professor of the University of Zagreb's Faculty of Stomatology to take over the award. . The prize is awarded for a significant scientific achievement for research into dental medicine and dental prosthetics. [[Applause.]] Its published scientific publications and high citation contributed to the recognizability of Croatian scientific dentistry in the world. . It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Marijan Klarica, a regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb to take over the prize. . The award is awarded for a significant scientific achievement for new concepts of physiology and pathophysiology of liqueur, hydrocephalus and intercranial pressure, as well as for the publication of scientific works during 2010 which represent top scientific achievements and milestones in that area with direct implications for clinical access and therapy for increased intracranial pressure and hydracephalus. . [[Applause.]] It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Nives Pećina Šlaus, an excellent professor of the University of Zagreb Medical Faculty to take over the award. . The award is awarded for a significant scientific achievement in the field of tumour genetics of the central nervous system of man. [[Applause.]] The results of its research work in 2010 are a continuation of the overall scientific, professional and teaching action, which opens new aspects in the application of the knowledge of molecular medicine in research of the most important and secret human organ, thus improving the field of biomedicine and health. . The scientific associates of Prof. Dr.sc are invited. [[Applause.]] Vilko Žiljak, Prof. Dr.sc Claudio Pap, Dr. Sc. Ivana Žiljak Stanimirović from the Faculty of Graphics, University of Zagreb and Dr.sc. Jana Žiljak Vujic from the Technical University in Zagreb to take over the award. . The award is awarded for scientific discovery of the creation of printing colors for the visible infrared spectrum with which a new variable is introduced into the color space, which marks the absorption of nirvalic lengths, thus opening up the possibility of use in the safety print, but also in general graphic design. . [[Applause.]] It's called Prof. Dr. [[Applause.]] Drazenka Komes, an excellent professor of the Faculty of Food and Biotechnology at the University of Zagreb to take over the award. . The prize is awarded for a significant scientific achievement in the field of food technology and bioactive ingredient analysis of food products. . [[Applause.]] It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Neven Hrvatić, a regular professor of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Zagreb to take over the award. . The award is awarded for the application of the results of scientific research work in the education, education and integration of Roma into the Republic of Croatia. . [[Applause.]] It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Nebojša Blanuša, a prodekan for science Faculty of Political Sciences at the University of Zagreb to take over the award for professor Mirjana Kasapović, a regular professor in the permanent title of the Faculty of Political Sciences at the University of Zagreb. . The award is awarded for a significant scientific achievement for the book "The political system and politics of Israel" published in 2010. . [[Applause.]] The scientific associates of Dr. Sc are invited. [[Applause.]] Amir Captainovic, Dr. Sc. Dragica Malic and Dr. Sc. Kristina Šrkalj Despot from the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics in Zagreb to take over the award. . The award is awarded for the application of the joint results of scientific research work for the monograph "Croatian medieval poetry", songs, cries and presentations in the old Croatian language published in 2010. . [[Applause.]] It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Mario Šlaus scientific adviser to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Zagreb to take the prize. . The award is awarded for a significant scientific achievement, for a remarkable contribution to the scientific branch of medieval archaeology, which has contributed significantly to the scientific work of bioarchology, forensic anthropology, paleodemography, paleopathology, and in particular to the contribution of the identification of victims of the Homeland War and the analysis of stable isotopes in the mesolithic and neolithic populations of the Republic of Croatia. . [[Applause.]] The annual national award for popularisation and promotion of science is rewarded: Prof. Dr.sc is called. [[Applause.]] Saša Ostojić, an excellent professor of the University of Rijeka Medical Faculty to take over the prize. . The award is awarded for a highly successful promotion and contribution to the scientific branches of genetics, genomics and proteomics of man, especially for a series of lectures held during the Institute of Science in Rijeka. . [[Applause.]] It's called Professor Dr. Sc. [[Applause.]] Drago Šubarić, a regular professor of the Faculty of Food and Technology at Osijek University "Josip Juraj Strossmayer" to take over the award. . The award is awarded to contribute to the popularisation of scientific and professional activities in the country and the wider region, and especially for the scientific organisation of the "13rd Ružičkini Days" scientific gathering held in Vukovar in 2010 under motto – Today science tomorrow industry. . [[Applause.]] Academist Josip Bratulić, retired regular professor in the permanent title of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb, is invited to take over the award. . [[Applause.]] The award is awarded to contribute to the popularisation of the history of Croatian culture, especially for leading the Glagolitic school through a series of lectures on Croatian verbs and Croatian writers throughout the Republic of Croatia, as well as for the authoring of a series of TV and radio shows with topics from the history of Croatian literature. ./ [[Applause.]] Give it up. The annual award with scientific money is awarded: The Doctor of Science Philip Najman is a scientific novelist of the Faculty of Science at the University of Zagreb to take over the award. The prize is awarded in the field of natural sciences for working on the theory of numbers, especially diaphant equations and elliptical curves. It is called Tony Breskovic, doctor of medicine, scientific recruit of the University of Split Medical Faculty to take over the prize. The award is awarded in the field of biomedical science for exceptional scientific production and publication of valuable works in 2010. A year. The doctor of science Vedran Podobnik is invited to receive the award from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing of the University of Zagreb. The prize is awarded in the field of technical sciences for scientific contribution in the field of network agents and technology seen through a number of published scientific papers in international journals with a major reaction factor. Tatjana Šegvic-Bubić is called on by a graduate engineer of the Institute for Oceanography and Fisheries in Split to take over the prize. The prize is awarded in the field of biotechnical sciences to contribute to researching the impact of aquaculture on the marine environment. Science doctor Emilija Misčenić is invited to take over the award from the Faculty of Law in Rijeka. The prize is awarded for the book of the present and future of the consumer credit agreement in the European Union and Croatia, the adoption of Directive 87/102/EC and Directive 2008/48EC in Germany, Croatia and Austria's right to consumer credit. I call upon the professor of science doctor Ratko Zelenic to the winner of the Lifetime Work Award in the field of social sciences to address on behalf of all the rewarded.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77940	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Madam Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Honored Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few sentences on behalf of the winner of the 2010 State Science Awards. A year. Science and knowledge has no homeland, they represent the universal world potential, resources, capital, world wealth and prosperity. But scientists have their own homeland, they actively participate in micro, macro and global education science industries. Winners of the 2010 State Prize for Science One year they've been representatives of three generations, I'd say the most beautiful years, these are the scientific money they've received from the Annual Science Award. The best years, these are scientists who have received the Annual Awards for Science, and to praise the most mature years, they are scientists who have received the prizes for life's work. My colleagues, colleagues and I were not involved in scientific research, writing scientific and professional works and scientific activities for the sake of reward and recognition, but because of the professional relationship and love of knowledge and science as a national and global wealth. The awards we have received are not only recognitions to us to contribute to the development, popularization and promotion of science and education, to the development of the economy and society, to the contribution to individual social well-being. These are at the same time recognitions to the entire academic community of the Republic of Croatia, the holders of educational and scientific policy in our beautiful, our parent higher schools and scientific institutes, as well as families, associates and our students. These state rewards are for us and new commitments, new challenges, require us to make new intellectual efforts to create new valuable parts. In creating a knowledge society, building a society of prosperity and normal promotions, growth, development of educational and scientific activities. It is uncontestable that such state recognitions act in a motivational way on young members of the academic community of the Republic of Croatia, on our present and future students. Since knowledge is the cornerstone of a society of prosperity, and the science of the lever of the sustainable existence of humanity, in the Republic of Croatia which is soon becoming a full member of the European Union, we need to create a modern economy and society in the next 10 years, based on current and anti-civil knowledge, knowledge and skills that would have to be transformed into a group of highly developed countries in our country, this would practically mean the following. More than 30% of the highly educated active population, more than 5% of the doctors of science than the active population, more than 30,000 euros of the gross-domestic product per capital, and more than 3% of the gross-domestic product is allocated to education, education and science and research. All this can be achieved through the concentration of knowledge and skills of competent and creative Croatian intellectuals, but especially young intellectuals. And finally let me take on behalf of the winner of the high recognition state awards for science for 2010. A year of warmest thanks to those who directly and indirectly represented intellectual logistics in the creation of our scientific works, and in particular to representatives of the Croatian Parliament and members of the Assembly's Committee for the Award of State Recognition for Science, who contributed to the affirmation of the mission of awarding State Prizes for Science, and to the President of the Republic of Croatia, Professor Ivo Josipovic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Luka Bebić, Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dr Radovan Fuchs and all of you ladies and gentlemen who have increased the award of State Prizes for Science by your presence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77941	I thank the professor of science, Zeleniki, and I call upon the doctor of science Radovan Fuchs, Minister of Science, Education and Sports to address those present.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77942	Dear Mr. President of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable MPs and MPs, the respected winners of these state awards, respected guests, colleagues and colleagues. It is a great honor for me to personally welcome you to this ceremony of the National Science Awards for scientists whose scientific research paper left a particularly strong mark in 2010. State awards for science are an important sign of the development of the Republic of Croatia as a country with value and knowledge, work and excellence. This award given by the Croatian Parliament is a support for science and knowledge-based society at the highest level, which is precisely the primary commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to our common future. Respected award winners, you through your successful scientific achievements are clearly putting Croatia on the map of Europe and the world in the fields of new knowledge that includes the world's knowledge fund and contributes to the development of society and economy. We are now through you in international frameworks to be recognised as a country of science, and we are successfully standing by the EU Member States today. I am pleased to point out that this government and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are just setting science and research as one of the fundamental foundations of sustainable economic development. We are determined to continue to strategically target Croatia's scientific space towards even stronger integration into the European Research Area. This is why, while respecting the examples of European good practice, we continue to improve the scientific and research system, and we actively encourage the participation of Croatian scientists in EU research and development programmes. We are also preparing a scientific system for an even more active participation in new EU programmes to actively participate as a Member State in the achievement of the European Economic Development Strategy "Europe 2020" with the aim of strengthening the knowledge-based and sustainable development economy. The success of our scientific system is clearly evident through the continued growth of the number of internationally relevant and reviewed scientific publications. The publication numbers doubled between 2004 and 2010 from 2 000 860 publications in 2004 to 4000 966 in the publication 2010. Let me stress the permanent position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that investment in science must remain the long-term goal of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, EU structural funds play a special role today and since 2014. Since the very beginning of EU pre-accession funds, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has successfully invested in building and strengthening capacity at our universities and Institutes for Transfer of Technology and Co-operation with Industry through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance of IPA. It is now under way that tenders from the Fund for Investment in Science and Innovation whose main aim is to connect science and industry with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and to build an Incubation Centre for Bioscience and Biotechnology in the future and already existing Zagreb Camp Borongaj project worth 16 million euros, which will focus on providing support and support for small innovative businesses. This is proof that our scientific community has a strong potential to increase and focus on economic development that must be based on innovation, patents, technologies, in one word on high added value. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia successfully launched and completed a project of technological development through which we opened technology transfer offices at our universities and institutes and connected Croatia's scientific community with Croatian scientists in the diaspora, and financed the development of innovative technologies in many small enterprises. Here, after the negotiations have been successfully completed, and soon EU accession, the Republic of Croatia will also be available to the Structural Funds or the European Regional Development Fund. A significant part of these funds will be focused on science and raising the innovation capacity of our university and institutes and their cooperation with the economy mainly in the context of a balanced regional development. Finally, I can guarantee that, within the current economic circumstances, we will continue to build a society that promotes value, knowledge and education through investment in young people and science, because it is precisely the permanent development of a society where education and knowledge is one of the strategic objectives that we have set. In this way, we will set foot in the EU as a truly equal member and strengthen this position and strengthen it in the years to come. That this is the case, this solemn moment and the outstanding results of prominent and young scientists to whom the Croatian Parliament has now awarded these awards. Honored guests, high guests, ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to congratulate all the winners of today's state awards. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77943	I thank the Doctor of Science Radovan Fuchs, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. I warmly welcome you and declare the ceremony of the award of Croatian State Prizes for Science completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u77944	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank Minister Radovan Fuchs, thank Mrs Ivana Mrkonjic, the secretary of state who read the explanation of this part of the summary of the reasoning of the awards, as I thank Mrs Maria Sorsa, who led this ceremony. I now ask the assembly of Croatian Radio Television to perform the "Out of Joy". - The performance of the song "Ode to Joy" - Ladies and gentlemen, once again I thank all those who responded to this solemn session on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Day of Independence of the Republic of Croatia and the award of Croatian State Prizes for Science in 2010. This solemn session is over and I am pleased to invite you to the reception here in the neighborhood of this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78985	Good morning. We continue with today's session, according to the established agenda as we say we begin with point 6. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, emergency procedure, second reading, P.Z. No. 800 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78986	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The primary objective of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Court Taxes is more efficient and faster payment of court fees. So far, the tax administration has imposed a forced payment of court fees. The amendments to this law propose that forced payment of court fees be carried out by the Financial Agency which will make the payment more effective and faster. The second part of the amendment of this law is introduced into the introduction of court fees on certain procedural actions that have not been covered by the Court Tax Act so far. This is the court's decision on deafness, on the grounds of denial, on the appointment of permanent court warlocks and permanent court interpreters. And more importantly, these are judgments on administrative disputes. As of 1.1. in the Republic of Croatia, the work of 4 new Administrative Courts and the level of court fees for administrative disputes had to be regulated. It is the same according to the value of the dispute as in the court fee in the litigation procedure. One of the newspapers in these amendments is an increase in the court's fee on appeal and audit for the reason that it tries to deliberately affect the parties in the litigation procedure, to delay, and, on the other hand, is released from paying the settlement fee and in the settlement procedure in order for the parties to resolve disputes more in this way. Compared to the first reading, this second proposal has one important amendment. In the first proposal, there was an increase in land-based charges. However, due to all the economic recession and low paying power of citizens, the government gave up the proposal to increase the tax in the land-booking process and returned again to mean the land-booked excerpt is the same as in the old 20 kn, not as in the first proposal 50 kn and all the procedures in the land-book were returned to the old one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78987	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HDZ Representatives Club supports this bill, and I think that in terms of positive clarity in this bill, three things should be pointed out in the first place. First, therefore, given that according to the Law on Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts of 1. January 2012. In the course of the years, administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the Law on Court Fees, it was necessary to provide for a court case in the first instance of the administrative dispute on a proposal for the renewal of the legal dispute, the appeal, as well as a proposal for an assessment of the legality of submissions initiated before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as before the Court of Justice, the Court decides on the basis of oral and direct real debate. So, we've established an institute called the so-called Institute. Full jurisdiction. The value of the case of the administrative dispute may be assessed or unestimated suggest that the level of the court fee be determined in accordance with the level of the court’s charge for the action, the first-degree ruling and the appeal against the same criteria as in the litigation procedure. So it's the first feature, and it's related to administrative trial for the very application of this law. The second thing that absolutely needs to be pointed out concerns settlements. Therefore, a significant newspaper in this law does not pay a court fee for a plea made during the first instance. Therefore, there is no payment of any court fees when the dispute is concluded by a settlement in the first degree. This provision seeks to encourage the peaceful settlement of disputes between parties and the conclusion of court settlements in such a way as to contribute to the discharge of courts on the one hand, and on the other, the effectiveness of the judiciary in general. I think this is a good and important institute that absolutely needs to be highlighted when we're discussing this bill. And the third thing that is absolutely necessary to underline, and the State Secretary, in her opening statement, also specifically addressed the matter, which is that in the tariff of court fees, it is necessary to regulate the payment of the court's fee for the judgments for deafness and for the judgments on the grounds of denial. Therefore, they were not covered by the changes so far and the additions of the Law on Court Taxes, and they also fall within the circle of so-called ‘Court Taxes’. the judgment on the basis of party dispositions and, together with the ruling, for the absence and judgment on the subject of recognition. Since such judgments are not preceded by an overall litigation procedure, payment of the fee is prescribed in a small amount. So this is the law that is in the second reading, I think that the relation to the amount of the court fee relating to specific land-booking procedures has also aligned the level of fees with these three basic characteristics. This law absolutely needs to be supported, and in particular in that segment and section relating to administrative trial, because it is also in this sense one of the assumptions that these administrative procedures which will be brought to life from 1.1 next year will also be included in this section in order to regulate both the heights and those situations of a procedural legal nature when court fees are paid. In line with everything said, once again, the HDZ Representatives' Club absolutely supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78989	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78990	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes in the second reading and what is initially to be commended in this law is the fact that this law is one of the few who has experienced quite good changes between the first and second readings, i.e. that a lot of the remarks and suggestions from the first reading are respected and included in the content, i.e. in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. In order for that satisfaction to be fully met, it would still be necessary to reduce the fees a little, because the fees are increased disproportionately by the disproportionate standard of living of our citizens, disproportionately, so the moment we live in. But when you go to watch who we got pluses in this story, and that's the first thing left is good motivation with a low price tax on taking care of land books. I especially spoke here in the debate in the first reading that it is good for the voters I represent, for the pensioners because their desire is not to leave problems for their children but to solve land books, and surely that the low price of land - book fees can help in that, that is, retaining that price. The other thing that bothered us too, but maybe it will bring quality, and I'd like to listen to dilemmas in the legal profession. We believe in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired that administrative trial is one of the system's system's performance controllers and that it may not be necessary to place administrative disputes on administrative disputes of the same amount as other disputes, but the legislator was of the opinion that this should be even. Let us respect the motivation of the legislator, but I continue to argue that one control trial, or one control of the functioning of the system, should be more accessible to citizens. Furthermore, it is certainly a good thing in this law and there are good provisions that motivate parties in the settlement procedure, so that even before the trial, the dispute is resolved at the first hearing, that the parties settle, and certainly it is a stimulating measure not to pay taxes. He also receives his responsibility here through fees and judgments based on deaf or disowning. Of course, this law is in the function of preventing hanging litigation and that's good in the finale, and what I'd like to say is, I'm a little uncomfortable with that lawyer language, it's kind of out of the context of the usual language, the usual language. So I found on page 5 of article 12 where there is one note that sounds so strange to me, that is, from other times, one note that says this: under a semi-arcess is a paper sheet of two sides of a normal office size. Well, we've had standardized formats of paper for over a century, and what we're talking about here is standard format A4. Well, can't you put it in a simple dictionary and write in two words that it's a sheet of A4 paper and a finished story. I know there's some romance behind some legal dictionary, etc., but I think let's simplify these legal statements and these notes and explanations. So, all in all, I don't think this is a good way to pass the law so that it can be shown through this law because this law has really respected a lot of objections from the debate, reasoned remarks and I don't think that any law will ultimately be ideal, but in two readings we will get a good law and I think that the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired will ultimately support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78991	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78992	Your Honor, Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Let me first quote some parts of this argument. So here it is said on page 9 that payment of the fee on the appeal, the review against the verdict, and the appeal against the settlement in disputes over the disturbance of the property has been paid from now on as a fee for the action brought, the countersuit increased by 100%. These amendments stipulate that the application and review of the judgment and the appeal against a solution to disputes over the disturbance of possessions shall be charged as well as a fee for the action brought and the action brought but increased by 100%, etc. It is then said on page 12 to add heading 29, which provides for the level of the court fee in the first-degree administrative dispute, and that for the case if the value of the case is estimated. At that time, a fee shall be paid according to heading 1, but not less than 200 kuna. If the value of the subject matter is invaluable, 500 kuna shall be paid, etc., etc. And in one word, we can say that all these court fees are simply increasing rapidly. And the increase in anything at this time, I dare say, so when it comes to court fees, it's simply an insolence because this becomes a skin-pulling thing for poor citizens or people anyway. And then it is still well concluded in the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law on page 13, I quote: "It is not necessary for the implementation of this law to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 because this law proposes an increase in court fees which will be further revenue from the state budget in the future", I repeat this law, quote an increase in court fees which will represent additional revenues from the state budget in the future. In one word, even when it comes to such a law, I should simply step on the ball. The court fees or fees are still in this form today becoming insolent. Notebook fees or fees are also insolent. Public enforcement fees that we will later discuss are also insolent. This people, or most of this people, are literally on the verge of one endurance, that I say no more perseverance and can no longer be taken away because there is nothing left for them to take away. Therefore, let us try to reduce one reverse logic, if possible, taxes, penalties, above all, contribute. It may lead to recovery and this sick Croatian economy. Now let's let it go. Citizens can't go forward, citizens can't go back. We increase their fees. It is good that the elections are relatively fast and then at least stick to the price of these utility services at some existing levels. I mean here on electricity, I mean here on water. But we'll see what happens after the election. On page 18, we are given tariffs for court fees in litigation and enforcement proceedings, and here we are told clearly up to 3000 kuna 100 kuna, 3 to 6000 kuna, 6 to 9000 30, etc. etc. More than 15000 kunas are paid a fee of 500 kuna and another percent on the difference of more than 15000 kuna but not more than 5000 kuna. 5,000 kuna at this time is thus to say one average salary in the Republic of Croatia and I really think there should be some measure on all of this. I want to say once again that we should get on the ground because it doesn't go any further. Clearly, one solution to the settlements is highlighted here, where there will be no fees all with the aim of speeding up the process, the economics of the process, the attempt of a peaceful dispute settlement. So that's where he wants to stimulate people to settle. And if they don't settle what a man can do for them. Let them engage in the dispute. However, they should know that the litigation costs and that they will eventually pay and will likely wear out, so perhaps for this part of the settlement this law should be supported but the other solutions are simply such that they should be considered and all with the aim of trying to put court fees in the context of the time and opportunity in which Croatian citizens live.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78993	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78994	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Fees which are necessary for the amended procedural relations under the Law on the Procedural Procedure and the introduction of new institutes in accordance with the Law on Land Books. It should be pointed out that these amendments and complements are primarily related to the acceleration of the payment procedure for unpaid court fees. We know that the law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets has accelerated the procedure, therefore these amendments and additions are proposed and that the procedure for the payment of unpaid court fees is amended in such a way that the Court makes a decision on the fee contained in the order of the party to pay the determined amount of the fee within the prescribed time limit on the account of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the order to the Financial Agency for the implementation of the commission on the financial assets of the party from all its accounts and the money allocated unless the party pays the due fee. The final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Court Taxes in view of the amendments to the procedural rules shall propose amendments to the tariff of court fees. For example, the payment of court charges for the judgment for deafness, the decision on the grounds of denial, the payment of the application fee and the review of the judgment, the appeal against the settlement of disputes over the disturbance of possessions, shall be arranged. It is important to stress that a court settlement adopted during the first instance is not subject to a court fee in order to encourage a peaceful settlement of disputes between parties and the conclusion of court settlements. Furthermore, the proposal provides for the payment of a court fee for electronic submissions, for the print-outs from the land-book database, for the purpose of verifying the signature or copy of the documents and the collection of documents in accordance with the Law on land-books. A court fee shall also be prescribed for the appointment of a permanent court expert and a permanent court interpreter, and for the storage of the power of attorney. This Law also proposes a court fee for actions in the first-degree administrative dispute on a proposal for the renewal of the administrative dispute, on appeal, on a proposal for an assessment of legality and submissions to be brought before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Courts and Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts under which administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia have been in place since 1 January 2012. I hereby support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78995	Thank you. And as the last individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78996	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. As the law has been said is in the second reading and I will immediately say yes. I would also like to stress that it is good that the motion for individual remarks and proposals of the representatives given at the plenary session as well as at the working bodies' meetings has been respected and are now contained in this final draft of the law. First of all, I mean that the same amount of court fees in the land-book procedure was retained, although the original proposal was not about some big increase but they gradually seemed rather high, and given the situation both in society and in the state, I think it is good not to go on an increase in the fee. As regards the proposal to increase the level of certain charges proposed by this law, such as an increase in the level of the application fee and the review against the judgment, and the appeal against the solution to disputes over the disturbance of possessions, it is therefore necessary to say that they wish to have a desimulative impact on the application of legal remedies, thus extending the duration of the proceedings, so they would like to act incentivise the conclusion of a court settlement as a peaceful solution to the dispute. And that is exactly what is one of the important papers of this law that is important to highlight, which is why I would like to emphasise, and that the court settlement taken during the course of the trial is not to be paid a court fee. I would also like to emphasise the fact that I consider the most important and main objective of adopting this law, i.e. amendments to the Law on Court Taxes, which is to speed up the procedure for the payment of a court fee, and as regards the entry into force of the Law on the implementation of the law on money, which will be implemented by the Financial Agency as of 1 January 2011. So far, it's been done by a branch office of the tax administration. Therefore, changes in the procedure are also proposed for the payment of unpaid court fees. The way it is proposed to resolve the collection process has already been spoken and explained very detailedly and precisely in the proposal of this law, so I will not repeat it, but I will finally repeat that I support the adoption of this, these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78997	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78998	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to thank you for this discussion, but I would like to refer a little bit to one part of the discussion about perhaps criticizing that these court fees are too large, and especially to this increase due to the revision and appeal. We have one in relation to that height of appeal Law on Free Legal Assistance where in a circle of people who are weaker material opportunities are provided through the Institute of Free Legal Assistance approach in court. We have another category in the Law on Court Taxes very broad possibility of being released from the payment of court fees and according to the property censorship of people who are poor in property, and according to certain categories, means defenders, and then all rights related to the implementation of the Pensions Act, health care, means a large and very broad beauty there is a possibility of release from court fees. This increase compared to the complaint and the revision we all know that there are a lot of procedures in the Republic of Croatia and major objections are long-term. In some ways, instruments should be introduced to shorten the length of the procedure. What she would say about this is that in all civilian matters, the party who loses is obliged to compensate the other party, meaning someone, the goal of this increase in the tax on court fees on appeal and audits to prevent a clear litigation, that someone is delaying the proceedings itself by declaring all possible legal medicines. In terms of land records and what you have praised, we are pleased, the government has estimated that there may be no time, regardless of what the government has invested large funds, and still invests, you will see one proposal now, in order to fix the land-marked situation and to have people and already have access and opportunity to see their land-based state through the Internet. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u78999	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79000	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 800. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? It was also accepted unanimously with 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79001	We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. Moving to point 7. - Final proposal of the Law on public enforcement fees, second reading, P.Z. No. 861 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79002	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law goes on to that previous law we had. We all know that in the Republic of Croatia with 1.1 as a result of the reform of the executive system, public perpetrators work. Public contractors are independent independent public service holders and have a public trust capacity. So the state is transferring some of its powers to public executives. In this process, public enforcement officers will charge a public enforcement fee. This public enforcement fee is in principle what the court has charged in the performance proceedings so far, the amount of the public enforcement fees that public executioners will charge in favour of the state budget, meaning that this is not a reward for the work of the public enforcement officer, this is a public enforcement fee which public enforcement officers will pay for that revenue of the state budget to all the actions they are, they will have in the process amounts and the heights of these public enforcement fees are the same as they were in the Law on judicial fees charged by judges in the executive procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79003	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We therefore have the final text of the draft law, i.e. the Final Proposal of the Law on Public Execution Taxes. Since the law was in the Croatian Parliament on 12 July 2011 in the final draft of the law there are no amendments, the Croatian Democratic Community club therefore supports this final text of the bill. The law that is before us, the Law on Publishing Taxes is part of the new legislative framework in the function of establishing a public enforcement service, this law is based on the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors, and the law is the result of the reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia, and the result of a strategic study for a more effective way of implementing and introducing public enforcement bodies adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 30 July 2009. This law will therefore have the objective of both the Executive Act and the Public Executive Act, which is to develop a more efficient and effective system of enforcement and a specific objective, which is to simplify the executive procedure, shorten the duration of the executive procedure and discharging courts. This law, therefore, as well as the entry into service of public enforcement officers since 01.01.2012, is the result of changes and reforms of Croatian legislation. The law will therefore contribute to giving public enforcement authorities the competence to charge public enforcement fees. This law does not have any additional burdens on the state budget, it itself is the additional revenue of the state budget because, on the basis of the payments, funds are therefore being paid into the state budget. As we have heard in the State Secretary's explanation, it is not a reward for the work of public executives, but an additional revenue from the state budget. The Law on public enforcement fees regulates the obligation to pay the public enforcement fee, the taxpayers, the time of the payment of the charge, the manner of the billing, the institute of exemption from payment, the procedure of determining the value of the fee, the procedure for the payment of unpaid fees, the limitation, the right to charge, the control of the payment of the fee, the penalty provisions. And the component of this bill is also the tariff of public enforcement fees. Since the law is in the same text as the law we had in the Croatian Parliament on 12 July, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on Public Execution Taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79005	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79006	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Public Execution Taxes. What can always be resented is that this law did not come at the same time as the Executive Law and the Law on Public Executors so that at one point the entire picture and functionality of the entire system can be seen. However, it is certainly not too late because the application starts on 1 January 2012, so the whole system. Of course, any law can find a grudge, but it's not quite the case here because the system is rather precise. The only thing I can say from my position, therefore, is that I lack a category in Article 11 and because it doesn't exist in Croatian society at all, I didn't even want to propose it as an amendment, and I talked about it yesterday. So we lack one exclusion from paying a public enforcement fee for all persons whose income and property benefits are below the existential minimum. We, as well as the category of existential minimum, have not been firmly defined anywhere and therefore have not given an amendment, but I point out the need to define such an institute and this existential minimum must be determined by person and by family member to be of high value. And it's simple, that amount of existential minimum should not be disturbed at all. Why would I say that? Because there is a wide range of exemption from court fees in the Law on Court Taxes, and here, taxing is listed in Article 11 of both the structure or the persons who are exempt from payment of a public enforcement fee. So I think we should take care of it. It's not possible at this point, and it can't be brought to the chase because it's a very serious category of existential minimum, but I think in both this and all the laws that mention the release from a particular payment as one credible element should have that existential minimum. Otherwise, the second and nomotechnical and contentable law is fine. Of course, with all these laws slowly and everywhere, there is one blow to the standard of citizens because there are certain payments, but I say so in both court fees and in public enforcement fees, and we ultimately understand the need to pass this law. The HNS-HSU club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79007	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79008	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on Public Executive Taxes, which we are discussing today, is part of the legislative framework for the establishment of a public enforcement service established by the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors. The new legislative framework has abandoned the model of judicial enforcement and is the same day in the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. The Public Executive Act has prescribed public enforcement authorities to perform public enforcement services as independent and independent public authorities with the capacity of public trust persons to whom the State has transferred part of its powers. The supervision of the regularity of the work of public perpetrators shall be carried out by the competent ministry, while the legality of their work will be controlled by courts through the Institute of Legal Medicines. The law prescribes the obligation to pay a public enforcement fee in the procedure before a public performer in accordance with the tariff of a public enforcement fee which is an integral part of the law. Taxes are paid in government records and cash. The revenues from public enforcement fees are the revenues of the state budget. The law lays down entities which are exempt from payment of public enforcement fees. A public enforcement fee shall be paid according to the value of the main trade if a lawsuit precedes the public enforcement proceedings. The value of the dispute cases established in the case shall be taken as a value. The possibility of objecting to the excessively indicated value of the main demand is proposed. The authority of the public enforcement officer shall be prescribed when they charge unpaid public enforcement fees. In view of the fact that the Final Proposal of the Law on Public Execution Taxes does not differ from the proposal of the Law on Public Execution Taxes, and given the debate, I will personally support the adoption of the Law on Public Execution Taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79009	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79010	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal for public enforcement fees, so the law is in the second reading, and what is said is no different from the bill that was before us in July so in the first reading. And right away, I'm going to point out that I'm going to, like, when the law was in the first reading and now I'm going to support it. I would also like to say that this law continues with the new Implementing Law and the Law on Public Executors adopted by the Croatian Parliament in November 2010. So last year and it's part of the overall reform of the executive system. The new Implementing Law created a legislative framework for the new way of implementing the exercise, introduced public enforcement bodies as a personal public trust to carry out the exercise on the basis of an executive document while the implementation of the exercise by means of a credible document remained in the jurisdiction of the public notaries. Thus, the introduction of a public enforcement procedure should become faster and more efficient and will ultimately contribute to the overall effectiveness of our judicial system. However, in order for the public service system to be fully established for its functioning, it is necessary, inter alia, to regulate the system of payment of public enforcement fees and to establish a tariff for public enforcement fees which is an integral part of this Law on public enforcement fees. As regards the level of the fee itself, therefore, as stated above, their level remained at the same level as it was when they were charged in the court procedure and in addition to the tariff of this Act, the time of the payment obligation, or the exemption from payment of the fee, are defined by the taxable bonds as well as the way in which the tax base is charged, the payment procedure, the limitation of charges and the possible refund of the fee are also defined, along with certain penalties for public operators which do not charge or are irregularly charged the fee. Here, therefore, since the law in the second reading is identical to what it was in the first reading that I said I will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79011	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will introduce that I certainly support this bill for all those reasons that my colleagues have already highlighted in the debates that we had the opportunity to hear. Namely, this bill is one logical sequence of legal proposals or draft laws, so behind the Executive Act, the Law on Public Executors, we also have this Law which actually surrounds a legal framework so that the new public enforcement system can fully live and function from 1. 1. Next year. Therefore, the new Implementing Law, the new law on public enforcement and, of course, the Final Proposal for a Law on Public Execution Taxes will, when this normative basis is to be established in the Republic of Croatia and therefore, the standards of this Act will apply from 1. 1. Next year. When we always talk about tariffs, about fees of course that always raises those questions about the level of fees, about the social status of citizens, about those bonds of the future payment, my opinion is that in that sense, I will call it moderate. It actually reflects the picture that we already had in executives, not from impact, does not raise those tariffs in such a way that in any sense the application of this law would mean a threat to the existential minimum of those persons who would participate in the Executive Procedure. Moreover, in the executive procedure and even when we talk about the application of any court fees, any executive fees and tariffs, there are a whole series of institutes, and we have heard of them so far which have been worked out in a way that the administrations and the persons of the weaker property situation, those in these social difficulties are excluded from paying tariffs or by some other criteria do not pay taxes either in court, litigation, executive or other proceedings. And we even saw in the previous debate when we discussed the Law on Court Fees that there are institutes, in my opinion a very important new institute when certain procedural actions are not at all covered by payment of court fees such as first-degree settlements when we talk about litigation proceedings. I would not repeat myself in terms of the discussions of my predecessors, therefore my colleagues who have highlighted all the relevant newspapers in relation to the proposed law itself, it is my opinion that it is one standardised bill of law that will, in this technical sense, allow the exercise in the sense of implementation or implementation of the Executive Act or the law on public enforcement authorities to actually implement the executive procedures, to charge taxes, and these charges which we are talking about in the sense of this law are not fees or amounts of any kind of cash that would belong to public executives or the income of the state budget, that is, in that segment where the state has transferred to public perpetrators, in fact, in its name as persons of public trust, carry out their tasks in that Executive System. Therefore, this law absolutely needs to be supported because its adoption represents one necessity in the environment of the process of reforming the executive system and with the new Executive Act, with the new Law on Public Executors, this law is a point on and, the reform of the executive system that will be resuscitated and applied in the Republic of Croatia from 1. 1. Next year. In that sense, once again support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79013	Thank you. Final review on behalf of the applicant for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79014	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for the debate, mostly in support of this law, which is in both the first reading and the second reading, there have been no objections to it that the government would certainly adopt. I would look at it only a little bit, or explained, there was an observation that perhaps there was a need to introduce an asset price here related to the exemption from payment of public enforcement fees, however, there is a provision that the exemption from payment of charges in a judicial administrative, criminal procedure applies to that decision which the court has taken and to the procedure to be carried out by public perpetrators. No special solution should be taken, the solution has been taken in any court procedure when the implementation of the action is to be carried out later and to this end. Regarding the property censorship, what I have already said, the Institute of Free Legal Assistance is, in principle, one of the basic criteria is the property censorship, yes, obtaining free legal assistance, and this institute will be used both in the release and in the procedure before public perpetrators. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79015	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79016	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Public Executive Taxes, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 861. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on public enforcement fees. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? It was also adopted unanimously by 77 votes to this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79017	We move to item 8 of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Implementation of the Integrated Land Administration System, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 883. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Finance. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79018	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia has authorised the minister of justice to sign a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed on 17 August 2011. This 16.5m-euro loan contract envisions further implementation of the integrated land-book system. We all know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is what I have said before, and I have invested great resources in the construction and development of land books in a way, first all land books in the Republic of Croatia are already in electronic form with today's day. That means we can all look online and see the state of our particles. Further development of this system is so-called The CIS is the connection of land-booked to the cadastrian state and the common land-book base. In order for the project to be implemented and coordinated, it is necessary to take the funds from this loan and the government proposes that you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79019	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79020	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Implementation of the Integrated Land Administration System. So, it's a contract already signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and we hereby confirm it as an international contract to become an international body of domestic legislation. So this contract continues with the land-booking project. As we've heard, it's about the World Bank loan. The World Bank is one of the international financial institutions that continuously supports economic development and reforms in the Republic of Croatia under the most favourable conditions that can be achieved on the global financial market. This is a 16.5m-euro loan for the purpose of modernising the land administration system for 20 years, starting to pay off 4 years. We will certainly support this bill's proposal. And we believe that this loan from the Republic of Croatia allows for a full state of land books over the next 20 years. Perhaps here is an opportunity to remind us that the land-booking and catastra project is the first in implementation since 2003 to be financed from different sources of funding, so from loans from the World Bank and EU funds from donations and from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The World Bank's first loan and project lasted from 2003 to 2010, which is the result and what actually encourages us and encourages us to continue with these projects. The results are that total digitisation of all land books has been achieved in the Republic of Croatia. So it's about 4 million 132 land-book cartridges that are now digitally available on the Internet completely transparent and visible, of which 99% of these are over 4 million and verified, which means that the exact data that is on the Internet is confirmed. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, there are therefore jobs to be financed from this loan, unfortunately still for 231 catastrian municipalities of 3 thousand 120 catastrian municipalities there are no land books. A systematic reform of land books begins on the basis of this first World Bank loan in 2004. We may have all forgotten that during that time in 109 land-book suits in the Republic of Croatia there were 360 thousand unsolved cases of which there were more than 40% in the Zagreb court and perhaps we forgot that at that time the average duration of the settlement of such a land-book case was estimated at about 800 days and over two years. By contrast, after the implementation of the systematic reform of land books in July 2011, the total number of subjects in the paper is 60,000 of which lag behind, and the backlog of what is more than a monthly inflow is 34 and a half thousand. So we can see that there is a reduction in the number of pending cases by almost 10 times in approximately six years. Today we have a complete update in 78 land and book departments, satisfactory at 23, and unsatisfactory at 8. In fact, it should be understood that this is mainly about large grantovnica, urban therefore in large cities, especially in the City of Zagreb where these land-book relations and enrolments are particularly complicated. We're not surprised, we're carrying out a land-book reform now about the seventh year. Much more developed countries such as Sweden and other Western countries have dealt with this for over 20 years. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that over 40 years, especially in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, the land-booking situation was completely unsuitable, it did not correspond to the real situation for the reasons we do not forget, during the time of the state of Yugoslavia the property tax, so because it was marked as something inappropriate to buy and sell real estate, the property tax was 45% of the value of the property. The change in ownership in land books could not be entered unless there was a confirmation of the tax paid. Of course, many people encouraged that because they couldn't single out more than half of what they paid for the property to pay that state for tax, I note today that tax is 5% and did not implement through the books of their property changes. At the same time, they could do everything, so they could borrow, they could traffic their properties, they could build houses, they could get building permits, and the catastrian extract was quite enough for them, and of course there was no reason, or people were not encouraged to settle their land-book situation. I must say that in some parts of Croatia where the Austrian tradition was, it was somewhat neater, in other parts even worse. So today, when I say that we have achieved full awareness that land-book items in 78 land-book departments are to achieve land-book entry within seven days, and the recording of mortgages and extracts from the land-book or confirmation within one day, or the same day. Today, an inquiry on land - book websites is about 20 million questions a year. So today everyone in every land book in Croatia can look into the Internet and copy data without any compensation. Furthermore, by introducing an e-bookery in all 109 land-book departments, it is possible for everyone on the Internet to look into the status of their case, so to see exactly when it was received, where it is, how a car in the ZK department. The second project is a common information system, therefore a unique database of land books and catastras, harmonising these data. We know that often parcels were carried out over the years in the cataster, not carried out in land books, particle numbers were not harmonised in land books and catasters, old measurements in proportions could not be adapted to new measurements etc., etc. This is an extensive job that will be carried out in the implementation of the common information system of a single database from now on from 2011 to 2014. It is also through the project that approved the Institute of Authorised Land and Book References, so these are land-booked references that pass special exams, and then obtain the right to resolve independently in the process of setting up ZK stakes, rebuilding and supplementing land-based books, which significantly speeds up the process, and also relieves judges of non-judicial cases. So until today, I was talking about the significant shifts made, but since there is still a lot of work to do new projects from 2011 to 2014, a bilateral project with the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the donation of the European Union of 600,000 euros, the IPA project 2008, where the digitalisation of the archives of existing land books envisions an amount of 6m euros and a donation of 3.5m euros, which would make the current land books digitally archived and ready. This law, which is before us today, confirms the Treaty on the Further Financing of the Project with the World Bank, as we have said 16 million euros, which would provide funds for the full transmission of data and the establishment of a common information system and a central database for all 109 land-booking departments and all 112 cadastrian offices with all IT equipment and training of employees and with the establishment of new functionality of the common information system. And this means full data transfer and the establishment of a common information system and a central database, the establishment of these new functionality, so that it can be accessed via the internet and with the request and with the resolution of its demand for land books and cadastres, the central transcription and delivery of documents from the CIS, the scanning of all input data into the CIS, the scanning of land books and the collection of documents and the management of documents through the CIS, the production of educational norms and the training programmes for court officials with special powers. So, these are authorized land-book reference agents, linking the CIS to central state and court registers and automated data exchange and harmonisation of land-book and catastra data through the individual transformation of about 50% of all cadastrian particles and their transfer to the database. So, as we can see from this huge asset, it's invested in putting together a land-to-book administration. If we count this, it is over 30 million euros, so this price is justified, bearing in mind all the immeasurable effects that these projects have achieved in economic development in fixing the real estate market but also as an extremely strong anti-corruption tool, as it introduces complete transparency in land-based and cadastrian data. I would point out that every shift in technology costs, costs in the original investment but we need to be aware that it costs both in maintaining that system and supporting that system. We can therefore link this to the previous debate on court fees, so the question is likely to come up one day with better economic and economic times, so there will also be a question of how to regulate this approach from almost 20 million entries to the web site to be supported. But on the other hand, this cost-effective technology has made significant savings, above all, to reduce the duration of the procedure and to reduce the number of employees involved in these procedures. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79021	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79022	Dear Vice President of the Croatian... Today, when we discuss the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to implement an integrated system of land administration with a final bill as one of the most important laws that will surround the modernisation of the land administration system, a whole project implemented in the Republic of Croatia for many years. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I believe that it is justified that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be asked to adopt this Act by an urgent procedure in order to withdraw the loan funds by its adoption. The proposal establishes a common information system of land books, better access to digital information in order to enable applications to be submitted to cadastar offices and land-booking departments via the Internet, thereby reducing costs and further making services worse. The implementation of the project by component is foreseen. The first part is the development of a land-book system. The second part is the modernisation of the system of spatial information and catastra. The third part is improving digital services. And the fourth part is the project management, instruction and information to the public. The proposal also sets out how the financial commitments created for the Republic of Croatia are to be settled. The authorities of the state administration responsible for the implementation of the loan agreement, the way in which financial commitments, the arrangements and the conditions of financial management are settled shall be prescribed. It should point out that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the most important international financial institution supporting reform projects, and the Republic of Croatia uses them under the most favourable financial conditions that the International Bank achieves on the international financial market. In view of this, I support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the implementation of the Integrated Land Administration System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79023	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79024	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard the meaning since the Republic of Croatia became a member of the World Bank, the bank has provided a number of financial support. So 49 loans worth 2.3 billion euros and 51 gifts worth about 72 million US dollars. Here I can proudly say that Zadar County used one of these gifts of the World Bank in 2001 to create a vision of the development of Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County, which amounted to $1 million, and this vision and study was exactly one good introduction to strategic planning of development and the basis of course in strategic planning of the development of these two beautiful counties. And here's how I see this significant loan for Croatia. His importance is precisely what he continues to do. This is a follow-up to a government project just finished or under way. So, a national project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to organize land books and catastras called a country that helped successfully complete the first phase of the reforms in the field of land books and catastras in the Republic of Croatia. It is a project that is being done, meaning that the State Geodetic Administration is carrying out together with local and regional self-government units with certain co-financing. Therefore, it is a national programme for the collection of land books and catastras of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, including many activities of the Ministry of Justice, the State Geodesy Administration and many activities at the level of local self-government units. So let's just say in the Zadar County area that it wasn't nearly a century after the catastra and land books were taken care of. They say our plans are almost from Austria-Hungarian, that the cadastrian plans are over 150 years old. Operations on measurement in Zadar County, meaning they were completed in Privlaca, Vrsima, Vir, Zaton, Poljici, Petricani, Sukosan municipalities, including Debeljak, Gorica and Glavica, Diklo and Bibinje. The projects of measurements are under way in Razanac, Policica, Sveti Filip Jacob, Kolan, Pasman, Posedarje, in the area of Pridraga, Kukljica, Sali and the municipalities of Preko. Here is a follow-up to this measurement followed by the process of fixing, i.e. modernising the land administration system, but land and real estate management. The regulated land is still a significant potential for development and investment, and I wanted it to be in the area, with this example that significant projects have been made in the field of Zadar County that this is one designed project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. following this project, the construction and modernisation of the land administration, and I see the most significant, i.e. the most significant value of this loan. So I'm going to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79025	Thank you. And Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79026	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It is indisputable that the common information system of land books and catastra should be refreshed, it should be improved to be efficient and functional, and of course up-to-date at all times. But the honored Madam Secretary of State, as you mentioned, and the predecessors in the debate only referred to the land books and the cadastre. What about ARCOD? How is it that the paying agency in agriculture has a cadastrian base that is not up-to-date, although it says it is not even official. So it seems to you that when you come to the Agricultural Payment Agency to report your land to ARCOD, that truly kind official is struggling with you to find your particles on a satellite photo through which a super-painted cadastral base is found, the cadastrian base is not up-to-date at all, and in fact it's all very questionable as to how true it is. It is not a fact that the consumption of organic or what is called in Western Europe organic products in the European Union countries is greater than the supply, and organic production, organic agriculture represents one of the very great opportunities of Croatian farmers. But to come to this, it's almost a nightmare, so you have to report your country to the ARCOD. Moreover, the kind officer in the ARCOD may, according to your intentions, change your business plans and change the catastrian culture from the oran to the orchard or so, but if it comes to forests, it can't be because the Law of the Catastrophe is competent for the forest. Well, then you have to take an authorized geometer out into the field to see if it's on a forest particle or not, as if we're not in the 21st century, so you can't see it from satellite footage. In addition, if you want to re-use your land from meadows, pastures or maybe even orans in the forest, that is even the added value, because you are essentially providing the country with additional resources, additional opportunities in the trade of carbon dioxide quotas, so you are reducing carbon footprints, giving a chance to the Croatian industry, but even the Law on Incentives in agriculture provides significant incentives for foresting, but no, you can't do that at the paying agency in agriculture, re-purpose the cadastrian culture, but you have to pay expensive geodetic elaborates as if they were geodites, not what they are geodetics. In addition, if it were valid or if it were to be used a good up-to-date geodetic background, superponed with satellite footage which the Republic of Croatia has paid to be up-to-date, so it is nothing less than a satellite image, for example, to google ear, so in this segment, Croatia has entered the 21st century, but this information technology has not brought together all the components, so the question is essentially why it did not edit it, why this law does not cover all the components of the common information system, and not only the cadastary books and land books. Isn't the Agricultural Payment Agency part of the Croatian administration or if not the administration, then at least a pair of administrations that should be connected at any time to land books and the disaster, because you also have to carry these ownership papers and ownership papers at the farm, so go to the land cadastre or the municipal court in question, pay taxes, and you can't take it out in any cataster or municipal court, but you just have to go to the place where your property is or physically located. Why do people get so complicated in life? Because of those 20 or 50 kuna taxes? So let that clerk charge a fee, a virtual fee on the spot after checking whether the condition in the cataster or in the land books is what you say and based on these documents that you brought to the agency to carry out what you want. In other words, apart from this integrated common information system, there is still much work to be done to make a click in the heads so that it is integrated and organised, and not only paper information these systems into a unique system that agriculture, organic agriculture, is not a stepmother, that people can freely dispose of their property in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, not that they have to go through real tortures to prove that at the work of their agricultural surface the forest may be 50 or 100 years old. Why doesn't the Republic of Croatia have a database, a valid forest database? So it would facilitate negotiations with the EU regarding carbon dioxide pollution quotas and improve even the aesthetic visual environment of our environment because people would also start to worry about this almost completely neglected segment of private ownership. Because about 23% of the forest in the Republic of Croatia is privately owned and it's good that it is. We just need to worry about it and the first step would be to facilitate people's paper management of their ownership and their encouragement, and not actually discourage them from having their agricultural surfaces that are forests or who intend to be forests really as well as in the cataster of re-use. And it's similar with other agricultural areas. So, Madam Secretary of State, consider how to include the paying agency in agriculture in this project of creating a common information system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79027	Thank you. And 5 minutes for the club, on behalf of the club, the final Mr. Representative Boro Grubišić, the club of course HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79028	Of course, the HDSSB club. Yes, still Mr. Markovanovic, and he will remain in that double number in the future assembly. Mr. Franic, you've seen very well, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary of State, above all, to welcome Mr. President of the Parliament and my colleagues and colleagues. You've noticed these problems well, and you've seen them well. Here's an example that a catastrian excerpt, therefore insight, can be seen, for example, on a personal example. So, the Catastrian municipality of Novalja,... And then I have to personally come to Pag's court in Pag to get out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, go from Slavonia to Pag, especially when the storm is like this in the winter for the owner's list, and you can't take it out as much as you say by virtually paying a tax or an internet fee to the Court of Justice in Pag and get it in Slavonski Brod in court, why there's no reason. But here, it's not all networked up yet. Of course, a certain problem exists on the route of the ARCOD Catastre, so let's say that the people speak grantovnica and then there is a problem of different species. If you would like to repurpose the land, say Novalja municipality belongs to Ličko-Senj County, the Court of Pag belongs to Zadar County and you have a powerful odyssey right now, but it is not in space but in Croatia. The loan itself as a loan technically here writes in a proposal of this law to amount to 16.5m euros in order to arrange precisely these relations of the catastre-gruntovnica, in order to establish a common information system or an integrated information system which is good, which is excellent. In any case, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia will then be much easier, more accessible to enter the Internet and see both the ownership structure and the shape of the land and the purpose of the land whether it is an oran, whether it is a forest surface or a pasture or anything else. However, as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives credit to the 20 years of the Republic of Croatia with an interest rate, it writes the initial one, the initial one writes an initial fee of 0.25% of the fixed interest amount at 20 years, so by 2031, it is clear that this will be visible and accessible to our citizens every piece of land in the catastrus and grantonics so it will also be seen to the Europeans, i.e. to the population of 500 million EU citizens and beyond. Why am I saying that? So because, according to the signed access contract, seven years is a break in the ability to buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia plus 3 years may be and may not be. It is precisely the time to edit this, so this joint integrated information system may be suitable not only for our citizens but also for those who have in Europe and will always have money to achieve and, in order not only for our citizens to exercise ownership rights and all that can come from this but also for the citizens of Europe. What it will look like and what the ownership structure will look like after 10 years in the Republic of Croatia we should all ask ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79029	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, since we have a formal session on Independence Day at 12 a.m. when the state Science Awards will be awarded, we'll have a lot of guests we've invited to do for the day, so please don't mind sitting in those seats you're sitting right now. After all, we are all hosts together, and any MP or representative can feel that way, and as hosts, we will give priority to those who come to us as guests, so they will sit in the first benches. So I ask you to appreciate that, I think everyone will have a place just not where we usually sit. I ask you to put the material, laws and papers under the bench, so that we do not see each other at 12 o'clock so that we continue the session with the solemn part of the session, and then we will have a session at 15 o'clock with the agenda Final Proposal for a law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the former JNA, former SFRY, and the Republic of Serbia will be an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 889. So at 3:00 we're going to continue the session on a regular basis, so we're going to have the workpiece with this agenda point. Please remove, or help your colleagues who are not here to remove this mountain of material that exists on the benches. Here, thank you very much, so 12 o'clock I'll see you. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project "Implementation of an Integrated Land Administration System", emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 883. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Implementation of the Integrated Land Administration System". Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This law was passed unanimously, with 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79031	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue with the afternoon session with item 10. - Final proposal of the law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the judicial bodies of former JNA, former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 889. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In some ways, the government tried to react to events that are quite unusual in international practice between countries that regulate criminal legislation. Allow me may not be usual, but from this introduction of the law, it will be understood after the presentation of what I was saying. I would read from the declaration of the declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, which the Parliament has adopted on the subject of today's discussion. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia, only the laws adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia apply, and until the end of the unanimity and federal regulations which are not put out of force. All issues that cannot be resolved at this time, such as the position of JNA, federal diplomacy, division of common rights and obligations, will be governed by a special agreement between the Republic of Croatia and other federal units and the SFRY in the process of unification. The Republic of Croatia recognises only those federal institutions in which it decides on the basis of parity and consent. The federal authorities may not act on the territory of the Republic of Croatia unless the Government of the Republic of Croatia temporarily approves it for a particular case. Contrary to this text from the ‘91 Declaration of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. In contrast to the agreements signed between the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia passed a law laying down the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote the provision of the law: "The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia set out in this Law are responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings under Article 2 of this Act which were committed on the territory of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or victim." The Government of the Republic of Croatia is convinced that, in this way, the Republic of Serbia has extended its jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to the territory of the sovereign, independent and independent Republic of Croatia, and this is also in accordance with the international obligations of both states and other states and declarations signed by the United Nations internationally. In view of this, we believe that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is affected by the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and in order to allow the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia to respond adequately to acts found in the territory of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, we propose a law which, under this point, would say that the degree of effect of this Act determines that all legal acts of the former Yugoslav People's Army, its judicial bodies, the judicial bodies of the former SFRY and the judicial bodies of the Republic of Serbia relating to the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia which are suspected, accused and/or convicted citizens of the Republic of Croatia for criminal offences against the values of international law protected under Chapter 13. Penalty law. These acts are taxed in the law that is on your benches. In particular, we would like to note that by proposing this law and passing this law, Croatia is not questioning the enforcement of obligations that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken by the Constitutional Law on the participation of the Republic of Croatia with an international criminal court, that it does not question its international obligations, and that this is the law that will only allow the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia to protect the regulations of the Republic of Croatia which are at stake in this way by the conduct of another country. I would also like to point out in this introduction that, with the proposed emergency procedure of this law, the Government has today established at its session a proposal for a declaration to be sent to the Assembly for adoption, in which a declaration would call on the Republic of Serbia to resolve all judicial issues related to these offences by means of international commitments from the United Nations Charter to individual international documents, by means of an international agreement with the Republic of Croatia, and thus de facto put out of force the provisions of its internal regulations which lead to the conflict of two legal order in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79033	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79034	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In considering this bill, several groups of issues, two of which are the most significant, must be taken into account. What this bill really brings in terms of protection and the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, and secondly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is thinking of doing in order to prevent the revision of the Homeland War, which comes not only from outside, but also from Croatian state and judicial bodies and institutions. On the question of what this bill really brings in terms of the protection of both the Homeland War and the Croatian defenders, the following should be taken into account. The proposal for this law is at the rhetorical level of tautology, i.e. does not bring comparatively anything new that already does not exist and is not known, nor cancels any of the existing ones from the observation of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia very negative regulations and practices. Secondly, the bill itself is contradictory because Article 1 states that, I quote: "All the legal acts of the former JNA, its judicial authorities, the judicial bodies of the former SFRY and the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia are impeccable and without legal effect.", and already in Article 2(2) of this proposal of the law and Article 2 of the Reasons, I quote that this law "does not question the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia by the Constitutional Law on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court, and that the Republic of Croatia will continue to meet all requests for cooperation or enforcement of certain decisions of the International Criminal Court," the statement concluded. This means that the legislator, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will continue to meet all the requirements of the international community, including the requirements of Serbia, because they are also part of the international community's demands, which are also formalised by interstate agreements and practices. Thirdly, on 17 October 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the application of the statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international, war and humanitarian law, which states in Article 10, quote: "Firstly, the perpetrators of the crimes referred to in Article 1 of this Act committed in the Republic of Croatia, the perpetrators who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the perpetrators whose victims are citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be persecuted in the Republic of Croatia and will be tried by the competent Croatian court. Secondly, in addition to the perpetrators referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in the Republic of Croatia, the other perpetrators of the offences referred to in Article 1 of this Act, regardless of the place of conduct and nationality of the perpetrator, will be persecuted if the perpetrator is arrested or extradited to the Republic of Croatia and the prosecution has not been conducted before an international criminal court or before a court of another State." This makes it clear that the Republic of Croatia can and must prosecute war crimes regardless of whether its citizens are involved, and whether crimes have been committed on its territory. However, this provision of the statutes of the international criminal court has been abused by the Republic of Serbia by giving itself the right to judge Croatian defenders for alleged crimes not even committed in the Republic of Serbia, but also if committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The freshest example is the trial and verdict of Croatian defender Veljak Maric in Belgrade, who, according to these provisions, was to be handed over to the Republic of Croatia and not only by those provisions, but also by the agreement on co-operation in the persecution of war crimes offenders, crimes against humanity and genocide, which were signed in Zagreb on 13 October 2006 by the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia Mladen Bajic and Serbia's war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic. The Republic of Croatia passed its Law on the application of the statutes of the international criminal court under an international order in 2003, but it is now apparent that Serbia did not sit with its hands closed, so it adopted the same year to mention its law, the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes proceedings. With the devastating consequences of the provisions of the international criminal court by Croatian defenders, we faced each other in the harshest way, for example. in the ruling of the Croatian generals Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac, but it was amazing that it took the Croatian authorities eight years to understand and see what dangers lurking from the legislation of the state which not so long ago committed unprecedented atrocities to the Croatian people. This shows Serbia in action the truthfulness of the saying that the wolf changes hair, but never. And fourthly, because this bill on the real legal protection of Croatian defenders from possible future Serbian indictments offers absolutely nothing, this bill is for us the most ordinary political pamphlet there has been in this, as well as in earlier political campaigns. On the other hand, what the government is thinking of doing in terms of preventing the Homeland War magazine, which comes from the Croatian state and judicial bodies of the institutions, must be determined as follows. The accusations against Croatian defenders coming from Serbia, the aggressor country in Croatia must indeed be put to rest, but equally large, and often a greater threat to the Homeland War and Croatian defenders comes from Croatian judicial authorities and institutions. In this respect, DORH and Croatian courts are particularly prominent. Here are a few examples. A known disgraced case related to the trial of Croatian Generals Mirko Norc and Rahim Ademi. In a criminal proceedings against them before the Croatian court, the county's state's attorney's office in Zagreb proposed to Sava Strbca as a witness to the charges against Croatian generals. On the other hand, we still have all the fresh and painful memories of the tragic death of Croatian General Djura Brodarca. He was charged and detained on the basis of the DORH indictment, whose content in more than 80% of the allegations was based on the data of the infamous Veritas, the already mentioned Sava Strbec. Thirdly, what happened in the trial of eight Croatian defenders from the Lora military research centre is almost believed or not, and in the main role is State Attorney Mladen Bajic. On June 12th 1992, on the basis of the application by the military police, Mladen Bajic, the deputy military prosecutor in Split, submitted to the military court in Split, I quote: "a request to conduct an investigation against the namelessness of 44 persons" because, quote: "they committed the crime of armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia", a quote was completed. Therefore, according to his prosecutorial powers, he suggested that all of them, I quote: "be held in custody", complete a quote. Based on this request, Mladen Bajic, the military investigative judge of the Military Court in Split, on the same day, wrote a solution to conduct an investigation, ordered detention of suspects and issued a warrant after them. But 10 years after 2002, Mladen Bajic is now in the status of the County State Attorney and then the main candidate for the new Secretary of State General of the Republic of Croatia, the same person he himself accused as armed rebels and enemy soldiers against the Republic of Croatia and who, on the basis of his request, were arrested, detained and detained in Lori in 2002, declared those same persons to civilians who, without any legal basis, arrested and held the arrests of eight Croatian war guards at the Lore Military Investigation Centre. On such charges, Mladen Bajic then also filed charges against the eight Croatian defenders, and what is amazing as witnesses of the indictment not only used the same enemy Serbian soldiers he arrested and detained in 1992 but also begged them to come to Croatia to testify against Croatian defenders by guaranteeing them the security of any kind of prosecution and liability for the crimes committed as members of the enemy army to the Croats. Unfortunately, the Croatian shame of eight Croatian defenders is also based on this salt of the death of Mladen Bajic and sentenced to years of prison sentences. There are also numerous examples that testify that the charges brought against Croatian defenders by the State's Attorney General and Attorney General Mladen Bajic are often more dangerous than the charges that come outside the Republic of Croatia. And finally, we come up with an example that in a particularly amazing way connects recent Serbian indictments and judgments of the Croatian judiciary. Here's an example. A senior court of the Republic of Serbia from Belgrade in the July indictment of the ZNG, HV and MUP unit in 1991 treated the saying as paramilitary formations identical to the Zagreb County Court in its May 2009 verdict, Branimir Glavas, which found that all Croatian military troops were illegal formations until 8 October 1991. Secondly, in the Serbian indictment, Croatian defenders of the city of Vukovar are charged with opening fires, i.e. The shooting of JNA units, and the Zagreb County Court, in Branimir Glavas' verdict, finds that by October 8th, the only regular military unit in Croatia was the JNA units. Third, Serbia's war crimes indictment during 1991 in the Republic of Croatia is seen as an armed rebellion for the destruction of the constitutional and legal order of the SFRY, and during 1991, the Supreme Court treats these same war events in the Republic of Croatia as "as armed conflicts that had no international character", so as civil war, not as aggression against the Republic of Croatia. What's the difference? She's gone. And lastly, it is not surprising that the Serbian indictment denies the existence of aggression during 1991 at the Republic of Croatia, but it is scandalous that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in its verdict Branimir Glavas of 2 June 2010 said that, I quote: "It was only 8 October 1991 that every other state and every foreign army had made it clear that by performing military operations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia was an aggression against the Republic of Croatia", the quote was completed. And in the bill of law that is before us today, in the assessment of the situation on the page. 2. the conclusions are cited which suggest that since 8 October 1991, I quote: "the armed aggression of the Republic of Serbia and so on has been carried out by the Republic of Serbia and so on. The JNA and that from that day on, the Republic of Croatia is forced to defend itself against aggression by all available means." Then what happened in the Republic of Croatia before 8.10.1991? The fundamental question from these allegations, but also from the earlier findings of the Supreme Court itself, is so when did the aggression in the Republic of Croatia begin? If the aggression on Croatia began on October 8th, as the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia said, there are necessarily countless questions. Then what happened in Croatia on "Bloody Easter" in 1991? Is Josip Jovic the first Croatian victim of the Homeland War or an armed rebel against the constitutional and legal order of the SFRY? What were the 12 dead directors in Borov village on May 2, 1991? What were 39 male murdered Croats in the Far 1st of August 1991? From August 25, 1991, when the Serbian aggression on Vukovar began until October 8, 1991. were all killed, but also the surviving Croatian defenders of the city of Vukovar? Then what happened at the end of October 7th 1991 in the rocketry of the Ban Courts? Was it an act of aggression against the Republic of Croatia and a criminal attempt to kill the president of the Croatian state or was it the legal use of the air force then, I quote: "only legal units of the JNA". What were all Croatian defenders throughout the Republic of Croatia until 8.10.1991? Croatian heroes or armed rebels and destroyers of the constitutional and legal order of the SFRY? With these terrible findings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, we must all resist all the most energetic and all the means. Because the aggression on Croatia didn't begin on October 8th long ago. Invoking opinion No. 11. The arbitration commissions of the Yugoslav Peace Conference since 16.07.2013 which determines when the Republic of Croatia has become a sovereign state in terms of international law in terms of determining the moment when aggression has been committed to a country. Namely, the definition of aggression adopted by UN General Assembly Resolution No. 3314 of 14.12.1974 says: "Aggression is the use of the armed forces of a country against the sovereignty of territorial integrity or political independence of another country." And in this definition, the term states are used without prejudice to the question of recognition or to the question of whether a UN Member State has been attacked. This was a quote. Therefore, in order to determine the date on which aggression was committed to a country, it is not crucial whether or not the state to which the aggression was committed was recognised or a member of the UN. Law and obligation, and the need for Croatia to finally clearly specify when the aggression of Serbia, Montenegro and JNA began in Croatia. The importance of October 8th in Croatian history is as immeasurable as the importance of Croatian Parliament decisions since 25th of June 1991 when we are eventually celebrating Statehood Day. But do we have the right to forget other important dates? Did we forget "Balvan Revolution" on August 17th 1990 when Milan Martic was on behalf of the so-called "Balvan Revolution". "SAS Krajina" and prompted by Serbia and Serbian circles in the JNA declared wartime? Did we also forget the "Christmas Constitution" of 22.12. when the Croatian Parliament adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and when the late President Franjo Tudjman from the Parliament speaker found that its adoption was an extraordinary historical act, I quote: "because of what he makes the foundation in building the full national sovereignty of Croatia." The Constitution defines Croatia as a unique, indivisible, democratic and social sovereign state. And we've been kicking more than a year through the Supreme Court's findings that only 8 October began the aggression on Croatia. When within 50 years and more of us are not among the living then the only truth for future generations will be what will be found in the records of official documents and so will our courts. In conclusion, let's not close our eyes to the obvious truth that there was no Mr. Vladimir Seks on the list of defendants this time. Because the question arises why this law did not appear before the Croatian Parliament when Tihomir Purda was arrested, when Vesna Bosnianac was charged or when Veljko Maric was arrested. Until the shameless Serbian indictments have knocked on the door of one and of today's high-ranking HDZ officials, there has been no reaction from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately today's proposal for the law does not solve anything important in terms of the real protection of Croatian defenders from the current or possible future charges of the Serbian prosecution. But it is not enough to try to resist attempts of audits coming outside Croatia, it must resist those attempts of revisions coming from Croatia. If we really want to do something in this regard for Croatian defenders, then let the government propose a law on the integrity of all judgments of the Croatian judiciary based on the indictments of Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic, because the findings contained in his indictments, all of this has features of national high treason. As some of the findings are found in the rulings of the Croatian judiciary. Facts don't cease to exist if they're ignored. The findings referred to in Branimir Glavas' verdict are a threat to all defenders who entered the defense before 8. It's a October. No one, not even the judges, has the right to hide behind a trio of power and so on. The independence of the judiciary by its decisions to revise the Homeland War and the constitutional foundations of an independent Croatia. And finally, a few words about the dispute over when the Serbian indictments arrived and why they waited not 34 but 41 days with their publication. Oh, she knew Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and Mr. Seks and Minister Bosnjakovic for these charges from day one. All the rest are stories for small children, including a game with the sacrifice of Minister Bošnjakovic as Pedro who should pay the price. You are constantly miraculously surprised when the affairs of... robberies have been discovered and now that the shameless Serbian indictments have arrived you remain... and the Croatian defenders are on Serbian warrants. This is not how surprised Alice is in the land of wonders. Don't rub our eyes, the Serbian indictments are consciously hidden to be used at the time when the light stage was to be turned off from the new affairs in which it was discovered that the dirty money from the black HDZ funds was used...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79035	Thank you very much. You've run out of time, Your Honor. Your time is up. Your Honor, your time is up. Finish the debate, you're out of time. Thank you very much. I would beg not to grant any warning or anything because it has no brake, but this House has passed its rules we have voted them and let us stick to them, what kind of example is that to people if we do not follow our own rules. Please, everything we do here is presented to the public. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Dinko Buric's claims did not stand when he claimed that in the Supreme Court's ruling concerning the case of the defendant Branimir Glavas and others, it was found that the date of aggression in Croatia was 8. The October nor is it true that his claim that the rulings of the Supreme Court also state the County Court in Zagreb that the only regulatory forces are up to 8. The October was the force of the Yugoslav Army. I have here both the argument and the verdict and the Supreme Court and the County Court and it doesn't stand at all. Second, neither in the conclusions of the 8th Croatian Assembly. October 91st. For years, it doesn't seem like it's on day 8. The paper says it's marked as the day of aggression. In those conclusions it is very precise that armed aggression was committed in the Republic of Croatia by the Republic of Serbia and so on. The JNA, therefore, does not set a date, but states in these conclusions that armed aggression has been committed in Croatia by Serbia and so on. JNA. It is clear that the armed aggression was carried out significantly earlier, that it began already in August 90. Years, and armed aggression and armed rebellion. So it is not in the conclusions of the 8th Croatian Assembly. Listupadas, neither in the arguments in the judgments of the Supreme Court nor in other courts, set the date of aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79037	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79038	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Vladimir Seks, was correcting something that I did not say or determine the date of aggression. But speaking of which, Mr. Vice President, you can't use lies because I quote 25. Page of the Supreme Court ruling, I quote: “It's only since 8. Ten. It was clear to every other state and every foreign army that by performing war operations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it was aggressive against the Republic of Croatia, against its citizens, its territory, so to wage an aggressive war." 4. Paragraph 25. The pages. You must not use the lies and deceptions of the Croatian public. And besides that, in your explanation of your law, you quoted the decision that armed aggression and so on was committed in the Republic of Croatia. The JNA is being declared...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79039	Your Honor, I thank you very much, Your Honor, don't make a mess. Your Honor, I'm giving you a heads-up because of the non-compliance of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Have a seat. We move forward with the debate, otherwise this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure because you said it and it was corrected, therefore, by the usual procedure in our Parliament. Next up is Club IDS esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79040	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the MPs, etc., what a man can say is that today is a strange day, a strange way of adopting this law, a strange procedure, now we are forced to adopt a weirder declaration. Here in this introduction says that the law will defend Mr. Kosor and Jandrokovic, Pankretic, Drazen Bosnjakovic, we are now receiving a proposal for a law on damage, that Mr. Mlakar will defend, there is no Mr. Bosnjakovic, we are asking ourselves whether he may have fallen into some kind of unkindness. On the other hand, just before, but now we've been made clear, I read in the morning's list on the portal, it's around 2:00, Jadranka Kosor retreated after the EU's warning, the government gave up the law on integrity, will condemn Serbia with a declaration, etc. But here's the law. To quote the morning list in two hours. There. From the lie factory says Mr. Shakespeare, here's what I read. Here we go, reading today also on the portals about 14 hours and one minute exactly, the state's attorney's statement, "That law absolutely bothers you. What I believe is that this bill of integrity and certain legal acts of former JNA is in a certain way going to benefit war criminals, and the rest will bring damage. Why war criminals? Because after that, there is no exchange of information, evidence of witnesses, etc. thus interrupting co-operation was firmly in its position as the state's chief attorney," and not to count further. Easy for all of that, let me quote you, here's a lie factory if it's morning probably not a Vesnik. As of today or yesterday, Mr. Josipovic says "The legal effects of such a law almost do not exist, and the safety of our citizens abroad will be unfavourable".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79041	Mr. Representative, just a moment, you're discussing what others think. ... You're talking about the law not being in the process, and the law is in the process, we're discussing it. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79042	Legal effects, let's now quote the President of the Republic "Not even political messages, and we are not only sending them to Serbia but also to the world are not uniform and can cause serious damage. The President of the Republic recommends to the government and parliament not to pass such a law but to immediately enter into the conclusion of a serious international treaty that will prevent the abuse of persecution for war crimes, but also to ensure that no crime remains unpunished" etc. points out in a statement so I don't quote any other statements now and so forth. However, yes, we will all probably agree here that there is certainly no city like Vukovar and Srebrenica, clearly and Srebrenica that have suffered so much in the 1990s. Right, you're not going to correct me Vukovar has somehow defended Croatia, without Vukovar and Croatian history I dare say otherwise. The people who defended Vukovar have put all of us in charge and for that clearly thank them very much. He would even dare say that the government should receive all foreign delegations coming to Croatia in some way, or a large majority of them, in Vukovar and see the world that Croatia was exposed to in the early 1990s. However, I have an impression here not because I quoted the president of the state as saying that this law of integrity would be a dead end, and to God and the declaration that we will then adopt that there will be a shot in the hole. So now we have the law or we're going to have, we're going to have a declaration after that, and I'm afraid we're actually not going to have any effective law or effective declaration. We fear war will not end with absurd accusations that come to Croatia or such laws, but through negotiations, etc. We're not going against unfair laws with absurd charges, but my judgment, conversations, sitting at the table. With who? It is clear to Belgrade, Sarajevo, Podgorica, they are with us or vice versa. However, the question is also why Croatia did not press charges against those who destroyed Vukovar in its own time. Why were we sleeping at that time or was the policy that could be heard when the High Military School "Ban Jelačić" was opened when the President of the Republic of the late Franjo Tudjman himself said at the time if we were to press charges and they could raise against us. Now, we see that the government hasn't given up what I said in the Morning List, but I have the impression that this law is largely a pre-election let's call it a playoff. I think we're getting lost in the waterways as it's called electoral reality. We're doing propaganda, and we knew that the law wouldn't actually bring any effect, no protection to any of those on the list that would go beyond the Republic of Croatia. Three are fundamental reasons by my court why we see there is no euphoria about the law, because Croatian defenders themselves recognized that this famous law, whatever we call it, does not bring them anything. Who, on the other hand, in this country, the ideological charges that came in would not have been dropped? Well, we'd all throw it away, so clearly there's no dilemma. However, this government has brought us, as I said, or the country has brought these people into an inferior position. It's simply in my court can't even be a government function. The government's function is to offer the right solutions to the well-being of its citizens and not to give up if I don't know her that she's right, but to simply move forward, not constantly reverse. But I said this whole play is actually a function of the upcoming election. I also agree with Mr. Buric who said he couldn't pass the the thesis. The minister knows, the president doesn't know. It can't go through. Gentlemen, I have the impression that you knew everything, and you played with both the defenders and the ground. Who in the Justice Department or any other, wouldn't have informed the minister that Mr. Seks's vice-president had been brought up with an indictment? Do you think there's a clerk in a ministry and he'd be at work longer than 24 minutes after he found out? Well, I guess that minister would sooner get to Mr. Seks in Parliament than he'd go to brief Mr. Vekic in Osijek. We see that after these 40 days of hysterizing or 20 doesn't matter, 30, no defender is more relaxed. They all know very well that after these charges, not that they can't go to Trieste, they can't go to Livno either. Not that I can't go to Bregan, I can't go to Slavonski Brod, etc., etc. With one law like this, HDZ's defense population may get something small, but I think a long-term country of such politics can only have damage. But it is easy to say for HDZ, but the damage here is done or done to the Republic of Croatia and let's go now, gentlemen, to people who are not allowed out of the country and say that we are either by this law or the next day by declaration or resolution. I'm convinced it doesn't get you anything. If there was less dancing, singing, the arlauce would probably have more time for Croatia. The third reason, right, almost atrocity of defenders were unjustly accused, which I am deeply convinced of. We all follow what HHO has brought, wrote, Feral, etc., I'm 1001% sure there's nothing to call Mr. Shakespeare, but for one there that's mentioned, not to speak now, but I'm not sure or I wouldn't put my hand in the fire. Not to mention his name because you all know who he's referring to. Finally, we even found out in the end but well I'm not going to say it now, etc., etc. It is clear that war crimes do not go out of date, it is clear that after a law like this, the question is what damage can be done to Croatia, too, perhaps that is the goal. But also, if you'll let me, just quote from "The Vesnik," I don't know if he's, not "The Evening Party," if he's a propaganda piece of crap like some of them said about "The Morning" where he is now, somewhere I have it. Now I'm getting a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79043	Your Honor, I'd like you to say that next time. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79044	I won't, yes, yes. I found it, we found it, it just takes a little time and patience. Serbian processes at the request of Croatia. 29 war crimes cases, 53 persons in the process, 20 war crimes indictees, 13 convicted of war crimes, 5 criminal convictions, etc., etc. And now, in the end, what can a gentleman like this simply or a law like this bring? Whether all of this or this procedure can be questioned in the future, or whether it is someone’s goal to question all of this. Why have we brought ourselves into one of these, as I would say, a blasting simple situation. Here we heard today it's '91. Croatia waged three wars, the one with Milosevic's Serbia, with JNA, absolutely yes, but we heard that it also fought a war with the International Community that recognised us before the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Which the reviewers thought I didn't know about, maybe it's against them, etc., etc. I'm afraid, gentlemen, that with one of these laws, we'll end up turning out to be more foolish than these Serbian indictments or indictments. We sit so much at the table with our neighbours and Serbia, there are a thousand problems between one country and another, not to mention them, but let's not pass a law that we're going to pass in Parliament, the afternoon law of the Parliament, the same target, the same distance, and we can see that the defenders are actually not going to benefit from any of that. One word of policy in the morning, one law, another resolution, the next day something third, and in the end it will all simply realize that we will have one bad policy or rather none of that policy. What must be an insult to these accusing proposals when it is said that some people there on the Croatian side have committed genocide. Genocide, yes, but above whom, is the dominant Croatian nationality of the Vukovar victims, although we know that among the Croats there were Serbs who gave honorable resistance to aggression in Croatia. But once again, I think that some new government or new government will have to solve these problems with the neighbouring country. For the end, it's probably better to take over cases than to hand people over, but perhaps to someone in the interest of this practice, this policy has led us to this, and I'm afraid there won't be a lot of bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79045	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, she's a respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79046	Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr. Cain, it doesn't stand and it's not true your claim that this law is one play. Namely, that's not true. The real play is this your show, the real play is your program for the Kukurik coalition that you presented as true comrades in the Golubinjak forest and that's how you started in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79047	And another correction, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79048	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also correct my colleague Cain's play in that context when he said this law was a play. So this law is an answer and protection for Croatian defenders in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which does not exclude Croatia from doing everything to protect its innocent people anywhere they can. Finally, no one behind this pay phone here, no matter who he is, can judge which indictment has a basis, which there is neither, nor give God by protecting any crime or anyone who has committed it, but should bear in mind that aggression has gone from one country to the country where we live and that at the end of those crimes that have been committed unfortunately, if there were, there would be no such aggression. Therefore, it is not equal to everyone's responsibility and you cannot say about this speaker and judge which indictment has a basis and which person may or may not have... It's inadmissible. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79049	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Davor Mlakar, Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've tried with all due attention to the presentation of the distinguished representative Caine and I must intervene for your unsettled documentation, but also these unsettled thoughts. It's very hard for me to say, but I think you've completely missed out on the subject. You were talking about the provisions of the law without even mentioning the law. I did not refer or defend the provisions of the law that would have happened in the daily newspaper. You quoted two daily newspapers. I don't know what it says, and we haven't talked about that information in this law. But I need to remove any of your suspicions and insinuations that it's a law that's a pre-election trick or a play. It is the law, and I have initially said that it will help and bring the possibility to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia not to respond to provocations or documents that they deliver by their actions by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. You failed to say that and you completely turned the story and meaning of this Law in the other direction. I think we have to stick to the text that's in front of you, and as you've seen, the law is not withdrawn from the procedure, no matter what it says in the daily paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79051	Thank you. I'm sorry, the correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79052	I would ask you to explain to the public what legal effect this Law will produce from this exhibition that you have now made clear to all of us, and to the public. I'm very simply interested. I am correcting the thesis presented by the minister that this law produces an effect that will protect Croatian defenders. In particular, whether by adopting this law, let's say that fellow Shakespeare can go to Brezice for coffee or Nagykaniz for sausages. That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79053	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to the SDP Club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let's really go to the point of trouble. The government's proposal declared the objectives of this proposal to protect its citizens, so citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now, let's see if that's possible, if that's a similar way for the government to protect its citizens from the acts of another state. With probably a good qualification in the light of this Act, the Proposer argues that the laws apply in the sovereign area of each country. We agree with that, but then this law is unsuitable to do what the government declared. Because the laws of Croatia apply only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, what the Constitution set out in the article I think it is the 10th that the Republic of Croatia takes care of its citizens now I will say, no matter where they were, whether a group, whether a national minority or entity outside the Republic of Croatia will be achieved by this law. Because no other country is obliged to implement the acts of the Republic of Croatia. There's something else I want to say. When that is the case, which is how we must conclude that the Republic of Croatia and its policy remain attached to the consistent application of the principle that we have adopted that all crimes should be identified, that they should be sanctioned and that policy has no alternative. If we add this to another important legal fact, it is the legal acts of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the judicial acts of the Republic of Serbia, the proposer claims that, on the judicial acts of the Republic of Serbia, then the Republic of Croatia reacts to judicial acts by political act, by a political act which is a law which is the expression of political will always, and we have agreed in Croatia that the democratic principle has been shared by the authorities. And I think that principle must remain. Therefore, acts which are judicial should be reacted to by the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. Another important reason for this is in Article 29. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I do not know what item may be the 4th or last hard constitution and we must stick to it that illegally obtained evidence is not valid in the court proceedings. And that is why the demands that came from the Republic of Serbia are rejected, and if it is illegally obtained evidence from our citizens who have been in camps in the Republic of Serbia or who have been obtained from the JNA that was declared to us at the time of the Homeland War as an aggressor army, it is even more reason for our judicial authorities to collect all this as an argument for talks with Serbia on these problems, for discussions on these problems. I have to say that, too. The Republic of Serbia is indeed leading its own policy through indictments against citizens of all countries of the former Yugoslavia, all states, and that is the problem. Article 3 is replaced by the following: The law of the Republic of Serbia, but let us not forget that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to process, determine and sanction war crimes committed by its citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That is what I would say the highest interest of both Serbia and Croatia. Of course, it is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have the Republic of Serbia prosecuted by the perpetrators of war crimes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this is a matter of discussion, but for God's sake, we cannot regulate it, because our law does not even work in the Republic of Serbia, it is indisputable if I add again that the definition of the Republic of Croatia is that all crimes must be identified and sanctioned, then the topic for discussion is already defined. I must mention without any major politicisation that the government is also addressing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the date of the admission of charges from the Republic of Serbia by compromising the law itself. Namely, none of the average educated citizens of the Republic of Croatia will accept the fact that the government does not know what came into the government if the act was received by its ministry. Well, part of the government is the Ministry. Government and acting like a collective body. It's like if in some company's service records came in writing or an act, then the director said don't forgive me I don't know about it. Legal security is coming down completely. The date of delivery to the Assembly's service log was delivered to the Assembly. I therefore think that another element is very important that the law does not achieve its effects and is causing possible bad consequences, because the Republic of Croatia has international obligations that it has made to agreements, whether according to its neighbours or to international institutions. And we have to be there for a reason they warn us very sensitive, because we have to be on high democratic standards when we make commitments and then implement them. We'll have to spend it later. In this respect, the responsibility of a country in international legal transport is assessed. There are still questions that this law has not answered, nor can it answer. He can't answer, because if we stick to the principle, and we have to stick to the principle of power-sharing, then it's very important for us, and we have to insist on our neighbours, and also in the Republic of Serbia that independent bodies assess whether there's something criminal, especially if it's a war crime. This is the principle that stands before us for several reasons, from our acts from the Constitution to the international commitments. Of course, I think it is important to point out that Serbia has a certain policy, leads a certain policy through the accusing of Croatian citizens and is looking for its own interests, but we cannot because Serbia is looking for its own interests to say that we will not cooperate on the things we have taken over. It is our interest for Serbia to process its citizens, no matter where they were committed or when they committed war crimes, and that is what it is, as is our interest to process our citizens without saying political decisions. So let us return to the trust of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the judicial authorities, the state's attorney's office, let us call on what the Constitution says is that unlawfully obtained evidence cannot be used in the proceedings and that this is the reason for the rejection of acts, I think it is quite clear that it is an unfavourable attempt to protect the defenders of the Republic of Croatia in this way, because the law will not eliminate future cases, possible cases of Veljko Maric, neither Dr. Bosanac nor Purda, because as soon as they come out of the Republic of Croatia citizens who, in whom the indictment or the indictment or anything can be or can be found in the same situation as did Purda or Vesna Bosniana. I think it is very important to say whether the government policy is there, whether it is timely, timely, whether it is leading an active policy in protecting the interests of its citizens, especially the defenders to whom this law is addressed, whether it is true or not, and whether the portals are correct or not, they are saying that the government has given up the adoption of this law and is going with the proposal for a declaration. So we must conclude that politics, state policy, national policy in the protection of national interests, especially the defender cannot be formulated from today to tomorrow. We must work to protect the defenders and every citizen, his integrity, whether he is now with residence in the Republic of Croatia or any other country, and this can only be achieved when it is done, when the problem is detected, and when he sits down with the neighbours and discusses and determines the circumstances under which Croatia was waged by the Homeland Defence War. This circumstance and our commitment, the principle views should not be so expressed in a hasty procedure established or could harm the interests of the Republic of Croatia. It's important to point out, not to think about election results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79055	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So speaking of the extent of the integrity of the legal acts or which these are worthless legal acts by the proposal of this law, the esteemed colleague incorrectly stated that it was only the integrity of the acts of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, it is nothing in terms of absolute integrity, so without any legal effect, all the legal acts of the former JNA and its legal bodies, the judicial authorities of the former SFRY and the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia relating to the Homeland War, and legal acts in this sense relatively zeroity are contained in paragraph 2 in terms of exceptions and in the sense of exception that they can be accepted if they are in accordance with the legal standards of the Republic of Serbia and those criminal-legal standards which are already in conformity with the legal standards which apply to the EU. So, there's an exception to these legal acts in terms of relative zeroness that you've forgotten, and you've wrongly stated that in this sense relative zeroness
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79057	Thank you very much. Time's up. And another correction to the incorrect quote, Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Leko, making all the wrong arguments against this law, I quote: "Serbia wants to prosecute its citizens, its citizens in its territory no matter where they did something." Croatia also wants to process its own I don't know no matter what they have done. However, this is about Croatian citizens and Croatian territory, and I think it is entirely your claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79059	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79060	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When a law or any other act is passed in this House, then, in my opinion, it is necessary to have all the necessary information to do so. And the thing about this bill is that we don't have that information. We have countless misinformations, we have countless what are semi-information, and the representatives and the public have no information. We were denied the basic information about how the thing started and why it started. The matter began in the context of regional co-operation and the matter began in the context of cooperation with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The matter began because one part of the people is inaccessible to the Croatian judiciary and is on charges of Croatian justice. The matter began with one part of the people on the Croatian judiciary's indictments, and it should not be on the Croatian judiciary's charges. And it was thought that one of the best ways to solve this issue was to make all those who should answer, who should be available to the Croatian judiciary, not to find shelter in neighbouring countries. That all those who are not responsible for the crimes should not be on our charges. Thus, co-operation between the Croatian Prosecutor's Office and the Serbian Attorney's Office or between the Croatian Attorney's Office and the Serbian Prosecutor's Office began. And for these reasons, a deal was concluded in 2006. And the deal came as a result of the fact that we already have several indictments brought before the war crimes tribunal in Serbia for crimes committed in the Republic of Croatia on charges brought by the State's Attorney General, which the Croatian lawyers sent to Serbia. They studied them, saw their foundation, complemented them, and judged them on the basis of what they had received from us and on the basis of what they had received themselves. Did we object to that? We didn't. They had victims who said there might be a greater punishment, but we had no objection. Neither have I heard that someone here has passed the law not to accuse those who are innocent. Who passed the law to protect Edith, Ernst Raden of Benkovec, who had their career destroyed because someone had filed charges with them? They were sitting in jail, he was sitting in jail. His career as a basketball coach at the Thessaloniki Handball Club was ruined, and he was in great harm's way. Who brought the law to protect him, who talked about it? Who asked who installed that indictment? It's nobody. So what we're doing right now, we're actually getting things back to square one. We are going towards that that tomorrow Serbia can say okay if you think you will not punish those who should be punished then we have no obligation to punish those who are in the area of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of your accusations. If you promote the principle of impunity, what can you expect us to follow the principle of punishment? This isn't about stealing a chicken, this isn't about trespassing into someone else's house and alienating other people's property, this is about international law. And in international law, colleagues and colleagues, especially in war crimes matters, we all need to respect international law. We are all obliged to respect international law. Now, as far as specific cases are concerned, we've been talking about this for a very long time, and this list first appeared at a time when werewolve counsel Purda was in trouble and arrived in Bosnian custody. Then the talks between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice started, between the state attorney of one and the state prosecutor of the other, and it was agreed to exchange documents, there are those who know it better than I do, and I'm asked to say how do I know it. And I mostly know from the papers, and I know a little bit about how it happened because it was in my best interest that those conversations were being held. And those of you who know, they're accusing us, me, the president of the state, I don't know who else, that we're getting information from where, of course I'm supposed to get information from Belgrade, I'm not thinking. I read it in our paper and I followed it from the work of the state's attorney and our ministry and our politics as colleagues and colleagues. Now, these indictments or indictments that have come to nothing until the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia takes as an integral part of its material, or until the courts or prosecutors in Serbia send it to international legal traffic by Interpol. If any of this is done, my knowledge is that none of this is done. Something that should not have been done has been done, which is why no one asks Minister Bosnjakovic how he could have gone with one of these charges to one of the possibly accused, is that his job? Isn't that the state's attorney's job? So we're passing a law on that it's useless, and it's nothing in itself, because it's not where it's supposed to be. And if we didn't pass this law if we didn't do anything, if we didn't agree to it, for the Croatian judiciary, that would mean nothing. Why? Because such an agreement has been reached and I know it has been reached. The agreement has been reached to say what it has grounds for continuing to process it with the necessary collection of evidence. What has no evidence like in the case of Purd and Bosnian, it's nothing and nothing. So for most people maybe for all people I don't know it was supposed to be so solved. And those who say that we hold the hostages most of those 42 are held hostage, held hostage and many others who aren't there. Because people will start thinking so who knows what they're cooking there, like the hostages were avoiding the Serbs against whom thousands of indictments were filed, so they thought they were all trying to create the impression that they were all. Was that supposed to happen? It's not. Is this what this is supposed to be? You don't have to. Like you and I and my club, we want people who are Croatian defenders who are innocent, who are pure of heart and wanted to fight with honor for what they believed they didn't answer to anyone, and that no one insulted them or humiliated them. Whoever doesn't believe it doesn't believe it more than I do, and I believe it. And that's how I'm going to act, and I'm going to come up with this idea, but ladies and gentlemen, with this law, we're going to only deepen legal uncertainty, with a declaration that we hear the government is adopting today, and that they're going to refer it to the Parliament, we might be able to create a space for the law to withdraw and find a solution exactly as we need to find a solution, which is that what there is no basis, what has been done against the law, often people mention that they've been giving testimony under duresssion, it's quite clear that it can't be taken as valid evidence. It is clear, and no one can take such a thing or should take it as valid evidence. I'm saying what's for me colleagues and what I'm willing to accept or defend. And when some colleagues here as a colleague Leco says put it back into the legal framework, then that's the right answer to this, only from the political sphere. The political sphere was already the fact that the minister of justice took and went to one of the people who was on it, is neither a state lawyer nor anyone else in charge of it but the minister of justice did it, why? It's not his job, and we're arguing whether the minister knew if they came or didn't come, whether he should have informed someone or not, that's false stories, that's false questions. So, we will, if we adopt this law, and we will not support it, not because I would like to, and what I would like, if any of the innocent people come under any kind of doubt, let alone the charges, because I know what that means, I've been doing it for years. Mr. Miljevic of the Clay is falsely accused and withdraws from prisons, courts and we do not do so. We're proving how bad their courts are, look at what they're like in these things, unfortunately. We don't mind the fact that we haven't yet determined who's responsible for 20 people and some people killed in Vukovar before the war conflict started. Who took them off the street? Who took them from the bread bag store? Who took them from the house out of bed? Someone knows who did it, I don't know, but it's not my fault these 42, it's gonna be my fault that the investigating authorities, the police and the state's attorneys who are guilty, and I will, and we can do it without Serbia if we want to. Therefore, there are some things that we need alone, that we can do alone, and there are some things like things that those who have escaped through it are not all who have escaped, they are individuals, they are some people who have tarnished their hands, and they think that it is their refuge, that Bosnia can be their refuge or America, as it is not America's refuge for them neither will Serbia be theirs. But then we have to answer as it says international law, which is by cooperation, by an agreement that we already have, by an agreement that in spring, late spring this year confirmed between the two ministries. And finally, a colleague and a colleague, there are people here who know it better than I do. I'm a congressman who, by nature, I need to know more than I know about the things I talk about. But they know very well the old Latin saying that in Croatian history is often mentioned in different situations, and we are now applying it in the opposite direction "Regnam regno non praescrit leges", "Kinge of the Kingdom does not prescribe laws".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79061	Thank you. And now we have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79062	Thank you very much. So I think that it must be corrected by a truly incorrect quote from a respected colleague who said that this law promotes the principle or the principle of impunity. That's absolutely incorrect. This law only regulates exactly how we come to know if we are to say so under quotes that someone has committed a certain crime. And from the sphere of agreement, of conversation, of information like this or of such a whole problem, it translates into law, therefore into regulations. This law does not promote any principle of impunity and cannot serve anyone to exculpate him from criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79063	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79064	You're telling fellow Pupovci that these charges that have come to nothing in themselves. No, they're not. You're wrong. Why didn't they? Because you see these indictments that came, which I created as Deputy Prime Minister in '92. In the year 28.9.1992, our Intelligence Service came up with these charges, where 44 of us are accused before the Belgrade Military Court of genocide by military prosecutor JNA 10.8.1992. 42. ... And that war crimes court in Belgrade since 27.7.2011 delivers to the Serbian Ministry of Justice... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] The Ministry of Justice of Croatia,... The second court in Belgrade for war crimes sets up a prosecutor's log... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79065	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79066	... And two. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Please allow me one second. ... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79067	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin, he says.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I picked up the tile. But here, a number of incorrect allegations were in the presentation of Mr. Pupovac probably so perhaps not knowing the legal procedure itself, but it is certainly a completely wrongly interpreted agreement of the prosecutions of the two states and that proceedings are being conducted in the Republic of Serbia for war crimes based on the Croatian indictment. That's incorrect. Evidence was exchanged in the agreement, materials were sent to the foundation of the RS, or the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, to file charges. Here is another situation where, through international legal aid, aid was sought to bring the indictment, there would be an appeal, response or non-response to the indictment that it is becoming powerful in the Republic of Serbia and Serbia would continue to pursue criminal proceedings against Croatian citizens for a criminal offence committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's what this is about. That's two completely different things.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79069	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79070	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of a law on the integrity of certain judicial acts by former JNA, former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is symbolic that today in this assembly where we celebrated an hour ago the 20th anniversary of the decision of the Croatian Parliament which, from that day on, Croatia is breaking up all the state-level bindings on which, together with the other republics and provinces, it formed the former Yugoslavia, on the day we are proud of our 20 years of independence, we are discussing a law that we are actually defending against the re-aggression of this time of legal aggression. On 25 June 1991, this Croatian Parliament adopted a Constitutional Decision on sovereignty and independence, a Declaration on the declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, which made it clear that only the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament apply in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and only those federal laws which are not put out of force by the decision of the same Croatian Parliament. As of 8 October 1991, the decision to break up the national law bindings took away the legitimacy and legality of all the authorities of Yugoslavia and thus the authorities of the JNA. The parliament also concluded that armed aggression has been carried out by the Republic of Serbia and the JNA and that the JNA is declared as an aggressor and occupation army and must leave the Republic of Serbia immediately. In October 2000, this Parliament also adopted a Declaration of Homeland War, which confirmed that the Republic of Croatia had conducted a fair, legitimate, defensive and liberating war in which it defended itself against major Serb aggression within its state borders, and also found that it was for the sake of the dignity of the Homeland War, but also for all Croatian defenders that the Croatian judiciary was obliged to prosecute all cases of individual war crimes, serious violations of humanitarian law and all other crimes committed in aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the armed rebellion and during the Homeland War. By decision of the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the arbitration panel of the Peace Conference in Yugoslavia on 8 October 1991, it was undoubtedly established as the day when the Republic of Croatia, in terms of international law, became a sovereign and independent state. This has certainly made the Republic of Croatia fully sovereign in the area of criminal law. Unfortunately, by adopting the Law in 2003 and its 2010 novel, the Republic of Croatia introduced the principle of universality in a very strange way in its criminal law, completely inappropriately modern criminal and international law. So I think in the legislation unseen, not expanding my jurisdiction for the trial of certain crimes generally beyond my borders, but in the precise territory of the Republic of the former Yugoslavia, or the SFRY, thereby giving itself the role of supremacist and archbishops in that territory. And now we come to the conclusion that exactly the basis of this law these days comes the charges of the Serbian military prosecution for war crimes based on or prescribed indictments of the Yugoslav People's Army military prosecution, based on statements and evidence extorted by our defenders and civilians imprisoned in Serb camps, indictments against Croatian citizens now on the territory of the Croatian state for crimes committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Just to prevent this future, it is necessary to pass this law that we are discussing in order to protect our sovereignty and our citizens from the prosecution of the judicial authorities of another country. This law therefore determines itself, and thus I answer the question whether we are politically responding to the judiciary. No, we do not respond politically to the judiciary, we respond politically to politics because the law adopted by the Republic of Serbia is politics. Lawmaking is one country's policy. We answer to this law by law to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and to protect our citizens. What did we say with this law and what are we protecting? Therefore, we have said that by the entry into force of this law, all legal acts of the former Yugoslav People's Army, its judicial authorities, the judicial bodies of the former SFRY and the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia relating to the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia which are suspected, accused, sentenced citizens of the Republic of Croatia of criminal offences against the values protected by international law of Chapter XIII. The Penal Code so that these 19 crimes are here and numbered by this law. Furthermore, in relation to the acts of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 2 provides for relative futility, so we prescribe this law that absolutely zero acts are former JNA and SFRY, but the acts of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia are relatively harmful. Therefore, this paragraph 1 does not apply to judicial authorities when they determine that they comply with the legal standards laid down in the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. The law also states that only the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia may, before the Croatian judicial authorities, prosecute Croatian citizens for the offences referred to in paragraph 1. The law. It is important to stress that this law does not in any way call into question the enforcement of obligations and co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court. Article 3(3) provides that the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia will not act on the pleas of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia for legal aid in criminal cases relating to the offences referred to in paragraph 1. The law. I should immediately remove the doubt that this law does not in any way violate any of these provisions of the Convention to which the Republic of Croatia has joined and which we have confirmed in international legal aid because in certain cases under which they would fall, these cases of the State may also refuse to provide legal assistance. There is one more thing to say here, that this law does not endanger and threaten the further implementation of the agreement between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia and the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the clear commitment of the Republic of Croatia to consistently, objectively and impartially prosecute and judge the perpetrators of war crimes, regardless of the nationality of the perpetrators and victims, has been demonstrated many times. Croatia is very well aware of this, so perhaps Serbia will one day do so, Croatia has not only audited all its indictments from the early '90s and the European Commission, which has been supervised by progress towards objective, impartial, effective processing of war crimes not only during the monitoring of the OSCE and the European Commission, but also in a way that only the prosecution can, if it determines new circumstances and new evidence, request the renewal of the proceedings, and that it is not necessary for that renewal of the procedure to wait for the extradition of the convicted person, extradition detention, etc., of course, because we wanted to correct in some cases and what you said, and that some of the charges or some rulings from the early 1990s are not really legal in the rule of law. Of course, all of this is not done by either the European Union or the OSCE or the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent the prosecution of war crimes, but rather vice versa, so that the trials are conducted impartially, objectively, according to the highest legal standards of modern criminal law. The Republic of Croatia has proved during accession negotiations that it is now meeting those high standards. She proved herself able to prosecute war crimes independently and impartially. After the arrest of our defence attorney Purda, following talks between the two ministries and prosecutors, we expected the issue of disputed Serbian indictments to be resolved precisely in such a way that the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office would take all charges from the early 1990s, revise them, determine whether these laws were obtained legally or illegally, evidence legally or illegally, to see whether they fit the standards of modern criminal law and then withdraw them themselves. It is incorrect as the war crimes prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia said yesterday that they can't make those accusations, so now they don't know what, but they have to hand them over in order to do anything with them. I can certainly, because the prosecution is a party to the proceedings and until the proceedings are completed it can drop the indictment at any time and we expected it from the Republic of Serbia. But unfortunately, that didn't happen. I note that the law once again does not affect the co-operation of the two states and the co-operation of the two prosecutors in the effective processing of war crimes on both sides. Namely, the agreement applies, and you said exactly that the agreement occurred in 2006 because war crimes perpetrators had dual citizenship, affecting their countries and knowing the constitutional inability of mutual extradition thought they were protected. In order not to do so, the prosecutions concluded an agreement that they had committed to exchanging evidence that they owned to each other. Therefore, under this agreement, if the prosecution in Serbia had acted, these evidence would have been provided to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia where this could have been considered a criminal application where the State's Attorney's Office would then consider whether there were grounds for prosecution or not to continue or initiate it or not. But he wouldn't ask for these charges to be served through legal aid. And I therefore believe that we must pass this law in order to protect the sovereignty and our citizens, and Serbia in its territory should deal with the processing of its citizens for war crimes committed and those in Serbian camps in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as those in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and Croatia will, as so far, identify impartially and objectively, prosecute the perpetrators of war crimes in its area available to it. Unfortunately, we have an agreement with the D.A.'s office, but the D.A.'s agreement didn't come true. For example, this Agreement states that participants will be notified to each other within 30 days of their signature of the items referred to in point 1. Agreement. It has been as long as five years, and we see Croatian citizens coming under indictments they have no idea about. Therefore, if the provisions of the Agreement were met, all these cases would have been known long ago and further discussions of prosecutors, states and, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia, all these cases could be resolved. Here's what I said, because of everything I said, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79071	Thank you very much. I am merely notifying that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 16.10 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now we have three corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79072	Thank you very much. Dear MP Lovrin said the bill was a reaction of the Republic of Croatia to the law passed by the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia passed its laws in 2003, so they changed in 2004, fifth, seventh and 2009. If it's a reaction, then she's too late. But the entry into force is 1.1.2010. But he was brought in in 2009. It entered into force on 1.1.2010. However, the reaction was delayed, and the problem is that our state bodies, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, signed agreements precisely by giving importance to the Serbian state authorities on the issue of these charges and thereby additionally burdened us as one party to be free of the burden of these charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79073	Thank you very much. The second correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79074	These are all public debates that are not realistic to expect, but in the Assembly any such debates as my colleague Lovrin had, regardless of the differences in arguments, we could easily come to some possible common point of view. It is true, fellow Lovrin, that Serbia has not carried out a review in this case, but it is also true that this ultimately depends on our State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, Serbia's sending and doing for the Croatian Attorney's Office is binding only when it accepts it as the indictment proposal as well as for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79075	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79076	Comrade Lovrin, you spoke about the agreement between Mr Vukčević and Mr Bajic's state attorneys but you either forgot something or you didn't want to say it. It is, in fact, a correction that the agreement was made for persons hiding in one state or another, so they are not available, so it is. No, it's incorrect. That agreement I have here says that they're being tried, delivering data on crimes committed in one country or another. So I ask you what crimes were committed in Serbia? That's what the Agreement says, Mrs. Lovrin, that's what the Agreement says. And so, you're not that. You're still saying that, just a little bit, the correction is an incorrect quote this month for a notice to our state's attorney's office of persons who are suspected of writing this for genocide even.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79077	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79078	Wait a minute. One fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79079	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79080	On 10 January 2011 I had in my hands... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79081	Bring the end, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79082	Here if you want me to give you that list.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79083	Let's clear this up later. Now it's the turn of the HNS club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79084	Dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the most difficult forms of warfare is certainly a special psychological war. With what's done on the battlefield, with what's done in the background, the worst effect is on the consciousness of the opponent's psychological war. And there is no doubt that the prosecution by the judicial authorities of the former JNA, by the former SFRY, but also by our judiciary in one part of the case, was in function. This has already been demonstrated by the very practice that many cases that have been dealt with explicitly later have been revised, withdrawn, but fates have been destroyed, the names have been defiled, because these people, these living people, our fellow citizens have had to pay the price of some more ideas. It's clear they're in '91. and '92. the years of the judicial bodies of JNA multiplying charges against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that they therefore tried to relativise among others and the crimes committed by people in their uniforms and on behalf of their party, and there is no dispute. But there is also no dispute that such a situation can only be cleared by respecting international law, respecting the ideas that lead to regional cooperation in these issues, and sharing information. One of the hardest days of my life was a few years ago when a defense attorney in my town wanted to kill himself. He poured gas and took a lighter. And after a few hours of convincing him to give up, he wanted me to come talk to him. The reason was that he was wrongly accused and that investigators from a police department started talking to people from his unit, intending to have a conversation with him about committing a crime, if I remember correctly in Vinkovci. The very fact that an innocent man is being prosecuted by this kind of investigation, the very fact that someone is persecuting you in this particular case just to talk to you, but you don't have enough information behind it, humiliates a man. But on my question did you really do it, when he said no, I agreed to go with him, I was present when he came to talk to police investigators, of course outside the room, because I wanted to share his fate at that time. A man under PTSD lacked hair to kill himself, and thank God he didn't. And that's why I think I have the right to say that it seems to me that I can recognize how innocent people feel about who they're going against, even if they're completely out of line. But on the other hand, whoever's doing this, and whoever puts it into a policy car, is involved in a special war. We are faced as one of the sides of the Homeland War with all the possible consequences that war as mankind's greatest evil brings, including that our citizens are exposed to these forms of pressure. But there's no other way to get that burden off their backs than to stick to the principle that whoever committed a war crime must and responds, and whoever didn't have to be allowed to prove their innocence, and to remove that burden and that drama from his life forever. As it is possible to do so, it is possible to do so through a whole series of procedures, including what two prosecutors, or lawyers, have signed, where it has allowed a whole series of people who have been inaccessible to the Croatian judiciary from 2006 to today. Should it be recalled that precisely because two Croatian lawyers cooperated with Serbia, 29 cases were filed against a total of 53 persons, so persons who are not available to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So far, 20 indictments have been filed, courts have reached 20 verdicts, of which 8 are abiding. For us, it is in our interest that whoever commits the crime must respond sooner or later, and that there is no country in which he can hide himself, so that she and Serbia, as well as in the interest of each victim, the name of the perpetrator of every crime is revealed and punished. The way the government prepared this proposal, how it placed it in public and how it brings it before the Parliament and how it allows public speculation about its fate to be extremely unacceptable. First of all, this law was meant to defend the prime minister if it was so important, and so to raise him to that level of importance and long-termness. At the very least, the Minister of Justice. They're not here. Is that some kind of message? Is it also some kind of message that the government is considering the possibility of making a declaration, and that the bill will ultimately be withdrawn from the vote, and that ultimately it will not be decided at all. Do we need that? Did this theme deserve to be a pre-election topic? Did this topic deserve to be a reason to go three steps backwards compared to what we have achieved in the last 5 or 6 years not only on issues of regional cooperation but on issues of strengthening the role of the Republic of Croatia as a stabilising factor in the region? I want, my party wants, and I'm sure you want Croatia to be a leader in everything that's good, in everything that's positive and to have others manage us, to be their motives, idols or at least to encourage them to be better. And whenever we go one step, two or three backwards, it hurts. Should we need what we have achieved in 5 or 6 years of running a systematic foreign cooperation policy in the region now open talks with a neighbouring country that actually means a lack of conversation, a lack of cooperation. Is that a consistent policy? Are we going to compromise national interests in some way because of pre-election interests? So why do we agree to this story that this approach is to protect the defenders and their dignity, their dignity? Well, we know, we know very well that this document formed as a law and a proposal that is ahead of us if it is adopted it will have no effect other than negative. None of the Croatian defenders, from Croatian citizens who fear that the propaganda machinery of JNA, SFRY or Serbia has placed him in a circle of potential war criminals after such an act will be able to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia. Let's be honest and let's say that to our people. If this law was in force before the Purd case, Purd would not have come home. That's the problem. If this law was in force at the time of Mrs. Vesna Bosnian's charge to remove that burden from her? If a state attorney and his deputy explicates at a session of the Justice and Public Justice Committee say this law will make it difficult to work and that it will certainly stop a whole series of cooperation jobs, isn't that enough for us to think about what we're doing? The damage can be enormous, and the benefits are unfortunately none. Who can guarantee after passing this law that any of the people involved in the Homeland War will be safe when crossing the state border? Who gives that guarantee? No one. We're clouding things. See what the proposal for this law implies in its article 1. – the degree of effect of this law determines that they are harmful and without legal effect, and states further and then says legal acts of the Republic of Serbia relating to the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia. And aren't the charges and convictions in the case of the prosecution of war crimes committed in Croatia convicted before Serbian courts in the last six years, so aren't those legal acts? Shall we say we don't respect them? What happens tomorrow when there's a new indictment? We say on the one hand to the State's Attorney's Office you're wrong, you'll still be able to cooperate. What he'll cooperate on when any piece of paper he gets in connection with in the beginning is worthless to the legislator of this law. If all that has been brought by the judicial authorities of JNA, SFRY and the Republic of Serbia in relation to the Homeland War is done, then any such document that comes in the form of legal aid applications or requests the State's Attorney's office to do the reconnaissances must be ignored because it is legally zero. Unfortunately, the law is legally harmful. Nothing will help us, it will cloud the water, it won't protect anyone, it will create a pre-election vision that the Croatian Parliament and the Government are taking care of Croatian defenders, and then the hip when the new Purda case is repeated, when anyone crosses the border, and when they bring him in because his Republic of Serbia did not allow him to give up the normal procedure that his State's Attorney's Office has been doing the necessary actions, exchange information and allow the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia to drop his indictment. So what do we do? Then who's going to be guilty? Then who will go and bring Purda home? Will you who propose this law take that responsibility upon yourself? Unfortunately, you won't, because if you had that kind of responsibility you wouldn't have even proposed a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79085	Thank you very much. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79086	Thank you very much, Vice President. With this... By speaking a series of inaccuracy, my colleague Beus said, so it's the pre-election interests of this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's mostly incorrect. So would you, colleague Beus, be pleased that Croatian citizens of such charges are still humiliated without any evidence of the indictment being sent without evidence, so there is no evidence
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79087	Don't throw it away. Don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79088	Croatian citizens defended their home, so they were not aggressors, the aggressor came here. So these are charges without proof. You're saying you're simply accusing Croatian citizens without any evidence? Well, that's your post-mortem story that could've made a dead man cry, and where not us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79089	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's absolutely incorrect that Mr. Beuss's claim that the damage will be enormous and incorrectible. The damage was done to Croatian defenders and Croatian citizens because international law and international laws were not respected. The UN Convention of 24 October 1970 was not respected. The Republic of Serbia could not use and press charges against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the execution of acts that were in the Republic of Serbia that were extorted by harassment, beating, and the threat of murder. Thus Serbia must have joined and violated all international standards and intervened in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. The independence of the Republic of Croatia also allows the judicial system to be independent and thus should be acted on. Your desire is as if you want to continue to be the center of power in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79091	Thank you very much. Petar Mlinarić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect assumption that this law does not protect us Croatian defenders, did Serbia deceive all of us to accuse our defenders that they are criminals, tanks went from Belgrade to Vukovar, Ovcara is in Vukovar, over 3,000 were killed only in Vukovar, all crimes and aggressors. A part of Serbian life was killed in Vukovar, which is now required to be tried by Croats. Therefore, we waited calmly for the tanks, we did not see if we were going to save lives, and sir I would ask you that your friends were killed, that your city was destroyed and almost the whole of Croatia and now, in the end, the Croats are to answer, so who would be responsible for excessive shelling, when someone mentioned in Vukovar a million grenades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79093	We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79094	Thank you very much. So the colleague incorrectly said that this Law and the basis of this Law would automatically question the co-operation of the two state attorneys, and he incorrectly interpreted the position of the representative of the state's attorney at the meeting of the Justice Committee. In that sense, I think we should re-quote the provision of paragraph 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And that is correct not to be politicised because these are professional and legal terms but it is important to correctly quote them that we know what this is about, and it is that the exceptional integrity of the legal acts of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia does not apply to acts for which the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia therefore find that they meet the legal standards laid down in the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. And which would mean otherwise we agree with those legal acts that are contrary to our criminal or procedural criminal law. This second interpretation would be this second paragraph of Article 1. Therefore, clear provisions of the law are incorrectly quoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79095	Thank you very much. It is now up to the correcting of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nevio Štić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79096	I thank Mr. Vice President, I want to make it right, however, it should take a lot of allegations from Mr. MPs who says this debate is not consistent and damages relations between Croatia and Serbia but at least I expected it and I would like to correct it at least to say that Serbia has taken the right and taken charges in the former Yugoslavia on the basis of the 91st military prosecution. And the fact says that in at least a few parts it has violated the international law of first territoriality, universality and the principle of general law where the Republic of Serbia has not acted with the intention that exists in the universal principle is to protect the interests of the international community. I therefore think that Croatia needs to point out and stand up with this law in order to protect its dignity and prevent such aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79097	Thank you. And finally, respected Vladimir Seks vice president at home and parliamentary representative, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79098	Thank you very much. There is no claim from counterpart Beus that the government is speculating with the withdrawal of this law, the morning list, the morning list portal today has placed that misinformation that the government has made a decision on the withdrawal of this law in a narrow cabinet. It's one morning list diversion known for such and similar moves. The second is your claim that this law endangers regional co-operation. Do you think that this regional co-operation should be based on respect and recognition of judicial aggression on Croatia and that Croatian defenders should go to detention, in Belgrade, to go and accept indictments and trials. So there's no way to threaten regional co-operation with that. And third, you keep forgetting what has been pointed out several times that there is an item 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Exceptionally, the acts of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia if they comply with the legal standards of the Croatian Criminal Law mean that if Serbia has accused and if it judges the executioners of Ovčara or Lovas, it will be recognised if the trials are correct in legal standards, it is a crucial difference to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79099	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. I'd like to ask you to give me a sign, because this is how you do it. I don't really see it. All right, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I, as a representative of the Croatian Parliament, will support this bill not because I believe it will help Croatian defenders, that it will help the captured practically kidnapped Velja Marić, but because I see in him hope that there will be a change of one policy of cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, which is an unusual place used by the Republic of Serbia to achieve its national interests and the foundation of using these charges. These charges are not the only ones, and that should be said openly in Croatia. There are several hundred indictments in Serbia against Croatian defenders in processes as well as this one. But what Croatia actually did wrong, Croatia allowed Serbia to gain their indictments in importance through co-operation between the two justice ministries. That was Croatia's big mistake. Croatia has made several mistakes through agreements between Croatian justice ministers first Shimonovic and then Bosnjakovic with Serbia's justice minister. And just through those agreements, their indictments were strengthened. Croatia also made a mistake there, and it was equally wrong to allow Serbian investigative bodies to examine Vukovar heroin on Croatian soil, Vesna Bosnianac. Due to such conditions that it did not agree to before the 1st World War Serbia, World War I broke out because Serbia then felt it was a threat to the sovereignty of a state. And we agreed to that, our government agreed to those decisions that led ultimately to a situation like this. Of course, this should be rejected, but it should be much stronger, one diplomatic pressure needed to change Serbia's behaviour towards the Republic of Croatia. What could he be like? The declaration, however, and we missed to take the opportunity and accept the declaration that I submitted to the Croatian Assembly on the position and protection of the Croatian national minority in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. With what explanation? That it is necessary to take account of the current political situation of the Republic of Serbia in a wider and narrow environment as well as the trend of approaching the accession of the Republic of Serbia in this context, certainly a significant issue of regulated and upcoming bilateral relations with the countries in the environment, particularly with the Republic of Serbia. It's a mistake. We need adequate diplomatic means to respond, we can threaten the introduction of a visa regime for Serbian citizens. By insisting on changing their behavior, not allowing them to virtually vary in such practices to strengthen their position and thus lead us into a situation that we lose weight. And there's one more question to ask. Our top state officials have already talked about how Croatia will, once it becomes an EU member, do everything it can to make Serbia a member of the EU as soon as possible. And how in this case it will treat Croatian defenders who will be indicted in Serbian courts and will be subject to indictments and requests for arrest on the basis of a European arrest warrant that will be binding on both countries. So the last time is for Croatia to change its policy and bilateral relations with the Republic of Serbia and thus protect itself from these charges. This process will otherwise continue until we ourselves have to arrest Croatian defenders again, which is unacceptable. Croatia simply needs to change its policy in relations with the Republic of Serbia as a way to protect its national interests from the real existing judicial aggression. And in that light in response to judicial aggression, I believe this law should be supported. Not because it will allow the protection of Croatian defenders, it will not, but Croatia should respond to judicial aggression. That's what I want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79101	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79102	Well, here's to respecting the good part of what my colleague said. I have to say that we need to correct this. Croatia has strengthened its indictments by negotiating with Serbian judicial authorities. These are not Serbia's indictments, these are the charges of JNA. And Serbia seems to have continued the tradition of JNA fighting Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79103	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79104	I didn't get a chance to reply to this last sentence of yours, the JNA charges. The Republic of Serbia's Supreme Court in Belgrade writes nicely. Now, is that the JNA court or the Republic of Serbia, I don't know. And I have a list of 44, but I wouldn't want to say those names that were primarily defended by Eastern Slavonia, so Vukovar, Bor's settlement and the area of our Danube. What Mr. Srb said earlier, it is true that we are actually agreements with the Republic of Serbia that signed lightly with some meatballs in Belgrade or something like that, the ministers of the judiciary, and then in 2006 we are state lawyers or prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia Vladimir Vukkovic and our Mr. Mladen Bajic, who writes that data, documents are being delivered, exchange of evidence. I have here a document from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is not the case that the indictments are delivered, but rather the information on which the charges may be brought on the basis of which they may be brought on the ground, i.e. to make a request to another State with which the agreement was signed to bring charges. Unfortunately, it wasn't done that way, but it went straight through with the charges against these 44 charges for years. Mr. Shakespeare himself said he'd known since '92. A year. I was talking about it and it was published in the Evening List in January this year. But given such agreements, I would say incompetently agreeing or irresponsible to our defenders, I would read one song because it is popular in the Assembly these days to read songs. It's short, not as long as Minister Milinovic. The song is Mira Vukojevic who lived in Dubrovnik at the time of the war, and it says and is called "Note". "Croatians should not accuse the world, they are accusing themselves. It took years of practice, centuries, thousands of years, thousands of years of training. They must ask the world for everything not to forget their slavery." Unfortunately, the song is very appropriate or appropriate as it can be said in these moments when the County Court itself in Zagreb and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia express an unambiguous explanation for the verdict of our General Branimir Glavas. And I wonder if Mr. Shecks would ask here, when he said those sign words without a cramp on his face that an action plan should locate, identify, arrest and transfer...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79105	Your Honor, that's not the subject of the law. Please talk about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79106	The topic is war crimes and the subject is sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79107	Don't go off topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79108	Don't distract me in my act. This is my time and you can't take it away from me and remember it once. We haven't had two verbs here since the first two, not to mention these verbs significant, you know, and here's why, I wonder why when it's been known for years and when it's been known since the arrest of Tihomir Purda, the trial, no one mentions Mr. Marić Veljak, who got 12 years two weeks in court in Belgrade. When it was announced that the verdicts or indictments had arrived, this 44th day, but a few hours before that on the Croatian ballots, the radio, television was told one news that it seemed to me that in Zadar or Sibenik was tried by one of the enemy armies, to say the Serb aggressor who committed a crime in Shkabrnja. Isn't that right, Mrs. Lovrin? That was a couple of hours ago. It's like we're making up for each other. Well, that's amazing. Now in pre-election time instead of dealing with and designing what the Croatian future will be and how to provide these children with work, apartment, a better life, we are here all morning with one thing like this that I don't say isn't important, but here's one that's withdrawn since '92. Which is why Croatia did not seek through its Ministry of Justice, through its prosecution, when it already has a list of several hundred defence attorneys, that Serbia delivers evidence if it already has, if not some one already takes off the agenda at the request of Croatia and Croatian diplomacy and the Croatian Ministry of Justice and the Croatian State's Attorney to remove themselves from the agenda such as this to say non-bulful accusations and such things that are happening. Unfortunately, it's either incompetence or this reminder of the Croatian dojonica policy, as the song says slavery, I really don't know. The HDSSB club has already declared through Mr Buric that it is in the context of this legislative proposal, but all of this should be warned. How is it possible that Croatia, which no soldiers have crossed Serbia's border, has even agreed that Serbian investigators in Croatia are investigating Croatian defenders. As it is possible that no grenades and bullets have been fired on Serbia, such agreements are being negotiated between the two state's attorneys. How is it possible for someone to judge Croatian defenders who were also in camps in Serbia, Srijemska Mitrovica, Stajica and where everything is not. Well, as if Croatia was committing aggression, not defending their courtyard, their Vukovar, its Borovo settlement, every step, every street. We know what it was like to be the ones who were in the war back then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79109	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79110	Article 210(1) Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grubisic, I don't know which time you need an explanation, your company next to you. You keep putting it in my mouth and saying that I said the words of an action plan in relation to General Gotovina, identify, locate, arrest and transfer. I don't know which way to explain it to you, you've seen the documents, you've seen everything, that I've transmitted the content of the conclusion from the National Security Council's session, I've carried the conclusion this way. On a proposal from the Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader and the President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic, the National Security Council concluded that it obliges all security services to step up their activities aimed at identifying, locating, arresting and transferring General Gotovina to The Hague. So, to impute me that I am the author of this plan when you know very well, when a hundred times has already been proven and shown that I simply conveyed certain conclusions from the session of that National Security Council is extremely defamatory and I hope that you will finally give up one of these things because otherwise you will indeed have a very flattering title, as well as a representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79112	Very flattering title one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79113	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79114	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice-President under Articles 209 to 214 because what was last said is a threat to a representative by another representative. And what you said, Mr. Shakespeare, you were a man of your age when you conveyed the President's opinion, you could but you didn't want to say I won't say it. Unfortunately, you said it. You weren't a little baby to be persuaded to say what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79115	Thank you. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think we should go further with the injuries because we're not going anywhere because it's simply because you're just putting it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure isn't. Then give each other a line and that. Let's move on. Injury of the Rules of Procedure again. Honorable representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79116	My colleague Grubisic, I wasn't a little baby, not even now, so from that fact as if you were now at a press conference saying that such a law was passed at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. It's the same situation I was in. At a press conference where I, as president of the National Security Council, was asked what was at the meeting of the National Security Council, I said I had to draw conclusions as proposed by this president, you and those conclusions. So that's true, so give it once you understand and accept. What's bothering you so much that you don't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79118	Don't torture me, torture General Ante Gotovina, not torture me, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79119	Thank you. Don't throw it away. ... Thank you very much. ... /Upadica Grubisic: The Croatian people torture it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. But then it's up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Present and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79120	Thank you very much. So before I say a few words about the bill itself, let me read two very important things here, and I think we'll all agree on that in this assembly. Therefore, it is undeniable and justified that the right of the Republic of Croatia as an independent and sovereign democratic state regulates economic, legal and political relations on its territory. No country has the right to adopt laws or otherwise to interfere with issues which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of each sovereign state. This applies without exception to all legal areas including the area of criminal law. Secondly, the Republic of Croatia has a legitimate right and a duty to protect both its sovereignty and its independence and its citizens from the prosecution committed by the judicial authorities that are implemented under a law that constitutes inadmissible interference in matters of exclusive jurisdiction of each State in a manner unknown and unacceptable in international law. So that's the constitutional basis and I think, the basis for the debate in this bill. And the basic remarks on the very proposed text of the law from so far some discussions result in a three-point summary. First, that this law is contrary to the two state attorneys' agreement and that it will damage regional co-operation. Second, to oppose the principle of universality. And the third to introduce a direct and indirect principle of irresponsibility. So, avoiding guilt for specific crimes. With careful reading of this Act, in particular paragraph 2 of Article 1 and paragraph 3 which refers to the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Hague tribunal, it is clear and clear that this Agreement will not only raise questions, but it may actually be brought about by what is said on the legal basis that it continues, but in the right way by internationally accepted standards it can be realised. When we talk about universality issues, this principle should always be put in place and looked at in relation to the criminal law of the principle of territoriality on the one hand, and absolutely not all of those, all those opinions, all those views that go towards the basis of this law that anyone in any sense can avoid criminal responsibility for the crimes committed. But I repeat when it is based on evidence on rights, legally based on the standard of criminal law of the Republic of Croatia as such can not only prove itself but also process it. And why run away from that fact. So we have implemented a reform of criminal law, in fact harmonised criminal and procedural and material law, we have succeeded in chapters 23 with all the standards not only of the European Union, but these are the provisions of our criminal and material law are absolutely the right ones to say the modern norms on the basis of which we should actually insist that criminal proceedings take place. Why do we run away from it when he insists on this law? Yeah, all right, all the charges, the evidence, all the legal acts. They are valid if, according to our Penal Code, they were procedurally material and when the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia again in the process of assessing that this is all right. Can we accept the fact that, in contrast to ours, it was procedural, it was a material criminal right that we could go down to our shoulders and say well, it's not in accordance with our regulations, but we're in the realisation of an agreement, so we can take it silently. I think we can't accept it quietly, and I'm thinking that even in this debate, the barata with professional expressions that are diametrically opposite and that we should treat them. One is the evidence, the other is the indictment. One is some kind of legal act, and the other is an indictment which is handed down to someone on the plea, and that someone is in a situation, so to write a complaint. That indictment can become a power of attorney. One thing is, and this indictment is written, actually signed on the basis of evidence and the procedure conducted by the former JNA, that is, the judicial bodies of the former JNA. What if we're regulating it now with the law that these situations can't happen, they can't be repeated. To whom such a provision of the law, to whom such a norm is bothered to implement any agreement or to carry out any prosecution for specific offences, based on the provisions of criminal procedural, criminal material law. I don't think so. I really think there's a lot about it and it politicizes for these and those reasons. I don't think a lot of people who talk about this law didn't have it in their hands, didn't read it. I would also like to see, in the far line, the professions and the criminal law departments say about this law, especially for the second article of the first one. We had a lot to talk about. We've heard a lot about that, too. It's final. So I absolutely support this bill. This law regulates in a good, precise way something that has so far been regulated by the basis of the Agreement, based on agreement, based on cooperation. But when you have two entities regardless of who it's about, so this relationship is established by means of cooperation, the basis of the conversation, the basis of the agreement will always come into place if something is not precisely defined by law that it can come to such an interpretation or such an interpretation. But in any case, we cannot accept that the indictment may be brought in court, any in the Republic of Croatia based on the fact and legal substrate of the former SFRY, the former JNA and its judicial authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79121	Thank you. We have next in line for the distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are in serious moments for Croatia, at times when we will sign an accession agreement for our country's full membership in the European Union in two months. Today, we solemnly remembered and marked 20 years of Croatian independence, 20 years of forgiveness with the former state, with the late Yugoslavia and its disintegrated army. That country certainly doesn't sleep peacefully. The deceased are told of the rest of eternity, but this one has 45 years of oppression of Croatian independence, 45 years of looting of Croatia, and since the Homeland War, thousands of defenders, innocent civilians who have laid down their lives for Croatia and their lives, have built their peace into the future for 2 months of European Croatia, I am sure that today our citizens who follow the Croatian Parliament and their children have reasons to be sad, but also to be happy. They must be sad because they don't have happy Christmases, they don't have happy Easters, they don't have their parents, they don't have a firm hand at home, they don't have anyone to pat them on the shoulder and they say you're wrong or you're right. Today it is a shame that on this side of the SDP and the opposition is an empty assembly, it is empty when the interests of Croatia are protected, when the interests of Croatian citizens, our citizens who live freely and independently and peacefully and healthyly thanks to those who are no longer with us. And that is why it is good that there is a defence minister in the assembly today, who certainly knows and understands the lives of those who have given their heart and soul as their own Croatia. Today we are talking about a law declaring the corrupt legal acts of the judicial bodies of the former state, the former Yugoslavia and its army that destroyed Croatia, but the Republic of Serbia that should become a candidate for full membership in the European Union. We, as a serious sovereign European state, will surely support Serbia's membership in the European Union, but we also call on the country as our neighbour not to assume on its legal property and its back something that does not belong to the country, which is to be dealt with by the judicial systems of the former members of Yugoslavia. She is not the heir to Yugoslavia, she is only the heir to something bad, and something she took away from Croatia, which is property and all that was worth in Croatia for 45 years. With this law, we are politically answering the Republic of Serbia to the law that that country has also passed. With this law, we want, first of all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have legal certainty, to have constitutionally guaranteed the right to their freedom in the country and to have the right to live peacefully and respect Croatia's laws within our sovereignty. With its moves and its launch of indictments, the Republic of Croatia has found itself in an unenviable situation, which is why it is necessary to pass this law. It was in a situation where the Republic of Serbia is looking for certain treatment against Croatian citizens on the basis of no internationally justified criminal law, not a single evidence, but as if it were something that wanted to psychologically upset Croatia's stability at a very important moment, which is the moment when our country enters the European Union. This law lays down some new principles of international criminal law, which is that it can be hacked into the legal system of sovereignty of another country on the basis of unfounded evidence, based on non-existent international contracts, based on something that does not exist in international law. That's this High House, this Reverend Parliament cannot allow. We are a bold sovereign state, we recognise international agreements, we recognise all the agreements we have signed with all the former neighbours, with all the countries and so on with the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of a request from the Croatian State Attorney's Office, the Republic of Croatia, its judicial authorities acted in accordance with international law, internal legal order, but with long statutes and thus with the Charters of the United Nations. Our country has done nothing wrong on this point, has not broken any laws, no international acts, but acted in accordance with what a sovereign democratic and European state is doing. This law is a necessity, this law is not a pre-election law, because everything we've done in this House in recent months has been well done, they've declared all those who are not presently present, these empty benches have been declared pre-election. So this is a message to the Croatian public that is thought to protect Croatian interests, and what is meant when it is intended to send a clear message to all those who today for 20 years from Croatia's independence in the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's enough of that, we're aware of our seriousness, we're aware of the moment we're passing this law and we're aware that we're a European country. I call on Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to act in accordance with international law on all those who are innocent, and on those who have not violated any international law by any of their actions. No one can be arrested at the border unless they're responsible for anything. The times of fear have passed, the times have passed to fear where we should walk and what we should say, this is a moment for Croatia very seriously, I support this law, this law is the cornerstone of legal security and stability, and this law is the law for the protection of our citizens, the protection of the Republic of Croatia, and the protection of all those and their families who laid their lives in the foundations of independent and independent Croatia. I don't think co-operation is compromised and well-intentioned neighbors will understand that best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79123	Thank you very much. That was the same thing 20 years ago when it came to national interests. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the line, and all I've heard from my colleague Salapic is that I really give full support to your presentation, and I'm actually signing it. You talked so nicely about everything, and what I wanted to add to this left hand side, SDP, is exactly what Mr. Chairman said, so on June 25th we know what happened in the Croatian Parliament, they were not as well. We know that, but the Croatian people do. They have no honesty, no responsibility, and the patriotism that we all carry in our hearts is not. To them patriotism means nothing, their patriotism is elsewhere, they are looking for it beyond the borders of Croatia, and we are bringing it here today as you have said this law to protect the interests of both Croatian defenders and, as our president said, thank God we will no longer go to Serbia or anywhere, because this is a free and democratic Croatia of all of us Croats and patriots. Well, congratulations again, fellow Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79125	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79126	Thank you very much, Vice President. For a short time, MP Sumrak said that when Croatia was created, it was an abandoned assembly, and it was not intended to support Croatia's independence. Fellow MPs are still empty today, and Croatian people and Croatian citizens need to know. And a few months ago on the Committee on the Constitution when we wanted to raise the rights of Croatian defenders to constitutional level, there were no members of the opposition on that committee, and they said they had no information about it. Today they are not here, I believe that they should never be in power in Croatia, because the Croatian people deserve a responsible, honorable and fair government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is our Government, we are sitting here today because of our citizens, and empty benches are both empty heads and empty hearts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79127	Thank you. Susana Bilić Wardic, replica. But I'd like to ask you, when you answer for a replica or correct, give a sign, and not you lift, lower, no one sees. Well, that's what you have to do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Salapic, I agree with you, and here's what the vice president said, is not a reminder of these blanks, first of all, just to look back at these empty benches in the left part of the assembly, it wasn't just 20 years ago, but through, it wasn't a correction of the incorrect quote, but it was complemented, over all these 20 years whenever there was debate about the national interests of the Republic of that chair, these chairs, these benches, they were empty. My colleague Salapic, otherwise supporting everything you said, seems to me that today most of the MPs and those who spoke here on the left, as if they were not reading the law, but were reading the portals and daily newspapers. But I am even more surprised by today's senior Croatian official who said that by passing this law any co-operation with the Republic of Serbia would be interrupted. I'm surprised, Coli Salapic, and I'm interested in your position as a lawyer and as an expert in this area, what is it about when the Republic of Serbia's adoption of its laws put the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia at risk, i.e. you gave jurisdiction that it does not have to judge the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and afterwards, as a democratic, highly civilized European state has gone and talked, negotiated, concluded agreements and acted on them, why would I find this statement by a senior Croatian official more strange than he has read what it says in the explanation on the page. 5 in which cases do not apply, to which cases these provisions of this law do not apply. And I think it is also a bad message to the Croatian public, and I welcome what the Croatian government has announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79129	Thank you very much, time. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79130	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bilić Vardić is now talking about this law as well. No cooperation will be interrupted, no legal basis is compromised, no agreement with the Republic of Serbia, this is our political response. The Croatian Parliament gives political answers to acts that are not in line with international applicable criminal law, with international regulations, by meddling in the sovereignty of another country. This is a clear message to any future EU candidate from the future European state in 2 months to behave in accordance with international law and that no Croatian citizen is going to be able to do what happened to these indictments that came to Croatia in a way that is not known in modern international law. There must be no fear for any citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and also our country guarantees the safety of all neighbours, all EU members and so on to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we will not do such acts unfounded by any law, nor by any international law. We are a serious, legal, sovereign, modern state and we will not allow any of our neighbors with fear to cross our borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79131	Thank you. We are continuing an individual debate, and now it's up to the distinguished representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Why is this law, why is this law, what are its scope, and can this law contribute to the purpose provided for in the bill? First of all, I would say that this law, the proposal for this law, is a response to aggression only through other means, a judicial aggression not armed but judicial aggression against the Republic of Serbia. When did this 2003 Serbian law happen? In 2003, in the spring of 2003, the coalition government of the SDP, Foreign Minister Tonino Picula. Croatian Ambassador to Belgrade from the SDP. And rather than following the legislative action of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the parts of the former South, and warning that when laws are passed that are not done by Croatia, they have not been organised, they have not followed it, and that legislation was passed that Croatia did not officially know that the Serbian Parliament adopted it in 2003, with which Serbia usurped itself to be The Hague court. The law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda has given the International Criminal Court in The Hague powers and powers to prosecute everything for war crimes, war crimes, war rules, whatever parts of the former Yugoslavia. Serbia takes its own Article 2 and 3 of that law to take the right, instead of the Hague court, to judge, prosecute, prosecute any citizen of any state of the republic resulting from the collapse of the SFRY. So either a citizen of Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH, Croatia, Slovenia, regardless of where the work was done. Whether it has been started in any region of the Republic
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79133	Your Honor, I must warn you that they are warning you from the technique not to be heard in the phonogram and that you need to turn more towards the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79134	About the goods of the technique, yes well. Thanks, we'll take care of the tech, yeah. So, Serbia takes the right to prosecute for crimes... I'm just looking at you for aesthetic reasons. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That he'd be persecuting... For aesthetic and other reasons, it will prosecute for crimes provided for by the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes statutes and some other crimes committed since 01.01.1991. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All, regardless of who the victims are, who the perpetrators are, whose citizenship they are. So it's taken there, usurping such activity. If Croatia had known, it should have known, but which, the SDP authority should have warned Croatia and Croatia should have reacted then. In 2010, Serbia activated two articles and applied the two articles, 2nd and 3rd, 01st.01.2010. At that time, the Purda case begins soon and the hunting of BISH General Divjak in Vienna, Ganic, member of the war presidency of the BIH in London, Purda here, is recognised as Kosovo, Serbia is preparing arguments for the anti-genocide charge against Croatia, and in order to have valid arguments, charges of genocide against Croatian citizens should be reactivated, and then there is a reactivate of these 92 indictments. Years, until reactivated where I charge myself with a 10-year indictment. Column 92. For years, together with Ivan Vekic, that we are inciting genocide. Branimir Glavas as defence secretary in Osijek, Tomislav Mercep as secretary of defence in Vukovar, our four, four gang members joined together to create a belief of 40 members of the National Guard Assembly, the MUP, the Croatian defenders, all of them from Vukovar, several of them from..., so mostly all of Vukovar that we were encouraging them, encouraged them to commit crimes aimed at evicting and scaring Serbs from all over Croatia, and, in particular, with a reference to the Vukovar municipality so that they were carried out over Serbs terror intimidation, threats, etc., so if this fails as plan A. to then go into the realisation of plan B. these are physical liquidations. And that's what's in that indictment. Why now the question, it calmed down for 20 years, no one took those charges seriously, the SFRY fell apart, Yugoslavia fell apart, defeated and defeated JNA disappeared and suddenly the indictments that I and President Tudjman and others got 92. In years, I received them as vice-president of the Croatian Government, with intelligence activities of Croatia, I received these charges no one responded to. Why are they doing this now, why are they going now? They went to the same place, looking for a ratio of guilt on the Croatian side, that somehow this balance was shared for all those reasons that I was saying earlier. The question, which is whether this law can protect Croatian defenders if Serbia decides to prosecute them, prosecute them, accuse them and judge them in Serbia or be arrested and handed over to Serbia by some evictions. This law cannot, this Law has another purpose, another goal, to be one strong pressure, to be one lever of pressure on Serbia to give up on that of its Law, of these provisions of Article 2. And three. A law setting itself up as a general judicial officer in the entire area of the former Yugoslavia, that Croatia should adopt this law together with Macedonia, together with Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with Montenegro, and also press Serbia to give up the law because it is in the greatest breach of international law. This is therefore the purpose and the basic goal that this Law can achieve, and I believe that it will be achieved. Therefore, all these agreements and arrangements were between the two prosecutions for why the Serbian Prosecutor's Office brought them down, it was the Bosnian case and some others who had suddenly accumulated these charges because they had decided to get certain goals in the judicial aggression against Croatia. No one tells what Emile and others were saying to continue this judicial co-operation between the two ministries and between the two prosecutors, to get rid of it, to clean those tails from 91. And 92. Years, but this law should be passed to show that we are a sovereign state, to protect our citizens and that we will not allow Serbia to be a judicial officer and to persecute Croatian citizens worldwide. Not only in Serbia, but to hunt them all over the world on the basis of a warrant. That's why this law needs to be passed and passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79135	We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Dinko Buric here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations made by Vice President Seks and, in connection with the claim, that it is an exclusive responsibility for not knowing about this Law that Serbia has passed since 2003. Years in that former government. Since then, it has been 8 years and no one can convince anyone that this government has not been held as much responsibility over the past 8 years as the previous Government has when this Law was passed in Serbia. In the eight years that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has worked, how many ambassadors have changed, how many officials, Mr. Shakespeare should have known this government these eight years. But it's no wonder, you're so constantly surprised, so surprised, so much as a level of wonder, you show that you look more like a strange beak. I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79137	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative and vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79138	This Regulation shall enter I don't want to be weird about the beak, it's a compliment to me, right to be weird about the beak are considered the elements of some legal systems and laws that are joined by hybrids of two legal systems. That's one compliment when it's said to be a strange beaker right. I understand that you didn't know that it wasn't your area after all. Just to say this fellow, you have been a part of this government in the last eight years, in the last three years you have not, you have been part of that government, you have also been a representative at the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Democratic Community, you have supported the government, the strongest who supported the government and President Ivo Sanader was Dinko Buric, I remember these fiery flames of speech, so that you have ascended to the stars as a genius, as the messiah of Ivo Sanader. So come on, turn around a little bit of the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79139	You'll get your word. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79140	... Article 209 [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Dear Mr. Vice President, I don't know what's really suffering you, a high dose of amnesia. You constantly show a high dose not only of nervousness but also of unforgettableness. You have just told a great lie that I was a representative at the Croatian Parliament, and I became a representative of the Croatian Parliament on 24 September 2010 as Deputy General Branimir Glavas of Croatia, so that was the first time I sat down in a representative bench. Given that I was a system and part of the HDZ, it's quite true, I'm not ashamed of my membership in HDZ until the time Ivo Sanader took it. And what you've done to HDZ at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79141	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79142	Here, I'll finish now. It has nothing to do with the 1990s HDZ. And finally here's just to give you one exclusive news for those of you who didn't know. It's not three years, it's October 8th, so on Saturday, we're going to be the 6th anniversary of the HDZ draft.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79143	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Please, this is no longer any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest we stop it and move on. We still have one individual debate, so I suggest we give Josip Djakic our word. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is a law that is certainly quality and necessary to remove all charges coming from Serbia from the account of Croatian defenders, including former ministers and officials of the Croatian government. We certainly won the battle for Croatia independence in the war, but the legal battle today must also be done by lawyers in order for both international law and the law and judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia to function throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and towards their citizens. The proposal for this law prescribes that all the legal acts of the former JNA of its judicial authorities and the judicial authorities of the former SFRY, as well as the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia relating to the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia, which are suspected, accused or convicted of crimes against the values of protected international law of conduct in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is clearly defined that they cannot be collected. Thank you very much, colleagues for their patience, that they cannot be collected documents by force, threat, imprisonment, camp, be at any courts under international law a relevant factor in proving someone's guilt. It is clearly defined by a UN declaration that speaks about it, but Serbia has given itself the right, and the necessity is at this moment to pass this law is to break up with such falsified indictments that come upon the burden of Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens have their own country, have their own constitution, have their own laws, have their own judicial bodies and would even agree with the Serbian saying that a judicial aggression against the Republic of Croatia, i.e. To her citizens. I believe that there will be no freezing of relations or termination of cooperation, as some colleagues in the opposition claim, and who do not want to support it in fact. I believe that this will truly and consistently protect the Republic of Serbia's citizens, protect the Homeland War, prove clearly to its judicial authorities someone's guilt or innocence and that the Republic of Serbia will respect the laws and norms adopted in the Republic of Croatia and that it will not be able to act territorially because there are no adequate standards and any legal means to do so. The agreements signed certainly do not guarantee and allow no one to be exposed. No higher court from Belgrade is allowed to prosecute and press charges against Croatian citizens for the Homeland War, as if Croatian citizens had crossed over the Danube and come to the Republic of Serbia, as if we had fought in Belgrade, as if their territorial integrity had been compromised. So they act as if Belgrade authorities are still in charge of Croatia. Well it was interrupted years ago, it was interrupted by the decision on secession and decision on independence and independence for which today the Croatian Parliament also made it clear how it was and how it happened. It is prescribed that the competent judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia shall not act on the pleas of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia for legal aid in criminal cases if the applicants refer to the acts referred to in Article 1 of the proposed law or criminal offences referred to in the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the State Authorities in the war crimes proceedings, since the conduct of them is contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and damages its sovereignty and security. Such an attack on 40 Croatian citizens is certainly assessed as an attack on the sovereignty and security of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore it was necessary not to pass this law, it was necessary to bring the declaration that the Government today is preparing and giving in its procedure and we will certainly demonstrate this way that we are credible and that we have legal norms and acts that are in line with the international legal system which has confirmed both for the conclusion of the negotiations and the closure of Chapter 23. I believe that no one will ever think to oppose it again because I also saw on the Committee on War Veterans where we unanimously adopted this bill, where fellow Kotromanovic, who is not in the debate today, is sorry that he did not clearly express his position on this. There he voted in favour of this law, I hope he will vote in the future because he is also a Croatian defender and should have an understanding of his friends and comrades. All those who oppose are likely to continue to want Belgrade to be their capital, the High Court in Belgrade to be their competent authority, and all those who oppose actually have no valid reasons but have pure politics. I would like to point out that my comparison or putting into the same basket of individuals who oppose the adoption of this law certainly stems from the attitude that they identify themselves with the executioners of the Ovčara, with the Chetniks, the aggressors and all those who participated, planned or committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia should not be disturbed because in these indictments they were written in blood and the lives of those people who suffered were written under the coercion of beatings, charges against Croatian defenders. And that's what's frightening that the vice president of the government doesn't vote on that law in the government, find solutions and possibilities to justify his disapproval, actually in translation, lawyers might say it better, protect those who wrote those charges or protect those who have beaten, killed, raped, imprisoned, and coerced the signatures of those who today are one of those on the charge. Purda as a man who was supposed to get the State Prize because he was so human that he wore a Yugoslav corporal to the hospital and saved his life to the wounded, they shut him down, because they beat him until he signed, that they slaughtered him or killed him. Well, of course, the Cyrillic written statements gave them, signed, or we'll liquidate you. That when such acts are protected, surely they are identified with the one who committed them. I can't call him otherwise, nor have I any reason to justify him. Therefore, I believe that this law will remove further attacks and aggression on Croatian defenders, that in the further sequence, the legal system and cooperation will certainly function, the exchange of data on war crimes between prosecutors or ministries will be in a better position, but not staged, not unlawfully or aggressively, without arguments to Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, independence and integrity of the Republic of Croatia. This cannot afford either the Parliament or the Government or any judicial body, not to act or help those who are actually at risk of these charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79145	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First, she's a respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79146	I had no intention of spreading the debate, but your mention of Belgrade and mentioning the counterfeited indictments prompted me to try to read you a letter quickly from the government of the Republic of Serbia to the government of the Republic of Croatia on 4 June 1991. So the Serbian government writes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia: "We are familiar with the dangers posed by the civilian population and the City of Dubrovnik, which is part of the history of the Serbian and Croatian people as well as the magnificent monument of the world's cultural heritage. Your decision to place in the city of invaluable historical cultural value your paramilitary formations, the Black Legion and numerous foreign mercenaries, and to start from there armed attacks on the settlements in Herzegovina and Boki Kotorska represents an extremely uncivilized, inhumane and unworthy act. We hope that you have become aware of this yourself and that you will make the necessary effort to prevent these armed formations from breaking up Dubrovnik as you have done with many other cities. I give you this invitation to prevent the destruction of Dubrovnik. The government of the Republic of Serbia expresses strong confidence that all members of the Yugoslav People's Army, the territorial defence unit, will make every effort to preserve this historic city." So much for hypocrisy. I think this is a letter from President Dragutin Zelenovic, who was Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, a school example of hypocrisy. I said this more for phonograms, more for history and more for reminders of what was going on and what could be expected, what could be expected and what might be expected from that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79147	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, this is real proof of the hypocrisy and perfidence that Serbia was doing back then, and it's working today. Lie, invent and justify your aggression by this letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia then in '91. In the year when the aggression and destruction of Dubrovnik began, when Dubrovnik's shelling of the Prime Minister started with such a false panphlett, the government of the Republic of Croatia warned. What we can expect today, I only see that Bajic remains the one who trusts Serbian investigators, who trusts Serbian state authorities and opposes this law and that is what I cannot understand. This is evidence. All those charges, open the Internet on the pages, see what it says there. Well, that's ridiculous nonsense, fiction and perfidious pranks. That's the only name I can call them. This is evidence of another Cyrillic signed by the president of the then Serbian government that they wanted their attack on Dubrovnik, turn their destruction of Dubrovnik into a Ustasha Legion attack on Dubrovnik. Well, that's something to be disgusted by the whole world, the world's public internationally as they were perfidious then, as they are today. For this reason, we are passing this law today, which is why it is necessary to act in all state bodies in order to remove such perfiduous inventions, plantings, lies and deceptions coming from Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79149	Thank you. Second replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what I wanted to join just one. You see, fellow Djapic, you're a defense attorney and there are a lot more defenders who are sure to watch this today. There's no one on this side of the SDP. You remember very well when the Government of SKH Ivica Racan handed over the weapons of territorial defense. There was no weapon. At that time, she left for mercy and mercy to the Croatian Yugoslavs and Serbian aggressors. That's after, not for the first time. Over 50 years of history many times, and until the independence of our Croatia we now have they wanted you, destroy it, take it, we have no interest. That's not our country. And that's how it's been repeated this year. But here is the law we pass, as you have said nicely in the protection of both defenders and patriots, and also of national interests, because we are entering the European Union proudly with our Homeland War, with our homeland, proud in our heart that we can say everywhere that we are Croats and, as the President and our Croatian language say, will be the component of the European Civilised Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79151	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you've reminded me well of those times of defense preparations. At the time when Croatia had a weapon of territorial defence, the order of the late Racan was handed over to the barracks of JNA. Back then, we had to re-procur, re-supply, arm ourselves and free ourselves from these same military facilities that the reservers came to and received the weapons of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And today, when they are not present in this debate, when they are not interested, they probably went away like all other chickens earlier because I believe that their behaviour is analytical, their behaviour is certainly against the desire, the will of Croatian citizens to end with this episode called the Homeland War but honestly and honestly not by planting, not by falsifying history, unequaling sacrifice and aggressor, not by forgetting that they did not want to even in this House when you reminded me of the Croatian flag, nor the Croatian coat of arms, and they called it then the same as the Serbs in this letter call it not Croatia but rather as a Ustasha and that they would not vote for secession and independence of the Republic of Croatia. That's when they left the Parliament. And today, when we discuss these forgeries, they leave Parliament. They're also forgers of history.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79153	Thank you. And we have another replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79154	My friend Djakic, I'd say some of them never woke up. When it comes to this law, I must mention two names. One is the name Vesna Bosanac, a woman who is a symbol of the defence, the suffering of Vukovar of Croatia. And to press charges against her would be equal, equally, if the Federal Republic of Germany had filed charges against a Jew in Warsaw's ghetto who stood up and defended himself and fought. You see, that couldn't have happened in one Germany because Germany was democracies. However, this can happen in Serbia because it neither strives to be a democratic state nor is it. That's what you can see from all this, and that's what I'm really worried about. Because when we talk about the regional co-operation I am for, I end up living in Bosnia and Herzegovina I care about peace and order and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be part of that package with Croatia in a peaceful, secure, prosperous Europe the next day. However, the same fates our people experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina by making official Banja Luka official Belgrade. How regional policy can be conducted, regional co-operation if it is not based on truth and respect for one another. But that's not happening. Finally, I am even more concerned that some of our institutions are also not waking up but are still asleep, or some of the people in them. Let us remember the great name, the great Croatian journalist of the late Gordan Lederer who was killed by a man who knew that a journalist, who knew how to shoot him with a sniper, would still boast that he had killed him. And after that, the courts in Croatia are all-powerful to liberate the killer and leave him alone. The courts in Croatia are all-powerful to liberate the killer and leave him alone and that man is a free man. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end, time.]] Therefore, my people this is a big problem not only outside the Republic of Croatia but also some heads and in the Republic of Croatia who do not know how to deal with neither the past nor the present, and it will damage such behaviour and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79155	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you're a colleague of mine. It is evident that the data collected so far is 71 of the procedure that the Republic of Serbia is leading towards Croatian citizens. In those 71 26, they were rejected as unfounded. We thought that they would then dismiss all these charges as unfounded because they were not allowed to apply them in the light of international law and the international declarations that had been made. There is no need to apply what is being extorted and thus to be judged. So we want to remove all of this, no pre-election pamphlets or anything. This was an emergency since they haven't taken one step so far to dismiss and all 71 charges they have. It had to be done by this law. The proposed law does not call into question the enforcement of obligations made by the Republic of Croatia by the Constitutional Law on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court. However, the adoption of the proposed law is an emergency in order to avoid inappropriate, inadmissible treatment against Croatian citizens and to protect their constitutional rights and legal interests by another country's body. That is why this law will certainly be voted in this House tomorrow and will certainly be applied as described in all the articles and will not violate any relations with the Republic of Serbia if they respect the legal institutions of the Republic of Croatia and wish to work with them further.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79157	Thank you. And finally, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I speak my last political speech in this sacred room after 20 years in front of an empty hall. I spoke in front of the full, but then my heart was full, and today, believe me, it's empty because we're passing a law by which we're going to ask the aggressor not to judge the victim in his own country, after 20 years of our Croatian state. And that's why I'm going to rise above the legal framework that we've been hearing about for several days and now a few hours, because I think that the legal framework in history, all history and all countries must fit into the political and real social frameworks in which these laws are passed, and we have laws that judge the victim by the aggressor in the area of the victim. It's definitely a mistake not rights, but politics, and it's a mistake we've all made in the past 20 years, because Serbia is an aggressor. What kind of aggressor? The dirty aggressor who killed more than 8,000 civilians in the Republic of Croatia, according to the records of a military headquarters led by an aggressor who destroyed and did war damage for $40 billion, an aggressor who destroyed up to the foundation of 6 hospitals which is an unprecedented crime in distant history, and such an aggressor today judges our defenders, and requires the processing of defenders from the Republic of Croatia. So who's to blame here? How can criminals judge a Vesni Bosnian? How can the heroine of the Homeland War, Vesna Bosnianac, experience being questioned by a Serbian investigator from Belgrade in a Croatian court, and we remain silent about it? Vesna Bosanac, who I mobilized 20 years ago, and today I suffer because she suffered a personal and family tragedy that unfortunately continues, crying and asking me if it's possible that a Serbian prosecutor will come from Belgrade and in my Vukovar that I defended will question me? And that's what happened. And of course we kept it quiet. Well, it was clear right away I said we can expect the next 40 and we've welcomed 40 charges about how it was against Vesna Bosnian. And if we don't pass this law, 400 new ones will follow us. And until when will we politicians allow such bad laws and contracts to make the victim suffer, the Croatian defender suffers? That would be about like the Nazis after the defeat of '45. Judged a British soldier in London, or that fascists after a historic defeat judged any soldier to be a member of the anti-fascist victory coalition. There's absolutely no historical difference. Then why are there legal differences? Why the charges now? Because the second stage of Serbian aggression is happening in Croatia. It happens through a memo... Number two, Mr. President, I see you're protesting, reading on the websites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can read it on the web pages and no one has ever denied it. According to the memo... 2 I quote Serbia sets the main goal of saving Serbia after all severe defeats and putting it in an equal position with neighbouring countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that memo, of course, methods are recommended, and the methods are exactly what we're discussing right now. The first method is to reduce Serbia's crimes as aggressor, and the second one to potentiate, prosecute and launch defence crimes on their own country's territory, and this applies to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the main arrow of the memorandum, and the main goal is to cloud its own crimes, and with these charges here, 40 Croatian citizens, Serbia is clouding its crimes. And that's why I don't agree that it's a legal issue, that's a political problem, because that's not what led to the right, that's what the laws that we politicians have produced have brought to this. And that's the burden we have on our soul. And that's why I have to ask myself, are we through these decades who have learned anything from behind us? Are we politically blind or are we politically deaf? Or we may be politically stupid, so we forgot when in Belgrade the Croatian husbands, '45, '46, '48, '50s, we forgot all that, and the one who forgets his history has to do it again today. And for this reason, I believe that today it is necessary to conclude that this law is a minimum that we can make to protect the victim, to protect the defender, to protect Croatia's integrity. The defeated aggressor does not prescribe criminal charges to the winner, never and nowhere does this happen to our Croatian state. And that's why we have to reach a consensus in Croatia and say Serbia is an aggressor, an aggressor who has to humbly admit his aggression and apologize, an aggressor who only from that position can make peaceful co-existence with his victims who until yesterday have been slaughtered, raped and imprisoned. Until we reach that agreement, and I'm afraid we'll have a hard time achieving it in Croatia, so far we'll have discussions on our laws, our international agreements with Serbia, and the problems much more over these laws and above these contracts. The problem is in our heads, in our hearts, in our politics. And that's why my message to the rest of you has to revise this lie about history and the message is that we don't poison the future to spend the hygiene of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79159	Thank you. And now we have three more replicas. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr. Hebrang for your presentation, and I would just like to look at him in a way that I actually quote here recently on the current hour of Mr. Minister Karamark's thought, which he said when we asked what was wrong with the processing of communist crimes, which is by no means different from any other crimes, no less valuable, but even more extensive, brutal and more difficult, then Mr. Karamarko said if you remember unfortunately in Croatia there is no political consensus on the issue yet. He wanted to say except for one party that is asking these questions, which raises these questions, there are still those in Croatia who put all this under the carpet and do not look back on it. For me, it's an absolute link between what you're talking about, between this law that we're now bringing against what we're actually fighting for, which is why we're making the law and those attitudes. So, regardless of whether it's this or that national sign. And certainly incomprehensible, it's unacceptable, I know that people don't like to talk about it, avoid talking about it, but the stones will burn. The former president cannot give an interview in the Belgrade newspaper and accuse President Tudjman as another man of responsibility in the war in these areas. It's sad, it's pathetic, and we've assured this president, among other things, that he has for life, I don't know everything that goes with him from insurance to what. And such a statement should call on such a type and take away everything that it has, rather than suffering that terror and the arbitraryness and indifference and work directly against the Croatian state, and from the position of the former president. Well, that's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79161	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79162	Thank you very much. Honored counterpart Bagaric is an excellent link between the crimes of Serbia's aggressor and communist crimes because the victim is, in the end, always the Croatian citizen who wants nothing more than his own homeland, equality in that country and equality with others, and he never achieved it, so here we are now after the Homeland War. And for this reason, this link is very good, as is a good link to the statement of unfortunately the former president, unfortunately the president of not former Mr Mesic, who accused Franjo Tudjman and put him alongside Slobodan Milosevic as the cause of the war. But it's not Mesic's fault, for God forgives him, but he doesn't know what he's doing. He ends Croatian history because of his hatred and revenge for Tudjman. But it's all our fault that no conviction of his statement came out of the Republic of Croatia. So to repeat, it's our fault, not him, because he doesn't know what he's doing, because there's not a single conviction from the Republic of Croatia of that statement. So it's our fault, and we shouldn't be looking for the culprits in other people's ranks, but ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79163	Thank you. Second replica, Ivan Škaričić, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with dr. Hebrang said that there is one continuity of Serbian politics and that it will certainly continue to be related to the accusations that are going towards the Homeland War defenders. And it's nothing more than equating aggressors and victims because Serbia is using its position as an internationally recognised state. And I believe that the politics of our Croatian must find an adequate answer to that. However, I would like to point out here how much about Serbia's behaviour today, the official Serbia. In 1942 there was a crime in the village of Gata in... The Republics, Omisko zazade, where the Chetniks of Pop Đujic, and under Mana Rukvic's command, and under the patronage of Italian fascists who brought them to that area were killed by 96 people, women, and among them by children from 8 months and a year of age. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And '46. Drazi Mihajlovic, among other things, was tried in Belgrade for the crime, and we know that he was sentenced to death. No one has ever admitted involvement by official Serbia or apologized for the crime. This year, we had a case that the Italian ambassador had come to Gata, and was also invited Serbian, and apologized to the Croatians, the Croatian people and the people of the village of Gata for the crime. Listen to me, my colleagues and colleagues, the Italian ambassador, this is news for Europe. However, this was not practically mentioned in our media. And on our television, it was 10 seconds without being mentioned. So you see, the multilayer is this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79165	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79166	Thank you very much, fellow Scissor, for the opportunity to discuss this a little more here in this small hour. But I'd say again it's our fault that the victims of Serbian aggression didn't have an apology, we're to blame for hearing about the excuses of those who committed crimes decades ago, and we didn't get an apology from those who did the same atrocities 15 or 18 years ago. Why are we to blame? Because we haven't prosecuted any more murderers of 8,000 civilians. I repeat, I don't know how many times you won't hear that quote from the Serbian aggressor killed 8,000 civilians. It's more than a soldier, it's the first war in a recent history I've ever followed and analyzed in which more civilians were killed than soldiers. How many criminal charges have we filed against those perpetrators, and we know who shot the ship... we know who shot Dubrovnik, we know who shot Sisak, Karlovac, Zadar, etc. How many charges have we filed? Not a single or a minor number. How many charges have we brought against those who shelled Croatian hospitals which is the biggest violation of the Geneva Conventions? And we know the names of the commanders who fired at both the Paki hospital and the ship's, etc. We haven't filed any charges. So when we look for the culprit, please let us turn to ourselves and correct our views, not the attitudes of those who do not love Croatia because they will never change their attitudes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79167	Thank you. And Branko Box's esteemed representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Professor Hebrang, I think it's important that in the end what you said is now related to the number of civilian casualties. I also come from this area where 235 civilians were killed in the area of the former Benkovac municipality. Apart from Zorana Banic, no one has been convicted of any crime. On the other hand, Pupovac spoke today on behalf of the SDSS club and, of course, mentioned civilian victims, but exclusively Serbian nationality. I'd like my colleague Pupovac to speak the same way since he was born just like me in Benkovec and those victims. So he can't get over the mouth to cross the number of 235 civilians, and it's very zealous to mention the victims on the other side. Only two civilians of Serbian nationality, not only but statistics, is that two civilians of Serbian nationality were killed in the area of the former Benkovac municipality. One of the works that has been committed is known who has done it, people have been punished for many years, and for this second act you don't know. It is truly amazing that, with so many returnees, no one knows anything and how these murders happened. It's for the Guinnes Book of Records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79169	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79170	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, about 1,000 missing people have been buried in caves in Croatia, and those who killed and buried them live with us share this life with us, and do not want to discover even that they would allow them not to respect the victims but to respect those families who suffered because of these victims. And again, we're wondering who's to blame, we're to blame ourselves for bringing in an abject that's so elastic that it can easily be misused and now I'm going to say something that's blasphemous, there's no correcting the past, or what I call hygiene history without correcting the Abolition Act. Under this Law, many war criminals hide themselves under an umbrella under the rain, smile at us, live with us, share this fate, eat Croatian bread, and do not recognize what they have done. Correction of the Abolition Act is the only option for the hygiene of history.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79171	Thank you. And we have five minutes on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79172	Dear Mr Vice President, since it has been announced that there will be a point on the agenda and a point on the government's proposal for a declaration of cooperation, it is obvious that this issue of Croatian defenders and Serbian indictments will still have opportunities to speak, so I will give up this final word because we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss it. However, let me finally say something about the discussion of Professor Hebrang’s esteemed representative. After this debate of yours, Mr. Hebrang, I must say that I am sorry that you have not gone out with such opinions before, but it is still nice to have the strength to say what has been said here in the Croatian Parliament several times, many times talked by other representatives, including the HDSSB representative, when it comes to what we ourselves have done and our part of the blame for the situation in which the Croatian defenders are located, first of all I think about the Law of Abolition. You said well, many of those who crashed and burned and slaughtered in Croatia today do not only walk freely to Croatia, some of them unfortunately also sit in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79173	I thank and give my thanks to Minister Davorin Mlakar at the Ministry of Administration for finalising the proposal's final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, much has been said in the debate, there has been criticism of a relatively short law, unfortunately all those who have criticised him had no patience or will to stay and at least to discuss some of the remarks that they have made in their speeches. That's why I would once again repeat what led the government to go with a solution like this. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also aware of those Maxes which were claimed that the kingdom did not prescribe the laws of the Kingdom and therefore proposed a Law that only applies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, neighbouring countries are passing laws extending their jurisdiction to the territory of the entire former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, although they have no right to do so under international law, and that was why the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed a law that would in some way offend acts that come in certain matters from the Republic of Serbia or rather take away any power from them that we do not have to act in our bodies implementing the laws of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, those international agreements which the Republic of Croatia is party to or member of. It is also true that the Republic of Croatia has signed agreements at the level of the justice ministries with the Republic of Serbia and at the level of the state attorneyship of the Republic of Croatia or the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia, these agreements do not mean that the Republic of Croatia has no right to regulate the issues particularly relating to the Serbian legislation. Cooperation agreements between bodies do not mean that these agreements are fully implemented. And that is why the problem has arisen, 44 indictments, I will not talk about the names that have come to the Republic of Croatia and which must be followed by the authorities of the Republic of Croatia after the agreements have been signed and these agreements should be implemented. To make things more tragic on these charges is eight people who died in the meantime. Some indictments are charged with people who have already been tried once, and are then exchanged in the exchange of prisoners during the duration of the aggression in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why the government has decided that such a situation cannot be tolerated and that it will pass a law that will allow the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia not to act on such documents coming from the Republic of Serbia. And what is the basis for the government’s passing such a law? Not in what has often been said in the debate today about the date of recognition of the independence of the Republic of Croatia or of any other former republic of the former state. The former state has ceased to exist by the collapse and this has been established by international authorities, not the idea of the Republic of Croatia. The United Nations General Assembly Security Council Resolutions confirmed that the SFRY had fallen apart and that it had ceased to exist as a state and also confirmed that all the Republics of that former state were followers of that state, but none of the universal or exclusive followers. Which means that none of the former republics, now independent republics, have the right on behalf of the former state to carry out any procedure including the proceedings that we are talking about today, which is the conduct of the documents of the former SFRY, the former JNA of their prosecutions and all that has been found in these criminal cases. At the same time, the Government is aware that this is not enough because our laws act according to the principle of sovereignty and thank God for our adherence to international law and our commitments only in the Republic of Croatia. So today, he suggested that we make sure that something similar would not happen to us again if this problem were in some way internationalized. The only thing we could come up with, or the only instrument at our disposal, was the Government's proposal to bring a declaration to the Parliament, a declaration calling on the neighbouring country that what now makes it a violation of international rights to refrain from acting like all other civilised states, that I do not say that the sources of international law and legal principles are recognised by civilized peoples, so let the conclusions be drawn. And so I would only sort of argue what I have read and the proposal is not a long one, a declaration that should be called a declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia in which we would translate this into the following text. As a result of the fact that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is inalienable, indivisible and intolerable, reminding that all independent states are formed by the disintegration of the former SFRY of its legal follow-up to the consistent application of the principle of international rights contained in the UN Charter, the Declaration on the principles of international law on friendly relations and co-operation between the countries in accordance with the UN Charter and the Declaration of Inadmissibility of Intervention in State Internal Affairs. Continuing in order to take on international obligations and internal legal order of the processing and punishment of all war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide committed in the Republic of Croatia, and determined in the belief that no one should remain unpunished for the war crimes committed, crime against humanity and genocide, the Croatian Parliament brings the next declaration. By passing a law declaring its authorities responsible for the conduct of procedures for certain offences committed on the territory of the former SFRY, the Republic of Serbia has extended its jurisdiction to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, thereby injuring the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. With a view to building further cooperation, trust and good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Serbia, it calls on the Republic of Serbia to conclude an international treaty that will be subject to jurisdiction for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide in full accordance with the principles of international law. This is a proposal for a declaration that the Parliament should bring. It is an instrument that can be acted in international relations, to warn the neighbouring country that what it does is not in line with the international commitments and thus to come up with solutions that will naturally be satisfactory for both countries, with the fact that so far the adverse consequences of cooperation so far seem exclusively to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79175	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. By the way... tomorrow at 12 o'clock is scheduled to vote, so please all respond and be there. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with point 9, and this is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 884. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79176	Please colleagues and colleagues, now that we've checked to see if there's a quorum in the assembly, we'll move on. We'll wait a little while, don't walk away, but you're coming and you're not leaving, and after we determine the quorum, we'll decide on the points of the agenda we discussed and concluded. Please also prepare the keys so that they can be identified and so that they can determine who is present at this session of the Assembly. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues whom we have not seen for a variety of reasons lately, I am glad to see them, I am glad to see Branko Vukelić, I am pleased to see our dear Mark Turic, and then I am pleased to see Mr. Chehok, so Mr. Tankovic, and I am very pleased to see all of you, and I am pleased to see you so chili and good mood. Ladies and gentlemen, please engage to determine the existence or absence of a quorum. Score. Please, let's get on with Mrs. Shuica and I don't know who else is, and Mrs. Klaric didn't get involved either. It's not registered, check out the red one. Now let's see what the score is. 77 MPs and MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum and we're moving on to a decision. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Vulnerabilities, certain legal acts by the judicial bodies of the former JNA, the former SFRY, the Republic of Serbia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 889. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing. The debate was concluded, after the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of this amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please raise your hand? Here's most of them. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. I find that we have unanimously decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I ask Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic to explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79177	Thank you, Mr. President. On the final draft of the law, the Government submits an amendment to Article 3 which is amended and reads: The judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia will not act on the pleas of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia for legal aid in criminal proceedings if the conduct in such applications is contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and damages its sovereignty and security. The decision to act on such pleas shall be taken by the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-06-0.u79178	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate, I'm voting on the government's amendments, I'm asking you to raise your hands. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? One abstention. 76 for 1 abstention. I find that most of the votes we've accepted this. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the judicial bodies of the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia, please include and vote on the final draft of the law. Please make sure you're flushed where you're going. I don't know what you're up to, I'm just saying. Thank you. Did you check the results? Gurja. Is it now? I'm asking for a result. 72 MPs for, 5 abstentions, nothing against. This law has been passed.
